KNOX COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2017 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2017-2, passed 4-17-17; and
State legislation current through 2017 ALS #5
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
COUNTY OFFICIALS
OF
KNOX COUNTY, INDIANA
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                
President       Kellie Streeter
Vice President  Trent Hinkle
Commissioner    Tim Ellerman
                
COUNTY OFFICIALS
                
County Auditor  Lisa G. Madden
County Attorney Yvette Kirchoff
                
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2-2012
OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF KNOX COUNTY INDIANA
An Ordinance adopting the County of Knox, Indiana Code of Ordinances.
   Whereas, the County of Knox, Indiana is required by statute to adopt a Code
of Ordinances, and
   Whereas, it is the intent of Knox County, Indiana to comply with the laws of
the State of Indiana, and
   Whereas, it is in the best interest of Knox County, Indiana to adopt a Code
of Ordinances;
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED AND ESTABLISHED AS FOLLOWS:
   1.   That the Code of Ordinances attached to this ordinance is adopted as
the Knox County Code of Ordinances.
   2.   That any Ordinance that for any reason is not included in this Code of
Ordinances remains in full force and effect.
   3.   That the Code of Ordinances will be amended from time to time and those
amendments are to be considered as part of the Code.
   4.   That the Code of Ordinances will be placed on line for access by the
public.
   ADOPTED by the Knox County Board of Commissioners this 16th day of April,
2012.
Kevin Meyer  /s/                                            ATTEST:
Kevin Meyer, Knox County Commissioner
Jim Parish  /s/                                                Sharon Duke  /s/
                                       
Jim Parish, Knox County Commissioner      Sharon Duke, Auditor
Rowe Sargent  /s/                                   
Rowe Sargent, Knox County Commissioner
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the "Knox County Code",
for which designation "code of ordinances", "codified ordinances" or "code" may
be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate  meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of Knox County,
Indiana.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the county.
      COUNCIL. The County Council of Knox County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof
and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, renotified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the county exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
or Board of Commissioners refers to any board, bureau, commission, division,
department, officer, agency, authority or instrumentality of any government and
that name designation is incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective
date of that ordinance or subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or
liabilities placed with that entity are or were transferred to a different
entity; then the named board, bureau, commission, department, division,
officer, agency, authority or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the
ordinance at its effective date or not, means that correctly named entity or
the entity to which the duties, liabilities, powers and rights were
transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any
section shall not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability
incurred under the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides.
   (B)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings or to
the prosecution of offenses or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
         
31.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
         
32.   FINANCE AND FEES; PURCHASING
         
33.   ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
         
34.   COUNTY POLICIES
         
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30:  COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
30.01   Advisory Council on Polling Place Accessibility
   
30.02   Department of Redevelopment; Commission
   
30.03   Weapons of Mass Destruction Planning Task Force
   
30.04   Police Reserves
   
30.05   Community Corrections Advisory Board
   
30.06   Weed Control Board
   
30.07   Area Plan Department
   
30.08   Cemetery Commission
   
30.09   Public Defender Board
   
30.10   Commissioner meetings
   
30.11   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
30.12   Department of Buildings; Building Commissioner
   
30.13   [Reserved]
   
30.14   Tourism Commission
   
30.15   Council meetings; rules of procedure
   
30.16   Area Plan Commission
   
30.17   Department of Economic Development
   
30.18   Drainage Board
   
30.19   Housing Authority
   
30.20   County Commissioners
   
30.21   Hospital Authority
   
30.22   Internet Technology Committee
   
30.23   School Safety Commission
   
30.24   Wabash River Regional Development Authority
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Management Department and Advisory Council, see
Ch. 35
§ 30.01  ADVISORY COUNCIL ON POLLING PLACE ACCESSIBILITY.
   (A)   A local Advisory Council is herein established to provide advice to
the county in providing appropriate polling places for disabled and elderly
voters in compliance with I.C. 3-11-8.
   (B)   The local Advisory Council shall be composed of three registered
county voters, at least two of which shall be either disabled or over the age
of 65 years of age.
   (C)   Appointments to the Advisory Council shall be made by the
Commissioners of the county and county residents with a variety of background,
party affiliation and varied perspectives shall be encouraged to participate on
the Advisory Board.
(Council Ord. 10-2003, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 30.02  DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT; COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Department of Redevelopment (the "Department"), controlled
by a board of five members to be known as the "Knox County Redevelopment
Commission" (the "Commission"), is hereby created and established.
   (B)   The five members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners of the county (the "Board") and shall be governed by, and
operated in accordance with, I.C. 36-7-4-1 et seq. as that chapter may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-14-8, the Commission will hold its first
meeting not later than 30 days after the appointment of the members of the
Commission.
   (D)   The Commission is authorized and directed to enter into agreements in
connection with the project and otherwise as are necessary or appropriate to
assure the use of the incremental tax revenue as contemplated for the
provisions of this section and state law.
   (E)   (1)   The President, currently James Franklin, is appointed nonvoting
advisor to the Commission. The President shall serve at the pleasure of the
Board of Commissioners for a term ending not later than 12-31-2011, and until a
successor is appointed.
      (2)   As the nonvoting advisor, under the law:
         (a)   The President is not considered a member of the Redevelopment
Commission for purposes of I.C. 36-7-14, but is entitled to attend and
participate in the proceedings of all the meetings of the Commission; and
         (b)   Is not entitled to a salary, per diem or reimbursement of
expenses.
(Ord. (joint) 2005-4, passed 4-12-2005, 4-18-2005; Res. 2010-8, passed 12-6-
2010)
§ 30.03  WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION PLANNING TASK FORCE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners appoints the County Emergency Management
Agency the lead agency in this planning effort, which shall include development
of homeland security plans.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners further appoints the Executive Director of
the County Emergency Management Agency as the Director of the Planning Task
Force and Homeland Security. The Director shall report quarterly in person and/
or in writing to the Board with regard to the planning efforts.
(Res. 2004-4A, passed 4- -2004)
§ 30.04  POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   There is hereby established, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20, the County
Police Reserves, which shall be known as the County Sheriff's Reserve Unit.
   (B)   The maximum number of members of the reserve unit shall be 19.
(Ord. 7-1983, passed 5-31-1983)
§ 30.05  COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD.
   The Board of County Commissioners for the county and the state, do hereby
establish a Community Corrections Advisory Board, consisting of the members as
mandated in I.C. 11-12-2-2(a), for terms as mandated in I.C. 11-12-2-2(b).
(Res. 2-1984, passed 1-16-1984)
§ 30.06  WEED CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1 et seq., the County Weed Control Board is
hereby established to control and contain Canadian thistle, Johnson grass and
sorghum almum within the county, which weeds are hereafter called "noxious
weeds".
   (B)   The Weed Control Board shall consist of five members to be appointed
by the County Commissioners of the county: one township trustee; one Soil and
Water Conservation District Supervisor; one representative from the
agricultural community at large; one representative from the County Highway
Department; and the cooperative extension service agent from the county, who
will serve in a non-voting advisory capacity. Each Board member shall be
appointed for a term of four years. All vacancies in the membership of the
Board shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as initial
appointments. The officers of the Board shall be a Chairperson and a Secretary.
   (C)   The members of the Board shall not receive any compensation, but are
entitled to traveling and other expenses as may be necessary in the discharge
of their duties.
   (D)   The County Highway Supervisor and the Soil and Water Conservation
District Supervisor or employee serving on the Board shall serve as inspectors
for the Board. They shall make periodic inspections and report their findings
to the Board.
   (E)   The powers and duties of the County Weed Control Board include:
      (1)   Taking all necessary and proper steps to control and contain
noxious weeds which have adverse significance on agricultural production;
      (2)   Entering upon any land, public or private, at any reasonable time
after giving 48 hours notice to the person in possession of the land to inspect
for noxious weeds, unless permission is granted to enter earlier;
      (3)   Purchasing supplies, material and equipment;
      (4)   Acquiring by gift or purchase, holding or disposing of, any real
property in the name of the Board, to include such facilities as offices,
laboratories, operational buildings, rights-of-way and easements;
      (5)   Making contracts for the purpose of carrying out the duties of the
Board;
      (6)   Entering into cooperative agreements with appropriate organizations
for the purpose of sharing technical assistance in developing and carrying out
the purposes of the Board;
      (7)   Identifying problems determined to be of importance to the public
welfare and developing control programs appropriate to each situation;
      (8)   Undertaking investigations to determine the extent of infestation
of noxious weed species, along with their effect on agricultural production in
the county;
      (9)   Employing the latest technological advances to control and contain
noxious weeds in the county;
      (10)   Accepting gifts and grants of money, services or property for any
use consistent with the objectives of the Board;
      (11)   Exercising all other powers necessary to carry out the purposes of
I.C. 36-7-10.1 et seq.; and
      (12)   Performing such additional duties as the County Commissioners of
the county may direct.
   (F)   (1)   The Weed Control Board shall require persons owning real estate
located anywhere in the county and persons owning easements, rights-of-way or
other similar interest in real estate located in the county to control and
contain any noxious weeds growing on that property.
      (2)   A five-day written notice to remove any noxious weeds shall be
issued by the Board and served by certified or registered mail addressed to the
latest address of the person or to his or her resident agent. In the
alternative, notice may be served personally by the County Sheriff.
   (G)   Any person failing to begin a program recommended by the County Weed
Control Board to control and contain noxious weeds within five days of
notification as required in division (F) above shall be guilty of Class C
infraction.
(Ord. 6-1986, passed 7-7-1986)
§ 30.07  AREA PLAN DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It is the declared intention of the Board of Commissioners of the
county to avail itself of the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4, as amended, Indiana
General Assembly, and to participate in the operation of the Area Planning
Department after it is established, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby adopts the provisions
of I.C. 36-7-4, as amended, Indiana General Assembly.
   (C)   The Area Planning Department of the county is hereby established and
shall be in existence from the date on which it is organized at its first
meeting called by the president of the Board of County Commissioners.
   (D)   The membership of the Area Plan Commission of the county shall be as
set forth in I.C. 36-7-4.
   (E)   A copy of this section, upon its passage and signature by the members
of the Board of County Commissioners shall be certified to the respective Board
of Trustees of the Town of Bruceville, Indiana, the Town of Decker, Indiana,
the Town of Edwardsport, Indiana, the Town of Monroe City, Indiana, the Town of
Oaktown, Indiana, the Town of Sandborn, Indiana, and the Town of Wheatland,
Indiana, and also the City of Bicknell, Indiana, and the City of Vincennes,
Indiana.
(Ord. 2-1971, passed 6-28-1971)
§ 30.08  CEMETERY COMMISSION.
   (A)   It is declared intention of the Board of Commissioners of the county
to avail itself of the provisions of I.C. 23-14-67.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby adopts the provisions
of I.C. 23-14-67.
   (C)   The Cemetery Commission of the county is hereby established and shall
be in existence from the date on which it is organized at its first meeting
called by the President of the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The membership of the Cemetery Commission of the county shall be as
set forth in I.C. 23-14-67.
(Ord. 1-1971, passed 6-28-1971)
§ 30.09  PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD.
   (A)   Board established. The County Public Defender Board is hereby
established for the purpose of providing legal representation to indigent
defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile, probation violation, extradition,
child support, civil commitments and other proceedings where the right to
counsel has been established by law.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The County Public Defender Board created by this section.
      INDIGENT DEFENDANT/ RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal
representation and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal
representation at public expense.
      LEGAL REPRESENTATION.
         (a)   The services of an attorney provided to a defendant/respondent
in a matter originating in a state court in a county involving:
            1.   A person charged with a crime as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-75;
            2.   An act of delinquency as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2;
            3.   A violation of a condition of probation established as a part
of a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
            4.   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
            5.   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C.
31-16-2;
            6.   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
            7.   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
         (b)   The term legal representation includes services in connection
with all pre-trial, trial and appellate proceedings in which an indigent
defendant/respondent has a right to counsel.
   (C)   Board membership and appointment.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of three members; one member appointed by
the County Commissioners; and two members from different political parties
appointed by majority vote of the judges who exercise felony or juvenile
jurisdiction.
      (2)   The initial term of the member appointed by the County
Commissioners shall expire on 1-17-2000. The initial term of one member
appointed by the judges shall expire on 1-15-2001, and the initial term of the
other member appointed by the judges shall expire on 1-21-2001.
      (3)   After the initial term of each member, appointments shall be for
three-year terms. Members of the Board shall serve until their successor is
appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
      (4)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of
the Board; a city, town or county attorney, a law enforcement officer, a judge
or a court employee.
      (5)   Board members shall serve without pay, but may receive
reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the member's duties if
approved by the Board.
      (6)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be
approved by a majority of the members present.
      (7)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly or upon call of its
Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
      (8)   The Board shall elect its Chairperson by a majority vote of the
Board.
   (D)   Powers and duties of the Board. The Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance with I.C. 33-40.
The comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
         (a)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time;
         (b)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney or attorneys through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible; and
         (c)   Professional development, continuing legal education and
malpractice coverage for public defenders.
      (2)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent
legal representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support and criminal contempt and other
matters pursuant to the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of
indigence and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation
provided at public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-40;
      (4)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Agency and monitor the
expenditures of funds; and
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public an
annual report on the operation of the Agency.
   (E)   Authority of judges. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
abridge the authority of any judge of a state court of this county from
appointing counsel for any person entitled thereto under the Constitution of
the United States or the Constitution of the state.
   (F)   Scope of ordinance. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create
a right of reimbursement pursuant to I.C. 33-40, except to the extent that any
claims for reimbursement comply with I.C. 33-40 and the standards of the State
Public Defender Commission.
(Ord. 15-1998, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 30.10  COMMISSIONER MEETINGS.
   (A)   The County Commissioners will meet once a month on the third Monday of
the month at 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   If the regularly scheduled meeting falls on a legal holiday then the
meeting will be held on the Wednesday immediately following the holiday at 6:00
p.m.
   (C)   The County Commissioners will hold an executive session before each
regularly scheduled meeting at 5:30 p.m.  The executive session will be only
for the purposes allowed by law.
   (D)   All meetings will be held at the Eva Hill Auditorium at Good Samaritan
Hospital in Vincennes, Indiana, unless otherwise announced.
   (E)   The County Commissioners may hold other meetings as allowed by law
from time to time during the year.
   (F)   All public notices required by law to be posted at the meeting room of
the County Commissioners will be posted on the bulletin board outside the
Commissioners Room at the County Courthouse.
(Res. 8-2009, passed - -2009; Res. 7-2013, passed 3-20-2013; Res. 8-2013,
passed 3-20-2013)
§ 30.11  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   The County Council herein establishes the County Department of Parks
and Recreation.
   (B)   (1)   Members of the Board of the County Parks and Recreation
Department shall be appointed as follows:
         (a)   Two members from different political parties appointed by the
judge of the circuit court;
         (b)   One member appointed by the County Commissioners;
         (c)   Two members from different political parties appointed by the
County Council;
         (d)   One ex-officio member appointed by the county cooperative
extension coordinator; and
         (e)   One ex-officio member appointed by the Board of the Soil and
Water Conservation District.
      (2)   Each member shall be appointed on the basis of his or her interest
in and knowledge of parks and recreation.
   (C)   (1)   The initial terms of the members appointed shall be:
         (a)   One member appointed by the judge of the circuit court shall
serve for a one-year term and one member appointed by the judge of the circuit
court shall serve for a three-year term;
         (b)   The member appointed by the County Commissioners shall serve for
a two-year period;
         (c)   One member appointed by the County Council shall serve for a
two-year term and one member appointed by the County Council shall serve for a
four-year term; and
         (d)   Thereafter, as a term expires, each new appointment shall be for
a four-year term. Terms shall expire on the first Monday of January, but an
appointee shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
      (2)   Each ex-officio member shall serve for a four-year term.
      (3)   No member of the County Council or the Board of Commissioners may
serve as a member of the Board.
   (D)   All meetings of the County Board of Parks and Recreation shall be
conducted in accordance with I.C. 36-10-3-8.
   (E)   (1)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect
from among its members, a President and a Vice-President. The Vice-President
shall act as president during the absence or disability of the President.
      (2)   Each member elected shall continue to have the full rights as a
member of the Board, including the right to vote, regardless of his or her
status as an officer.
      (3)   The Board may select a Secretary either from within or outside its
membership.
   (F)   Members of the County Board of Parks and Recreation shall be
compensated as provided in I.C. 36-10-3-9 and the County Council may
appropriate and approve a per diem allowance to a member of the Board for
attending a meeting of the Board.
   (G)   The County Board of Parks and Recreation shall have and exercise the
powers and duties set forth in I.C. 36-10-3-10, I.C. 36-10-3-11 and I.C. 36-10-
3-12, including the preparation and submission of an annual budget in the same
manner as other departments of county government.
   (H)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-16, every officer and employee who
handles money in the performance of duties as prescribed by this chapter shall
execute an official bond for the term of office or employment before entering
upon the duties of the office or employment.
      (2)   The County Council may authorize the purchase of a blanket bond or
crime insurance policy endorsed to include faithful performance to cover all
officers' and employees' faithful performance of duties.
      (3)   The amount of the bond or crime insurance policy shall be fixed by
the County Council. All official bonds shall be filed and recorded in the
Office of the County Recorder.
   (I)   The Board may appoint a superintendent of parks and recreation
pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-13. It may not consider political affiliation in the
selection of the Superintendent. The person appointed as Superintendent must:
      (1)   Be qualified by training or experience in the field or parks and
recreation; or
      (2)   Have a certification or an advanced degree in the field of parks
and recreation.
   (J)   Under the direction of the Board, the Superintendent shall:
      (1)   Propose annually a plan for the operation of the Department;
      (2)   Administer the plan as approved by the Board;
      (3)   Supervise the general administration of the Department;
      (4)   Keep the records of the Department and preserve all papers and
documents of the Department;
      (5)   Recommend persons for appointment as assistants if the Board
determines there is a need;
      (6)   Appoint the employees of the department, subject to the approval of
the Board, according to the standards and qualifications fixed by the board and
without regard to political affiliation;
      (7)   Prepare and present to the Board an annual report; and
      (8)   Perform other duties that the Board directs.
   (K)   If the Board determines that the size of the Department's operation
requires assistants for the Superintendent, the Board may appoint, upon the
recommendation of the Superintendent, one or more assistants pursuant to the
qualifications set forth in I.C. 36-10-3-15.
   (L)   In all other respects not specifically mentioned herein, the County
Parks and Recreation Board shall conduct its operation in accordance with the
requirements and procedures set forth in I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq.
(Council Ord. 7-1997, passed - -1997)
§ 30.12  DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS; BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   Under the provisions of § 1, Chapter 348 of the Acts of the General Assembly
of the state for 1965 as amended by § 1 by Public Law 236 of the Acts of the
General Assembly of the state for 1971 (I.C. 36-8), there is hereby established
a Department of Buildings and the Office of Building Commissioner, inspectors
and other personnel as the Board of Commissioners shall determine.
(Ord. 7-1973, passed 8-24-1973)
§ 30.13  [RESERVED].
§ 30.14  TOURISM COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby confirms that the County
Tourism Commission shall continue in existence and shall operate pursuant to
I.C. 6-9-18-1 et seq.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners hereby determines that the County
Tourism Commission shall consist of five members, a simple majority of which
must be:
      (1)   Engaged in a convention, visitor or tourism business; or
      (2)   Involved in or promoting conventions, visitors or tourism.
   (C)   In all other respects, members must be qualified and are subject to
the provisions of I.C. 6-9-18-5.
   (D)   After expiration of the current terms of existing members of the
County Tourism Commission, appointments to the Board shall be made by the
following entities.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners shall appoint two of the members.
      (2)   The Mayor of the City of Vincennes shall appoint two of the
members.
      (3)   The County Council shall appoint one of the members.
   (E)   The existing members of the County Tourism Commission shall retain
their offices until the expiration of their current term. Upon the completion
of the current members' terms, the following schedule of appointments shall
apply.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners shall appoint the replacement of
the first current member whose term shall expire, upon expiration of the term.
      (2)    The County Council shall appoint the replacement of the second
current member whose term shall expire, upon expiration of the term.
      (3)   The Mayor of the City of Vincennes shall appoint the replacement of
the third current member whose term shall expire, upon expiration of the term.
      (4)   The County Board of Commissioners shall appoint the replacement of
the fourth current member whose term shall expire, upon expiration of the term.
      (5)   The Mayor of the City of Vincennes shall appoint the replacement of
the fifth current member whose term shall expire, upon expiration of the term.
   (F)   New appointed members of the County Tourism Commission shall hold
their offices for terms of two years. A member whose term expires may be
reappointed to serve another term.
(Ord. 15-2003, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 30.15  COUNCIL MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Meetings. Unless otherwise announced and with proper legal notice, the
regular meetings of the County Council shall be held on the second Tuesday of
each month at the time of 5:00 p.m. The regular meeting place of the Council
shall be the Fortnightly Club, North Sixth Street, in Vincennes, Indiana, or
such other locations in the county as the Council deems necessary. In the event
that the date of the regular meeting falls on a holiday, the regular meeting
shall be held on the next succeeding day that is not a holiday or weekend.
   (B)   Leadership.
      (1)   The Council shall elect a President and Vice-President. The
President of the Council shall preserve order and decorum and conduct the
meetings under Robert's Rules of Order, as modified for political bodies. The
Vice-President shall conduct meetings in the absence of the President.
      (2)   The President may require the County Sheriff or a Deputy Sheriff to
be present at all meetings.
      (3)   An attorney will be appointed by the Council to serve for one year
as counsel for the Council.
      (4)   The Council shall have three or more standing committees,
including, but not limited to, the Administration and Finance Committee, the
Community Development and the Economic Development Committee. The President
will make the appointments to the above committees. The President shall be an
ex-officio member of each committee.
      (5)   During a meeting, if a member desires to speak, he or she will
address the chair as "Mr. President". Members shall be permitted to speak more
than once on an issue, but not until every other member desiring to speak shall
have spoken.
      (6)   Members of the public will address the Council as a whole after
being recognized by the President. The person desiring to be heard will take
the speakers position and state their name and address. Each person will be
allotted two minutes to speak, but may speak longer at the discretion of the
President.
   (C)   Agenda.
      (1)   Listing order of business on the agenda for each meeting:
         (a)   Opening, including the pledge of allegiance;
         (b)   The roll call;
         (c)   Adoption of the agenda;
         (d)   Reading of minutes;
         (e)   Old business;
         (f)   New business;
         (g)   Announcements; and
         (h)   Adjournment.
      (2)   Items can be placed on the agenda on or before the tenth day prior
to the Council's regular meeting. The President may allow emergency items
placed on the agenda after the date. At a meeting, it takes a majority vote to
allow additional items to be placed on the agenda. All fiscal matters appearing
on the Council's agenda must have the duly elected officer or department head
in attendance.
      (3)   Each Council members complete meeting packet will be available
seven days prior to a regular meeting. The packet can be mailed or pick-up at
the Council member's discretion.
      (4)   The minutes of a Council meeting will be available to its members
and the general public 21 work days after the preceding council meeting. A
final draft will be available in the Council member's regular packet.
   (D)   Amendment of rules. These procedural rules may be amended by a
majority vote of the Council.
(Council Res. 2008-1, passed - -2008; Ord. 15-2013, passed 8-19-2013; Council
Res. 2017- 1, passed 1-10-2017)
§ 30.16  AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Whereas the County Area Plan Commission is and has been the planning
agency with exclusive responsibilities throughout the county including the
county, City of Bicknell, City of Vincennes and the Towns of Bruceville,
Decker, Edwardsport, Monroe City, Oaktown, Sandborn and Wheatland for the
planning and zoning functions of the county and participating municipalities
herein named. It is the intent of this section to clearly identify
representation on the County Area Plan Commission and the manner of appointment
to conform with I.C. 36-7-4-211(a), (Acts of 1981).
   (B)   To provide equitable representation of rural and urban populations,
representatives on the County Area Plan Commission shall be as follows:
      (1)   Three representatives from Vincennes City;
      (2)   Two representatives from Bicknell City;
      (3)   One representative from the Advisory Council of the towns within
the county; and
      (4)   Five representatives from the county.
         (a)   Vincennes City. One member shall be a member of the legislative
body appointed by the legislative body and two citizen members shall be
appointed by the Chief Executive.
         (b)   Bicknell City. One member shall be a member of the legislative
body appointed by the legislative body and one citizen member shall be
appointed by the Chief Executive.
         (c)   Small towns. One member shall be a member of the Advisory
Council on town affairs selected in a manner to conform with I.C. 36-7-4-210.
         (d)   Knox County. One member as a representative of the school
corporations appointed by the School Corporation Superintendents: one member
being the County Agricultural Extension Agent; one citizen member who is a
resident of the unincorporated area of the county appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners; one citizen member who is a resident of the
unincorporated area of the county or a small town appointed by the County
Council; one member who is the elected or appointed County Surveyor.
   (C)   (1)   The authority to issue improvement location permits is hereby
delegated to the County Area Plan Commission by the county and the
municipalities therein.
      (2)   The authority to issue a certificate of occupancy is reserved by
the county and the municipalities therein to enable the participating bodies to
combine same with their respective building inspection departments or other
inspection designees of their choice.
      (3)   A separate fee schedule may be adopted by the county or any
participating municipalities for a certificate of occupancy.
      (4)   No offices or designees of a municipality may issue an improvement
location permit or a certificate of occupancy for any structure or use to be
erected outside the corporate boundaries of the municipality.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect after its passage by
the Board of County Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 1-1982, passed 1-11-1982)
§ 30.17  DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Department of Economic Development of Knox County, Indiana,
controlled by a commission of three members to be known as the "Knox County
Economic Development Commission" (the "Economic Development Commission"), is
hereby created and established.
   (B)   The three members of the Economic Development Commission shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners of, with one member selected by the
Board of Commissioners, one member nominated by the County Council, and one
member nominated by the Common Council of the City of Vincennes, Indiana, the
most populous municipality located in Knox County, Indiana, all as provided in
I.C. 36-7-12-7.
   (C)   The Clerk of the County Council (the County Auditor) is directed to
transmit immediately a copy of the ordinance codified herein to the Board of
Commissioners and the Common Council of the City of Vincennes for the purpose
of notifying each to take the actions referred to in division (B) above and as
required by I.C. 36-7-12-9.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption by the County Council and approval by signature of a majority of the
Board of Commissioners in accordance with I.C. 36-2-4-8.
(Council Ord. 2011-1, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 30.18  DRAINAGE BOARD.
   (A)   As provided for in I.C. 36-9-27-5(a)(2), the Knox County Drainage
Board is reformed to consist of five members, appointed by the executive.
   (B)   The composition of the Board shall be as follows:
      (1)   At least one member of the Board shall be a member of the County
Executive.
      (2)   All members of the Board must be resident freeholders of Knox
County and knowledgeable in drainage matters.
      (3)   The Knox County Surveyor is an ex officio, nonvoting member.
   (C)   The term of each Board member shall be for three years.
   (D)   The initial terms of the Board members shall be staggered as follows:
      (1)   The term of the first member of the Board shall expire on 12-31-12.
      (2)   The term of the second and third members of the Board shall expire
on 12-31-2013.
      (3)   The terms of the fourth and fifth members of the Board shall expire
on 12-31-2014.
   (E)   The initial appointments to the Board are as follows:
      (1)   The first member of the Board is Sylvan Ice.
      (2)   The second member of the Board is Vaughn Huey.
      (3)   The Third member of the Board is Jim Sexton.
      (4)   The fourth member of the Board is Rowe Sargent.
      (5)   The fifth member of the Board is Matthew Malone.
   (F)   The ordinance codified herein shall become effective 7-1-2011.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 6-20-2011)
§ 30.19  HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the County Housing Authority shall now
be composed of seven persons, all of whom shall reside within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the Knox County Housing Authority.
   (2)   One of the seven persons serving as a Commissioner shall be a person
directly assisted by the County Housing Authority.
   (3)   The Board of Commissioners of the County Housing Authority shall be
composed of no more than four persons of whom are of the same political party.
   (4)   The two new additional appointments to the Board of Commissioners
shall each have a term which shall expire 3-31-15.
(Council Res. 2011-1, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 30.20  COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   That at the first meeting of the County Commissioners in January of
each year officers shall be elected.
   (B)   The officers of the County Commissioners will be a president and Vice
president.
   (C)   The only duties of the president shall be to preside over the meetings
of the County Commissioners and execute documents as authorized by the
Commissioners.
   (D)   The only duty of the vice president shall be to perform the duties of
the president if the president is unable or unwilling to so perform.
(Res. 5-2011, passed 6-6-2011)
§ 30.21  HOSPITAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Declaration of public policy. The Commissioners hereby find, determine
and declare that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the county to
create a hospital authority pursuant to the Act.
   (B)   Creation of authority. There is hereby created a hospital authority
for the county, to be known as the “Knox County, Indiana Hospital Authority”.
   (C)   Powers of authority. The County Hospital Authority shall have any and
all such powers as are provided for in the Act, as now in effect and
hereinafter amended, and any other powers which it may now or hereafter be
entitled to exercise under state law.
   (D)   Appointment of initial directors. The Commissioners hereby appoint
five persons, each a resident of the county, to serve as directors of the
County Hospital Authority, for the initial terms set forth below:
      (1)   One year;
      (2)   Two years;
      (3)   Three years;
      (4)   Four years; and
      (5)   Four years.
(Res. 2012-1, passed 1-3-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Indiana Hospital Authority Act, see I.C. 5-1-4
§ 30.22  INTERNET TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is established the Knox County Internet Technology Committee.
   (B)   The Committee shall consist of the following:
      (1)   The Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee;
      (2)   The Auditor or the Auditor’s designee;
      (3)   The Assessor or the Assessor’s designee;
      (4)   Two members of the County Council;
      (5)   One County Commissioner;
      (6)   The Surveyor or the Surveyor’s designee;
      (7)   The E 9-1-1 Director or his or her designee; and
      (8)   The EMS Director or his or her designee.
(Res. 7-2012, passed 5-7-2012)
§ 30.23  SCHOOL SAFETY COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is established the Knox County School Safety Commission as
allowed by I.C. 5-2-10.1-10.
   (B)   The members of the Commission are as follows:
      (1)   The school safety specialist for each school corporation located in
the county.
      (2)   The Judge of Knox County Superior Court I or his or her designee.
      (3)   The Sheriff of the county or his or her designee.
      (4)   The chief officer of every other law enforcement agency in the
county, or the chief officer’s designee.
      (5)   A representative of the juvenile probation system, appointed by the
Judge of County Superior Court I.
      (6)   Representatives of community agencies that work with children
within the county.
      (7)   A representative of the Indiana State Police district that serves
the county.
      (8)   A representative of the Prosecuting Attorneys Council of Indiana
who specializes in the prosecution of juveniles.
      (9)   Other appropriate individuals selected by the Commission.
   (C)   The initial meeting of the Commission shall be convened by the school
safety specialist of the school corporation having the largest ADM (as defined
in I.C. 20-18-2-2) in the county.
   (D)   A chairperson shall be elected annually.
   (E)   The Commission shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Perform a cumulative analysis of school safety needs within the
county.
      (2)   Coordinate and make recommendations for the following:
         (a)   Prevention of juvenile offenses and improving the reporting of
juvenile offenses within the schools.
         (b)   Proposals for identifying and assessing children who are at high
risk of becoming juvenile offenders.
         (c)   Methods to meet the educational needs of children who have been
detained as juvenile offenders.
         (d)   Methods to improve communications among agencies that work with
children.
         (e)   Methods to improve security and emergency preparedness.
         (f)   Additional equipment or personnel that are necessary to carry
out safety plans.
         (g)   Any other topic the Commission considers necessary to improve
school safety within the school corporations within the Commission’s
jurisdiction.
      (3)   Provide assistance to the school safety specialists on the
Commission in developing and requesting grants for safety plans.
      (4)   Provide assistance to the school safety specialists on the
Commission and the participating school corporations in developing and
requesting grants for school safe haven programs under section 7 of this
chapter.
      (5)   Assist each participating school corporation in carrying out the
schools corporation’s safety plans.
   (F)   The affirmative votes of a majority of the voting members of the
Commission are required for the Commission to take action on a measure.
(Ord. 11-2013, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 30.24  WABASH RIVER REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7.6-2-3 the County of Knox jointly with Vigo and
Sullivan Indiana counties which might so by elect, hereby establishes the
Wabash River Regional Development Authority ("Authority"). The Authority shall
consist of the entire area located within the legal boundaries of Knox County
including the incorporated and unincorporated territory, as well as the
territory of the other counties, cities, and towns that are or will become
members ("Members") of the Authority.
   (B)   The County of Knox shall be a member of the Authority for a period
commencing immediately upon the enactment of this section and ending on June
30, 2023, unless, at the time of the enactment of this section, no other entity
qualified to become a member has so done, in which case the period shall
commence upon the adoption of such an ordinance by such other member who,
together with Knox County, qualify to create said district.
   (C)   The County of Knox is located within Economic Growth Region 11, as the
region is defined by the Indiana Department of Workforce Development.
   (D)   The Authority shall be managed by a Development Board ("Board")
consisting of five board members ("Board Members"). The nomination and
appointment of the Board, the organization of the Authority, the scope of the
powers to by exercise by the Board, the manner in which such powers are to be
exercised, and all of the other functions of the Board shall be as set forth in
I.C. 36-7.6-2-1 et seq. and all acts amendatory and supplemental thereto, as
well as any other applicable laws of the state.
   (E)   The chapter may be amended or repealed in whole or in part, at any
time, as provided by and subject to applicable laws and regulations.
   (F)   Should any portion of this chapter be deemed invalid for any reason
that portion shall be considered severable and the remaining sections shall
remain in full force and effect.
(Council Ord. 2015-2, passed 9-24-2015)
CHAPTER 31:  PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
31.01   Personnel policy handbook adopted by reference
   
31.02   Emergency medical leave sharing bank
§ 31.01  PERSONNEL POLICY HANDBOOK ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policies of the county are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 6-2013, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 10-2013, passed - -2013)
§ 31.02  EMERGENCY MEDICAL LEAVE SHARING BANK.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BANK. An account maintained by the Knox County Auditor containing hours
donated by employees for emergency medical leave purposes.
      EMPLOYEE. A person considered a full time employee of Knox County,
Indiana.
      MEDICAL EMERGENCY. A medical condition of an employee or family member
that will require the prolonged absence of the employee from duty and will
result in a substantial loss of income to the employee because the employee
will have exhausted all paid leave available apart from the leave-sharing plan.
      PAID TIME OFF (PTO). Vacation days, sick days, and compensatory time
earned. Paid holidays are not considered PAID TIME OFF for the purpose of this
policy.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   An employee requesting to use time from the bank must be
experiencing a medical emergency.
      (2)   Employee requesting time from the bank must be a current employee
in good standing of the county.
      (3)   Every employee requesting time from the bank shall complete an
application for emergency medical leave. The application will be available from
and turned in to the County Auditor. The County Commissioners or their designee
will review the application as soon as possible and either allow or deny the
application.
      (4)   Before an employee is eligible to receive time from the bank, the
employee must have exhausted their PTO including any compensatory time.
      (5)   An employee may not receive time in excess of 70 hours for a single
pay period.
      (6)   If the bank is empty, no application will be approved.
      (7)   Applicant’s identity will not be revealed unless requested by the
applicant or by court order.
   (C)   Donations.
      (1)   Before an employee may donate hours to the bank, the employee must
complete the medical emergency leave bank voluntary donation agreement which is
available from the County Auditor.
      (2)   All donations must come from the paid time off of a current
employee in good standing. No employee may donate any sick time within 30 days
of that employee’s scheduled retirement or resignation date or at any time when
the employee is suspended from work.
      (3)   No donation of sick time may be made for a period of less than one-
half day. Donations in excess of one-half day must be made in one-half day
increments.
      (4)   An employee may donate as many hours as they desire to the bank.
The hours donated must have been actually earned by the donating employee. No
employee may donate future hours to be accrued. An employee may donate as many
times per year as they desire. Each donation must be accompanied by a sick
leave bank voluntary donation agreement.
      (5)   Once hours have been donated, they will remain in the bank until
used. In the event that the hours donated to a specific employee are not used
by that employee, the donor may request that the hours be returned to the donor
by completing the donation return application available with the County
Auditor.
      (6)   Donor’s identity will not be revealed without written permission of
the donor or a court order.
      (7)   If a recipient employee receives paid leave hours under the policy
from a donor employee with a different pay rate, the leave time is converted
based on the recipient employee’s pay rate, so that the dollar value of the
surrendered leave remains the same but leave taken by the recipient employee is
always paid at the recipient employee’s regular rate of pay. For example, if
donor employee is regularly paid $15 per hour and surrenders eight hours paid
leave to a recipient employee who is regularly paid $10 per hour, the recipient
will receive 12 hours of paid leave, paid at $10 per hour (8 hours x 15 = 120
value, and 120 value at $10 per hour equals 12 hours).
   (D)   Voluntary programs. The county will not make known any employee’s
eligibility for donated time. It is the responsibility of the potential donor
rather than the recipient to initiate the donation process. Potential
recipients and their friends are expected to use discretion in soliciting
donations. No employee should feel pressured to donate time to a co-worker. Any
employee who believes they are being pressured to donate time should
immediately contact the County Auditor’s Office. All complaints received by the
Auditor under this section will immediately be referred to the County
Commissioners.
   (E)   Accrual of PTO time. Employee using donated time will not be eligible
to accrue PTO. In all other respects, donated time will be the same as any
other paid time off.
(Ord. 7-2013, passed 5-3-2013)
CHAPTER 32:  FINANCE AND FEES; PURCHASING
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Line item transfer requests and appropriations; procedures
   
32.02   Expenditures from the Treasury
   
32.03   Warrants or claims from Treasury; procedures
   
32.04   Electronic fund transfers
   
32.05   Pre-approved or pre-payment procedures
   
32.06   Electronic banking
   
32.07   Additional appropriations; elected official or department head required
presence
   
32.08   Credit card policy
   
32.09   Electronic transmission of statements and other information for
property taxes and special assessments
   
32.10   Internal Control Standards
Purchasing Procedures
   
32.20   "Knox County First" policy
   
32.21   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
32.22   Purchasing agency; agents
Fees
   
32.35   Fee schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  LINE ITEM TRANSFER REQUESTS AND APPROPRIATIONS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No intradepartment line item transfer in an amount greater than $400,
or additional appropriation from any office or department whose budget is
determined, established and overseen by the County Council shall be made unless
and until the transfer or appropriation request has been approved, in a
properly convened meeting, by a majority of the County Council and has been
submitted to the Council in accordance with the procedures set forth herein, as
follows.
      (1)   (a)   Intradepartment transfers in the amount of $400 or less may
be approved by the seated Council President or, at his or her discretion, may
be approved by the Council or any member of the Budget and Finance Committee.
         (b)   A given line item may not receive more than one transfer of this
type during any one budget year without being brought before the entire Council
during an open meeting.
         (c)   Any transfer approved by this method must be provided to all
Council members at the first available Council meeting.
      (2)   Within five days of the receipt of a request to transfer funds or
appropriate additional funds from any office or department whose budget is
established, determined and overseen by the County Council, the County Auditor
shall provide notice of the request to the President of the Council and shall
place the request on the agenda for the next regular meeting of the County
Council all additionals and any transfers that the President or Finance
Committee member did not approve or exceeds the stated $400 amount.
      (3)   The elected official making the request shall is expected to
personally appear at the meeting of the County Council to discuss the request
and the necessity for its approval.
      (4)   When there is no elected official over an office or department, the
department head of that office shall appear before the Council to discuss the
request and the necessity for its approval.
   (B)   Failure of the elected official or department head to attend the
meeting may result in the request being denied or tabled until the time that
his or her appearance before the Council can be arranged.
   (C)   Any intradepartmental line item transfer or additional appropriation
that is expended without the prior approval of the County Council or by Council
President or Finance Committee member in the case of those transfers which meet
the $400 or less requirement is improper, unauthorized and will be considered
by this Council to be null and void.
(Council Ord. 2009-4, passed - -2009)
§ 32.02  EXPENDITURES FROM THE TREASURY.
   (A)   The County Auditor shall not appropriate warrants from the county
treasury without prior approval of the County Council, except where
specifically permitted by statute.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall never cause nor permit an item of
appropriation to be overdrawn.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall never cause nor permit an item of
appropriation to be drawn for a purpose other than that for which it was
appropriated by the County Council.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall not cause a warrant to be drawn on the county
treasury unless the County Council has made the appropriation for the calendar
year in which the warrant is drawn and the appropriation has not been
exhausted.
(Council Ord. 2009-2, passed - -2009)
§ 32.03  WARRANTS OR CLAIMS FROM TREASURY; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Except where specifically permitted by state statute, departments
shall not request and the Auditor shall not approve claims from the County
Treasury without prior approval of the County Council.
   (B)   Departments shall not request and the Auditor shall not permit an item
of appropriation to be overdrawn or to be drawn on for a purpose other than the
purpose for which it was appropriated by the County Council.
   (C)   The Auditor shall keep a separate account for each item of
appropriation made by the County Council, and shall specifically indicate which
item of appropriation the warrant or claim is drawn against.
   (D)   All departments, without exception, must submit items for payment on a
prompt basis. At year end, all departments must encumber funds when
appropriate. If no funds are encumbered, and if the claim has not been
submitted timely (i.e., the item or service provided occurred in November of
the prior year, or earlier), then the department head, Auditor and Board of
Commission are hereby required to submit the item for action deemed appropriate
by the County Council before submitted to Auditor for payment.
   (E)   Unless specifically authorized to do so by the County Council, the
Auditor shall not leave items of appropriation which were approved in a prior
fiscal year unpaid and then cause a warrant or claim to be drawn from funds
appropriated for the next fiscal year.
   (F)   Nothing contained herein prohibits the County Auditor from encumbering
funds from a line item in the budget of the prior fiscal year, however, the
Auditor shall only encumber funds for the amount of the invoice incurred in the
prior fiscal year and only if there are sufficient funds in the line item from
the budget of the prior fiscal year to cover the amount of the invoice.
(Council Ord. 2009-, passed - -2009)
§ 32.04  ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   The County Treasurer is hereby authorized and empowered to utilize
electronic funds transfers in the transaction of the county's business with
financial institutions, in connection with the following specific types of
transactions:
      (1)   Transfers of funds to the county's payroll account for purposes of
satisfying payroll obligations; and
      (2)   Transfer of funds between accounts of the county.
   (B)   All electronic funds transfers must be personally authorized and
approved by the County Treasurer.
   (C)   The County Treasurer's office is required to maintain, for a period of
six years from each electronic funds transfer, documentation from the bank
holding the account, recording the transaction in written form. The written
record which may be in the form of a letter, deposit slip or fax confirmation,
must contain at least the following information:
      (1)   The date of the transaction;
      (2)   A description to identify the type of transaction; and
      (3)   The amount of the transaction.
(Ord. 32-2006, passed 9-25-2006)
§ 32.05  PRE-APPROVED OR PRE-PAYMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The following categories are designated for pre-approved or pre-
payment procedures:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the U.S. Government,
its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is prohibited;
      (6)   Grants or state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease or rental payments;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State or federal taxes;
      (12)   Expenses paid for emergency services;
      (13)   Collect freight deliveries;
      (14)   Conference registrations approved by the Board of Commissioners;
      (15)   Reimbursement for conference expenses incurred by county
government offices for lawful purposes;
      (16)   Credit card or charge card expenses incurred by county government
offices for lawful purposes; and
      (17)   Postage.
   (B)   Pursuant to Indiana Code, each payment must be fully itemized and each
invoice or bill certified by the County Auditor. The pre-approved or pre-paid
claim must be advertised and approved at the next scheduled meeting of the
County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 3-1-2002)
§ 32.06  ELECTRONIC BANKING.
   (A)   All offices of county government shall immediately take all steps
necessary to initiate the use of electronic banking for the transfer, receipt,
deposit and collection of public funds.
   (B)   All offices of county government shall thereafter continue to utilize
the electronic banking process to ensure increased efficiency when transacting
county business and further, to provide convenience for its citizens when they
engage in transactions with the offices.
(Council Ord. 2-2002, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 32.07  ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS; ELECTED OFFICIAL OR DEPARTMENT HEAD
REQUIRED PRESENCE.
   (A)   When an office seeks an additional appropriation, the elected official
of that office shall appear at the meeting of the Council to discuss the
appropriation requested.
   (B)   When there is no elected official over the office, the department head
shall appear before the Council to discuss the appropriation or transfer.
   (C)   Failure of the elected official or department head to personalty
attend the meeting may result in the request being denied or tabled until the
time that the appearance can be arranged.
   (D)   This section shall be effective immediately upon adoption.
(Council Res. 2008-3A, passed 3-11-2008)
§ 32.08  CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   (A)   Credit cards may not be utilized by any office of county government,
unless authorization is specifically provided by this section, or otherwise in
writing prior to use, by the County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   As of the date of this section, the Board of Commissioners has
authorized the Sheriff of the county to maintain and use one credit card, the
Auditor of the county to maintain and use one credit card, the Park and
Recreation Department to maintain and use one credit card, and the County
Highway Department to maintain and use one credit card. The Board of
Commissioners may, in its sole discretion, authorize other county offices to
maintain and utilize credit cards in the future, but only with the prior
written approval of the Board of Commissioners. In any event, where the
maintenance and use of a credit card is authorized, the credit card must be
under the direct control of the elected office holder (as in the case of office
of the Sheriff or Auditor), or by the Superintendent (as in the case of the
Park Department and the Highway Department). The issuance and use of the credit
card shall be the responsibility of the official or Superintendent.
   (C)   Credit cards may only be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   The purchase of gasoline and other necessary travel expenses, when
approved by the office holder or Superintendent;
      (2)   Purchase of necessary supplies where it is not practicable to pay
for the supplies with a check; and
      (3)   Making reservations and confirmations for necessary work-related
travel approved by the officer or Superintendent.
   (D)   If the office holder or Superintendent permits an authorized employee
to utilize the credit card, then as soon as the purpose for which the credit
card was to be used has been accomplished, the card must immediately be
returned to the custody of the office holder or Superintendent.
   (E)   The office holder or Superintendent maintaining and utilizing a credit
card shall maintain a written a computerized accounting system or log which
must include the names of individuals requesting usage of the credit card,
their position, the estimated amounts to be charged, the fund and account
numbers to be charged, the date the card is issued and the date the card is
returned.
   (F)   (1)   Credit cards shall not be used to bypass the accounting system
of the department or the county.
      (2)   Purchase must be issued in order to provide the fiscal officer with
the means to encumber and track appropriations to provide the county government
with timely and accurate accounting information and monitoring of the
accounting system.
   (G)   (1)   Supporting documents for all purchases made on credit cards,
such as paid bills and receipts must be provided to, and maintained by the
elected official or the Superintendent.
      (2)   The credit card statement reflecting the purpose is not sufficient
for this purpose.
      (3)   Purchase orders and supporting documents must be maintained by the
office holder or Superintendent, and copies provided to the County Auditor, as
required.
   (H)   The county will pay no interest or penalties incurred due to late
filing or furnishing of documentation by an elected official or Superintendent.
If credit card interest or penalties are incurred due to late filing or late
payment, the penalty or interest shall be the responsibility of the elected
officer or Superintendent.
   (I)   (1)   Various credit cards are available without payment of annual
fees.
      (2)   Accordingly, if a county office seeks to maintain a credit card
which charges and annual fee, specific written approval must be obtained from
the Board of Commissioners before the annual fees may be paid.
   (J)   (1)   Section
32.05 has established the fact that credit card or credit card expenses
incurred by county government offices for lawful purposes is a category
designed for a pre-approved or pre-payment procedures.
      (2)   However, as provided by the section, each payment must be fully
itemized and each invoice or bill certified by the County Auditor.
      (3)   The pre-approved or pre-paid claim must be advertised at the next
scheduled meeting of the County Board of Commissioners.
   (K)   Failure to comply with this policy shall constitute cause for the
Board of Commissioners to revoke credit card privileges to any county office.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 3-6-2006)
   (A)   The county hereby authorizes the electronic transmission of statements
and other information for property taxes and special assessments first due and
payable after 2011.
   (B)   The county hereby authorizes each county taxpayer (hereafter the
“person”) to direct the County Treasurer and County Auditor to transmit the
following to the person by electronic mail and as applicable:
      (1)   A statement that would otherwise be sent by the County Treasurer to
the person by regular mail under I.C. 6-1.1-22-8.1(a)(1), including a statement
that reflects installment payment due dates under I.C. 6-1.1-22-9.5 or I.C. 6-
1.1-22-9.7;
      (2)   A provisional tax statement that would otherwise be sent by the
County Treasurer to the person by regular mail under I.C. 6-1.1-22.5-6;
      (3)   A reconciling tax statement that would otherwise be sent by the
County Treasurer to the person by regular mail under any of the following: (a)
I.C. 6-1.1-22-9, (b) I.C. 6-1.1-22-9.7, (c) I.C. 6-1.1-22.5-12, including a
statement that reflects installment payment due dates under I.C. 6-1.1-22.5-
18.5;
      (4)   A statement that would otherwise be sent by the County Auditor to
the person by regular mail under I.C. 6-1.1-17-3(b);
      (5)   Any other information that:
         (a)   Concerns the property taxes or special assessments; and
         (b)   Would otherwise be sent:
            1.   By the County Treasurer or the County Auditor to the person by
regular mail; and
            2.   Before the last date the property taxes or special assessments
may be paid without becoming delinquent.
   (C)   This section takes effect with the ______[select first or second]
installment of property taxes of ______[select tax billing year for ordinance
to be effective] and shall continue indefinitely.
   (D)   Notice shall be given to county taxpayers of the option to direct
electronic transmission of statements and other information for property taxes
and special assessments in compliance with all applicable statutory provisions.
   (E)   The County Treasurer and County Auditor shall have the authority to
electronically submit to county taxpayers their statements and other
information for property taxes and special assessments first due and payable
after 2011.
   (F)   The County Auditor and County Treasurer are authorized to negotiate
and execute a contract with
a provider to obtain such administrative, technical, clerical and related
services (“e-billing services”) in order to implement a program for the
electronic transmission of statements and other information for property taxes
and special assessments.
   (G)   The e-billing services contract shall provide for the delivery of such
services by a contractor in compliance with all applicable statutory provisions
for the electronic transmission of statements and other information for
property taxes and special assessments. The e-billing services contract shall
also provide for the payment of fee(s) for each parcel that a county taxpayer
elects to participate in the electronic transmission of statements and other
information for property taxes and special assessments.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 32.09  ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION OF STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION FOR
PROPERTY TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   The county hereby authorizes the electronic transmission of statements
and other information for property taxes and special assessments first due and
payable after 2011.
   (B)   The county hereby authorizes each county taxpayer (hereafter the
“person”) to direct the County Treasurer and County Auditor to transmit the
following to the person by electronic mail and as applicable:
      (1)   A statement that would otherwise be sent by the County Treasurer to
the person by regular mail under I.C. 6-1.1-22-8.1(a)(1), including a statement
that reflects installment payment due dates under I.C. 6-1.1-22-9.5 or I.C. 6-
1.1-22-9.7;
      (2)   A provisional tax statement that would otherwise be sent by the
County Treasurer to the person by regular mail under I.C. 6-1.1-22.5-6;
      (3)   A reconciling tax statement that would otherwise be sent by the
County Treasurer to the person by regular mail under any of the following: (a)
I.C. 6-1.1-22-9, (b) I.C. 6-1.1-22-9.7, (c) I.C. 6-1.1-22.5-12, including a
statement that reflects installment payment due dates under I.C. 6-1.1-22.5-
18.5;
      (4)   A statement that would otherwise be sent by the County Auditor to
the person by regular mail under I.C. 6-1.1-17-3(b);
      (5)   Any other information that:
         (a)   Concerns the property taxes or special assessments; and
         (b)   Would otherwise be sent:
            1.   By the County Treasurer or the County Auditor to the person by
regular mail; and
            2.   Before the last date the property taxes or special assessments
may be paid without becoming delinquent.
   (C)   This section takes effect with the ______[select first or second]
installment of property taxes of ______[select tax billing year for ordinance
to be effective] and shall continue indefinitely.
   (D)   Notice shall be given to county taxpayers of the option to direct
electronic transmission of statements and other information for property taxes
and special assessments in compliance with all applicable statutory provisions.
   (E)   The County Treasurer and County Auditor shall have the authority to
electronically submit to county taxpayers their statements and other
information for property taxes and special assessments first due and payable
after 2011.
   (F)   The County Auditor and County Treasurer are authorized to negotiate
and execute a contract with a provider to obtain such administrative,
technical, clerical and related services (“e-billing services”) in order to
implement a program for the electronic transmission of statements and other
information for property taxes and special assessments.
   (G)   The e-billing services contract shall provide for the delivery of such
services by a contractor in compliance with all applicable statutory provisions
for the electronic transmission of statements and other information for
property taxes and special assessments. The e-billing services contract shall
also provide for the payment of fee(s) for each parcel that a county taxpayer
elects to participate in the electronic transmission of statements and other
information for property taxes and special assessments.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 32.10  INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Knox County hereby adopts as policy the internal control standards as
set forth by the Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control
Standards as expressly written and published by the Indiana State Board of
Accounts dated September 15, 2015, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   All officers, elected officials and employees are required to comply
with these standards. Employees who fail to comply with this section are
subject to discipline, including but not limited to termination of employment.
   (C)   An Oversight Committee is established to implement the Standards and
co-ordinate the training of all those required by law to receive training.
   (D)   The Oversight Committee will consist of the following persons or their
designee: One Knox County Commissioner, One Knox County Councilperson, Auditor,
Treasurer, Recorder, Clerk, Health Department Director, Sheriff, Chief
Probation Officer, Superintendent Park and Recreation Department, and County
Attorney.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-18-2016)
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 32.20  "KNOX COUNTY FIRST" POLICY.
   (A)   There is herein enacted a purchasing policy for all departments and
offices of the county government to be known as KNOX COUNTY FIRST, defined as:
all officeholders and employees of departments and offices of the county
government shall make every effort to first purchase goods and services needed
for the department or office at a business located within the boundaries of the
county.
   (B)   Provided, however, that, Knox County First shall not apply whenever:
      (1)   The good or service needed is not available within the boundaries
of the county; or
      (2)   The officeholder, employee or department head has been granted a
waiver of the Knox County First policy by the County Council.
   (C)   The County Auditor is herein directed to immediately disseminate a
copy of this section to every officeholder and department head for posting in
all offices of the county government.
(Council Res. 2007-6, passed 1-25-2007)
§ 32.21  PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   (A)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
county purchases and shall be purchased unless the county determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; and
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (B)   This section is effective upon passage and signing by the presiding
officer.
(Ord. 12-1998, passed - -1998)
§ 32.22  PURCHASING AGENCY; AGENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby determines that it is the purchasing
agency for the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby designates the following persons to
serve as purchasing agents for the county:
      (1)   Each elected county official;
      (2)   Each Circuit, Superior Court Judge;
      (3)   The County Highway Superintendent; and
      (4)   County employees as are designated from time to time, in writing.
   (C)   This section is effective upon the passage and signing by the
presiding officer.
(Ord. 11-1998, passed 6-29-1998)
FEES
§ 32.35  FEE SCHEDULE.
Type Fee Ord. No. Date Passed
Type                                  Fee                Ord. No.  Date Passed
Birth certificates                    $15                10-2014   10-20-2014
Change of zoning petition             $100               R. 1-2010 - -2010
Conditional use application           $50                R. 1-2010 - -2010
Copies from Surveyor's office                            2000-7    4-3-2000
   24" x 18" blueprint copies      $1 per sheet
   24" x 36" blueprint copies      $2 per sheet
   48" x 36" blueprint copies      $4 per sheet
   24" x 36" ink jet bond computer $5 per sheet
plots
   48" x 36" ink jet bond computer $10 per sheet
plots
   24" x 36" vellum computer plots $6 per sheet
   48" x 36" vellum computer plots $11 per sheet
Correction Certificate or Affidavit   $18                10-2014   10-20-2014
Death certificates                    $18                10-2014   10-20-2014
Development of broad significance     $100               R. 1-2010 - -2010
petition
Final plat of major subdivision       $15 per lot        R. 1-2010 - -2010
application
Immunization records                  $5 per page        8-2004    6-7-2004
Immunization shots from Health        $8                 4-2005    2-7-2005
Department clinics
Improvement location permit           $40                R. 1-2010 - -2010
application
Insufficient funds checks             $25                7A-2004   9-20-2004
Lead testing                          $15 per test       28-2006   8-7-2006
Minor subdivision petition            $60                R. 1-2010 - -2010
Obstructions removal petition filing  $100               16-1998   - -1998
fee
Paternity Affidavit                   $18                10-2014   10-20-2014
Plan Commission permits, applications
or petitions not otherwise listed     $40                R. 1-2010 - -2010
herein
Plan Commission; where work has
commenced or use has occurred prior
to the issuance of any permit         Double fee set out
required or receipt of any approval   above, plus any    R. 1-2010 - -2010
required, then payment of a fee equal legal fees
to twice the standard applicable fee,
plus any legal fees incurred by the
Commission
                                      $350 for up to 10
Planned unit development petition     lots; $20 for each R. 1-2010 - -2010
                                      additional lot
Preliminary plat of major subdivision $350 for up to 10
application                           lots; $20 for each R. 1-2010 - -2010
                                      additional lot
Real property endorsements made by    $3                 7-1992    8-3-1992
County Auditor
Supplemental recording fee            $3 per single      14-1995   6-19-1995
                                      document
Tattoo establishments                 $300               10-2014   10-20-2014
Tattoo permits                        $75                10-2014   10-20-2014
TB skin testing                       $15 per test       2004-13   12-20-2004
Vacation petitions                    $500 per property  9-2006    3-6-2006
                                      owner
                                      $20 for first one;
Variance application                  $10 for each       R. 1-2010 - -2010
                                      additional
 
(Council Res. 2016-4, passed 12-19-2016)
CHAPTER 33:  ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Section
   
33.01   Universal 911 emergency telephone number
§ 33.01  UNIVERSAL 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBER.
   (A)   All units of government, business, homes, institutions, offices,
facilities, farms, plants and all others use the universal 911 emergency
telephone number 9-1-1 to report a crime, request assistance of an emergency
response vehicle (police, fire or EMS) to their location, and to report
emergencies in progress.
   (B)   All alarm companies shall report alarms to county central dispatch so
that the proper response can be dispatched.
(Res. 3-2010, passed 5-17-2010)
CHAPTER 34:  COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Caucuses; leaders
   
34.02   Home rule
   
34.03   Display of historical documents
   
34.04   Multi-hazard mitigation plan
   
34.05   Duplex copying procedure
   
34.06   County Courthouse business hours
   
34.07   Thermostat control
   
34.08   Accessibility of polling places
   
34.09   Public Safety Departments and interoperable communications
   
34.10   ADA grievance policy and procedure
   
34.11   County ADA plan adopted
 
   
34.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Contracting with the county; nepotism; personnel policies adopted, see §
31.01
   Electronic transmission of statements and information for property taxes and
special assessments, see §
32.09
§ 34.01  CAUCUSES; LEADERS.
   (A)   Members of the County Council may attend caucuses, which are
gatherings of members of a political party or coalition held for purposes of
planning political strategy and holding discussions designed to prepare the
members for taking official action. No caucus shall be deemed an official part
of the Council or any committee of the Council. A caucus may review public
information and discuss the political ramifications of expected issues,
anticipated official action and public business. The caucuses may not take any
official action and shall not vote upon any matter pending before the Council
or one of its committees in accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5.
   (B)   The members of the County Council belonging to each political party
shall hold separate caucuses and each shall elect a caucus leader. The caucus
leader of the party, which has the allegiance of the greatest number of members
of the County Council, shall be called the "majority leader". The caucus leader
of the other parties shall be called "minority leaders". The election of caucus
leaders shall be official upon filing with the County Auditor a certificate of
election signed by the members of the caucus.
(Res. 2001-4, passed 1-8-2001)
§ 34.02  HOME RULE.
   The county hereby adopts its County "Home Rule" Ordinance pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-1-3-1, in order that the county shall have all of the
powers and authority pursuant to the statute.
(Ord. 10-1995, passed 5- -1995)
§ 34.03  DISPLAY OF HISTORICAL DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-1-16-2, the Vincennes
Historical and Antiquarian Society be permitted to create, at no cost to the
county, a display of monuments of historical documents to be located on the
lawn of the County Courthouse. The display shall consist of five granite
monuments, including the existing ten commandments monument and four new
monuments.
   (B)   The four new monuments will include the following historical
documents: the opening lines to the Declaration of Independence, § 13 of the
Northwest Ordinance, the Bill of Rights, and the county proclamation of 6-20-
1790.
(Ord. 3-2001, passed 5-7-2001; Council Ord. 8-2001, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 34.04  MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The County Emergency Management Agency will submit on behalf of the
participating municipalities the adopted Multi-Hazard Mitigation plan to the
State Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management
Agency for final review and approval.
(Res. 7-2009, passed 5-11-2009)
§ 34.05  DUPLEX COPYING PROCEDURE.
   All county governmental offices implement duplex copying of all documents
greater than one page.
(Res. 1-1995, passed - -1995)
§ 34.06  COUNTY COURTHOUSE BUSINESS HOURS.
   Only employees of the county working on county business shall utilize or be
present in the County Courthouse at any time when the County Courthouse is not
open for business or for a public meeting and it is hereby ordained to be
unlawful for any person to be in the County Courthouse after 4:00 p.m. on week
days or at anytime on the weekend unless the person is working within the scope
of his or her employment with the county or attending a lawfully convened
public meeting.
(Ord. 7-1980, passed 9-29-1980)  Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.07  THERMOSTAT CONTROL.
   The County Courthouse and other county-owned buildings will follow the new
federally set guide lines for thermostat control for heating and cooling the
buildings.
(Res. 11-1979, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 34.08  ACCESSIBILITY OF POLLING PLACES.
   (A)   Subject to the availability of Title III requirement monies to the
county under the Help American Vote Act of 2002 no later than 10-1-2004, the
county will make all permanent and temporary improvements to each polling place
not later than 10-1-2004 to comply with the polling place accessibility
standards set forth in I.C. 3-11-8, and to the extent possible, make any
additional improvements identified in the May 2004 HAVA polling place survey
that are not specifically required by state of federal law.
   (B)   The county will submit a report to the State Election Division no
later than 12-31-2004 (or no later than 12-31-2005 for reimbursement approved
after 2003). The report under this section must list the polling place
accessibility problems identified in the May 2004 survey of polling places and
indicate whether these problems have been resolved by temporary or permanent
improvements, or whether the polling place has been relocated to an accessible
facility. If the report indicates that the problems have not yet been resolved,
the report must indicate how the county will resolve the problem no later than
3-31-2006. The county agrees to submit any additional reports required by the
State Election Division until the county reports that the polling place
accessibility requirements identified in the May 2004 survey have been
resolved. The report must be certified as accurate by majority vote of the
County Election Board, following review and opportunity for written comments to
be added to the report by the local Advisory Council described in division (E)
below.
   (C)   The county acknowledges that the Secretary of State and Co-Directors
of the State Election Division may extend the 10-1-2004 deadline until 3-31-
2006, for a specific polling place, if it is impossible or impractical for the
county to ensure the polling place's compliance by 10-1-2004.
   (D)   As of 12-31-2005, each polling place will contain at least one voting
system to permit a voter who is blind or visually impaired to vote privately
and independently.
   (E)   No later than 12-31-2003, the county legislative body will adopt an
ordinance to establish a local Advisory Council comprised of representatives of
the disabilities community and elderly voters to provide assistance to the
county in choosing polling places. The Council may include any number of
members, but must include at feast two representatives of the disabilities
communities or elderly voters. The county executive shall appoint the members
and shall encourage county residents with a variety of backgrounds partisan
affiliations and perspectives to participate. If county residents are not
available to serve of the Council, the county executive may partner with the
Governor's Planning Council on Disabilities to carry out the functions of the
Council.
   (F)   The county fiscal body pledges that § 101 and Title III monies
received by the county will be used to pay any outstanding obligations incurred
by the county for the voting system purchase subject to the reimbursement.
   (G)   The county fiscal body pledges that if the obligations incurred by the
county to obtain this voting system have been paid in full or in part as of
this date, that the remaining § 101 and Title III reimbursement funds will be
used to improve the administration of elections for federal office in the
county.
   (H)   No later than 30 days after adoption of this section, the county will
establish a separate non-reverting account in which all § 101 reimbursement
funds will be deposited.
   (I)   No later than 30 days after adoption of this section, the county will
establish a separate non-reverting account in which all Title III reimbursement
funds will be deposited.
   (J)   The county agrees to refund to the state no later than 5-1-2006 an
amount equal to the § 101 and Title III reimbursement funds received by the
county if the Secretary of State and the Co-Directors of the State Election
Division determine on 3-1-2006 that the county has not:
      (1)   Replaced the lever voting machines (or punch card voting systems)
in each precinct of the county no later than 12-31-2005; or
      (2)   Honored one or more of the certifications made by the county in
this section regarding polling place accessibility or permitted uses of these
funds.
(Res. (joint) 15-2003, passed 12-9-2003)
§ 34.09  PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENTS AND INTEROPERABLE COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   All units of government that are involved with "Project Hoosier
Safety" and/or the County Central Dispatch System within the bounds of the
county shall from this time forward use, share, and maintain the shared common
two-way 800 MHZ. trunked radio communications system; and
   (B)   Any new, replaced, repaired, upgraded, and/or re-banded device which
is used for communications shall be fully compatible for two-way communications
with all technical specifications needed in order to fully function and
interoperate with the county's shared common 700/800 MHZ. trunked radio
communications system, X7 P25 Platforms and with "Project Hoosier Safety" and
Knox County Central Dispatch.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners will only allow on the shared common
communications system of the county devices that meet the above two-way
requirement, the technical specifications requirements, and contain "Omni-Link"
or approved equivalent interoperation software which allows full functionality
on the shared two-way communications system, "Project Hoosier Safety", and Knox
County Central Dispatch.
   (D)   The County Board of Commissioners will only allow on the shared common
communications system of the county pager type devices that meet the approval
of the County Board of Commissioners and that can be operated on a shared
platform operated by the County Central Dispatch, and in conjunction with a
fully functionality two-way radio used by the same responder.
(Res. 2007-2, passed 3-19-2007; Ord. passed 5-11-2009
§ 34.10  ADA GRIEVANCE POLICY AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Policy. In accordance with the requirements of Title II of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), and ADA Amendments Act of 2008,
the county does not discriminate against qualified individuals with
disabilities on the basis of disability in its services, programs or
activities.
   (B)   Grievance procedure.
      (1)   (a)   Any person or their representative may file a grievance if
you believe that:
            1.   The county is not in compliance with the physical access
requirements of the ADA as it relates to county facilities, land or rights-of-
way.
            2.   You, or a specific class of individuals, have been denied
access to participate in any county program, service or activity due to your
disability.
            3.   You, or a specific class of individuals, have been otherwise
subjected to discrimination on the basis of your disability.
            4.   The county has otherwise violated the ADA or its amendments.
         (b)   A grievance should be filed as soon as possible within 60
calendar days of the alleged discrimination.
         (c)   The grievance must be in writing on the county’s grievance form.
The grievance form is available from the County Auditor at the County
Courthouse.
         (d)   If needed the Auditor will provide assistance completing the
grievance form.
         (e)   The grievance form must be filed with the County Auditor either
in person or by mailing to:
            Knox County ADA Grievance
            C/O Knox County Auditor
            111 N. 7th St. STE: 5
            Vincennes, IN 47591
      (2)   Investigation and resolution of complaint.
         (a)   The county will investigate the alleged discrimination with 30
calendar days after it is filed.
         (b)   Once the investigation is complete the county will issue a
written response to the complainant. This response will be made no later than
40 calendar days after the complaint is filed.
         (c)   If the grievance can not be resolved without the expenditure of
funds, then the grievance will be presented to the County Commissioners at
their next scheduled meeting. The complainant will be notified in writing of
the date, time and place of the meeting.
         (d)   Once the County Commissioners make a decision with regard to the
grievance, the complainant will be notified in writing as soon as possible but
not later than 30 days after the meeting at which final action is taken.
      (3)   Appeal of decision.
         (a)   Any decision of the County Commissioners may be appealed by
submitting a written communication setting forth the complainant’s disagreement
with the decision of the County Commissioners within 30 days after receipt of
the county’s decision with regard to the complaint. Appeals should be mailed to
the address set forth in division (B)(1)(e) of this section.
         (b)   The County Commissioners will review the appeal and respond
within 30 days of receipt of the appeal. The County Commissioners may designate
a representative of the county to meet with complainant to discuss resolution
of the complaint prior to issuing its appeal decision.
   (C)   Other remedies. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to be a
prerequisite to a complainant pursuing any and all remedies available under
state or federal law.
   (D)   Grievance form. The County Auditor is authorized to adopt a grievance
form for use in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2012-12, passed 9-5-2012)
§ 34.11  COUNTY ADA PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The county adopts as its ADA Transition Plan the document dated
February, 2013 and attached to Commissioners Ordinance No. 4-2013, adopted
March 20, 2013.
   (B)   The County ADA Transition Plan is in effect immediately upon passage.
(Ord. 4-2013, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or firm who violates §
34.06 commits an infraction and shall be fined not more than $500 to which may
be added the cost of the action.
(Ord. 7-1980, passed 9-29-1980)
CHAPTER 35:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions and Definitions
   
35.01   Applicability of subchapter
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Liberal construction of powers
   
35.04   Nonsupersession of powers of Sheriff
   
35.05   Nonsupersession of other powers
Organization and Administration
   
35.20   Emergency Management Advisory Council
   
35.21   Organization of the Emergency Management Department
   
35.22   Director of Emergency Management
   
35.23   General powers and duties of Director
   
35.24   Deputy Director
   
35.25   Powers and duties of Commissioners
   
35.26   Emergency management volunteers
   
35.27   Personnel
   
35.28   Budget and finance
   
35.29   Comprehensive emergency management plan
   
35.30   Countywide emergency management
Emergency Powers, Regulations, and Procedures
   
35.40   Applicability of subchapter
   
35.41   Pre-disaster responsibilities
   
35.42   Special emergency powers and duties of principal executive officer
   
35.43   Emergency meeting of Commissioners
   
35.44   Special emergency powers in absence of Board quorum
   
35.45   Special emergency powers and duties of Commissioners
   
35.46   Special emergency powers and duties of Director
   
35.47   Designation of local travel advisory
   
35.48   Duties of county officers and employees during an emergency
   
35.49   Priorities of emergency orders, rules, and regulations
   
35.50   Violations; enforcement
Construction of Chapter; Effect
   
35.60   Construction of chapter
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
§ 35.01  APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter, unless otherwise indicated, also apply
to, govern, and refer to matters contained in §§
35.20et seq.,
35.40et seq.,
35.60, and
35.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL. The Knox County Emergency Management Advisory Council as
established under §
35.20 of this chapter.
   COMMISSIONERS. Those elected public officials who serve on the Board of
Commissioners of the County of Knox.
   COUNTY. The County of Knox, State of Indiana.
   DIRECTOR. The County Director of Emergency Management as established and
appointed pursuant to §
35.22 of this chapter.
   EMERGENCY. A condition resulting from enemy attack, or other hostile action,
or from natural, manmade, or technological disasters, which cannot be handled
by normal operating personnel or facilities.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the execution of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which the military forces are primarily
responsible, for protection against and to minimize and repair injury and
damage resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action or by
natural and manmade disasters.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management including persons and private
agencies or governmental units offering services to the county during emergency
situations or mutual aid to other emergency agencies who request assistance.
   MANMADE DISASTER. Any manmade condition such as riots, strikes,
insurrections, or other civil disturbances.
   NATURAL DISASTER. Any condition affecting or threatening public health,
welfare, or security as a result of flood, drought, tornado, snow, or other
natural cause.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated by the Board of
Commissioners of the County of Knox to participate in emergency activities
pursuant to §
35.21(A)(4); and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a
municipality or other municipal corporation, or a volunteer organization
designated to participate in the county’s emergency management programs and
activities pursuant to a cooperative or mutual aid agreement entered into
pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-16 and §
35.23(A)(5) of this chapter.
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY. As referred to in I.C. 10-14-
3 for purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred to
hereinafter, shall mean the presiding officer of the Board of Commissioners of
the County of Knox. The presiding officer shall be the regularly designated
President of the Board; provided, however, if he or she is absent or
incapacitated, and the Board has a regularly designated President Pro Tempore,
then the President Pro Tempore shall be the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER. If the
President is absent or incapacitated and there is no designated President Pro
Tempore, then the remaining two Commissioners shall select among themselves one
to be presiding officer in the same manner as when an ordinary business meeting
needs to be conducted in the absence of the President. If both the President
and another Commissioner are absent or incapacitated, then the remaining
Commissioner shall be the presiding officer. If all of the Commissioners are
absent or incapacitated, then the County Administrator shall be the PRINCIPAL
EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY.
   TECHNOLOGICAL DISASTER. Incidents such as severe fire, explosions, hazardous
material spills, radiological exposure, and other technological problems which
are beyond the control of regular forces.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.03  LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
indispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to prevent, cope with, or
make more tolerable emergency conditions. All powers, both ministerial and
discretionary, conferred herein shall be liberally construed and shall be
construed as intending to supplement and augment, and not to limit, any other
powers or reasonable exercise of discretion which may ordinarily pertain to
county officers, employees, departments, and agencies.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.04  NONSUPERSESSION OF POWERS OF SHERIFF.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or limit any statutory
powers of the County Sheriff to determine, respond to, and provide for the
control of public disasters and other emergency situations under the provisions
of I.C. 10-16-7-9 and 10-16-7-10, as amended.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.05  NONSUPERSESSION OF OTHER POWERS.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or limit the powers of any
political subdivision under I.C. 10-14-3 to adopt and implement emergency
plans, and promulgate and enforce special emergency regulations and procedures
in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such political subdivision.
However, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22, such regulations and procedures as
promulgated by the political subdivision may not be inconsistent with the
county emergency management regulations and procedures.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.20  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17, there is established and confirmed
a Knox County Emergency Management Advisory Council which shall consist of the
following individuals or their designees:
      (1)   The President of the Board of Commissioners of the county;
      (2)   The President of the County Council;
      (3)   The mayor of each city located in the county;
      (4)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns in
the county who shall be appointed by the Commissioners after receiving
recommendations from such legislative bodies;
      (5)   Representatives of such private and public agencies or
organizations which can be of assistance to emergency management as the
Commissioners consider appropriate or as may be added later by the Advisory
Council. Including but not limited to Good Samaritan Hospital and Duke Energy;
and
      (6)   The commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county, if
existing, as appointed by the Commissioners, or the commander’s designee.
   (B)   Members of the Advisory Council shall serve at the pleasure of the
appointing authority. Individuals who are members of the Advisory Council at
the time this chapter takes effect may remain as members and may continue to
serve on the Advisory Council until their present terms expire. The Advisory
Council shall exercise general supervision and control over the emergency
management program in the county.
   (C)   The Advisory Council shall cause an Emergency Management Director to
be selected in accordance with §
35.22 below, who shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, and operation of the emergency management program in the
county, and who shall be responsible to the chairman of the County Advisory
Council.
   (D)   The Advisory Council shall have and select a Chairman, Vice-Chairman,
and Recording Secretary. The Advisory Council shall meet at least bi-annually.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.21  ORGANIZATION OF THE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established and confirmed a Department of Emergency
Management within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose
of utilizing to the fullest extent possible the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any emergency
as defined in §
35.02 of this chapter. The Director of Emergency Management shall be
responsible for its organization, administration, and operation. The Department
shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An executive head of the Department of Emergency Management, who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management, appointed in accordance
with §
35.22;
      (2)   One or more “Deputy Directors” who may be appointed by the Director
with the approval of the Advisory Council;
      (3)   Emergency management volunteers as deemed necessary and appointed
by the Director in accordance with §
35.26;
      (4)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all county departments
and agencies
suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management and designated by the
Commissioners to participate in the emergency management activity;
      (5)   Staff officers with responsibility for emergency support functions
as established in the county’s comprehensive emergency management plan
including warning, communications, radiological, health, emergency care,
police, fire, light rescue, public education, and transportation, who may be
appointed by the Director but which positions shall be, so far as possible,
additional duty assignments to existing personnel; and
      (6)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees as deemed
necessary to the proper functioning of the Department, who may be appointed by
the Director.
   (B)   However, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no
compensated position may be established within the Department of Emergency
Management nor any person appointed to such position without the authorization
of the Commissioners and the County Council pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3(a) and
the making of sufficient appropriations to pay such compensation. This
provision does not give the County Council any power or approval over
particular candidates for any positions, but refers only to its general
statutory powers to determine the numbers of officers, deputies, and employees
of county departments, classify positions, and adopt schedules of compensation.
In addition, it is also the intent of this section that emergency management
and disaster assignments shall be as nearly consistent with normal duty
assignments as possible.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.22  DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   At any time that a vacancy exists or a term expires in the office of the
Director, the Advisory Council shall select the Director of Emergency
Management subject to the approval of the Commissioners. In the event the
individual selected by the Advisory Council is not approved by the
Commissioners, the Advisory Council shall select another individual to serve as
Director, which process shall be repeated until approval of the Director is
obtained from the Commissioners. Qualifications for the Director will be
determined by the Advisory Council subject to the approval of the
Commissioners. The Commissioners may dismiss the Director for cause upon
determining the Director to be inadequate to fulfill his or her
responsibilities, which shall include dereliction of duties (including failure
to provide the State Department of Homeland Security Director required annual
reports and documentation), malfeasance in office, incompetence,
insubordination, or deliberate disregard of the directives of superior county
or state authorities, or physical or mental incapacity to perform his or her
duties.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.23  GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, subject to the supervision, direction, and control of
the Advisory Council, shall be executive head of the Department of Emergency
Management and shall have responsibility for its organization, administration,
and operation, including the following specific powers and duties:
      (1)   The Director shall be responsible for public relations,
information, and education regarding all phases of emergency management.
      (2)   The Director shall be responsible for the development of a county
comprehensive emergency management plan, and upon adoption, shall be
responsible for such implementation, and revision of the plan as to maintain it
on a current state of readiness at all times. This plan shall include all major
cities within the county.
      (3)   The Director shall coordinate, with Knox County political
subdivisions, all activities for emergency management and shall maintain
liaison and coordinate with all other affected agencies, public and private.
      (4)   The Director shall coordinate the recruitment and training of
volunteer personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the
county for emergency management purposes.
      (5)   The Director may seek, negotiate, and enter into (with the approval
of the Commissioners and to the extent consistent with the State Department of
Homeland Security comprehensive emergency management plan) mutual-aid
arrangements with other public and private agencies for emergency management
purposes, and take all steps in accordance with such arrangements to comply
with or take advantage thereof in the event of an actual emergency affecting
the parties.
      (6)   The Director may, when such offer has been approved by the Governor
and the Commissioners, accept any offer of the federal government to provide
for the use of the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials, or
funds for emergency management purposes by way of gift, grant or loan.
      (7)   The Director, with the approval of the Commissioners, may seek and
accept from any person, firm or corporation, any gratuitous offers to provide
services, equipment, supplies, materials, funds, and licenses or privileges to
use real estate or other premises, to the county for emergency management
purposes.
      (8)   The Director may issue proper insignia and papers to emergency
management workers and other people directly concerned with emergency
management.
   (B)   The Director, in addition to the powers and duties expressly provided
above, shall be construed to  have all powers and duties of a local emergency
management director as provided under I.C. 10-14-3.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.24  DEPUTY DIRECTOR.
   If a Deputy Director has been appointed pursuant to §
35.21(A)(2) of this chapter, he or she shall during normal times assist the
Director in the performance of his or her duties. During an emergency, the
Deputy Director shall assist the Director and fulfill the duties of the
Director in the absence or inability of the Director to serve.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.25  POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The powers and duties of the Commissioners pertaining to emergency
management in times of normal county operation are to:
   (A)   Maintain general supervision and knowledge of the planning and
administration for the Department of Emergency Management;
   (B)   Adopt the comprehensive emergency management plan for the county;
   (C)   Coordinate the emergency management activities and make assignments of
emergency management duties to county forces in order to meet situations not
covered in the normal duties and powers of such agencies. In addition, the
Commissioners may take all necessary action to conduct tests of the emergency
management plans. Emergency management tests may be conducted at any time with
or without prior notification. All emergency tests conducted within the
boundaries of the county shall be coordinated with the Department of Emergency
Management, the County Sheriff’s Department, and the County Public Safety
Communications Center; and
   (D)   Perform all other powers and duties reserved or assigned to them under
this chapter and under I.C. 10-14-3.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.26  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   The Director shall make sure that all emergency management personnel
meet the following qualifications before he or she is sworn in as a member:
      (1)   Be at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Not be convicted of a felony;
      (3)   Complete and have on file an application form; and
      (4)   Take an oath in writing as provided in I.C. 10-14-3-27.
   (B)   Upon satisfaction of the above requirements, the applicant is
officially a member of the Knox County Department of Emergency Management.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.27  PERSONNEL.
   In general, any paid employees of the Department of Emergency Management
shall have the same employment status and shall be governed by the same uniform
personnel policies, rules, and procedures that apply to other county employees.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.28  BUDGET AND FINANCE.
   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation of the
budget. The County Council shall appropriate such funds as it may deem
appropriate for the purpose of emergency management. All funds appropriated or
otherwise available to the Department of Emergency Management shall be
administered by the Director, subject to the approval of the Commissioners, in
the same manner as provided by law or ordinance for other county funds, except
as otherwise provided under §
35.45(A)(9) through (A)(11) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.29  COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   Consistent with the requirements of federal preparedness assistance, the
county does hereby adopt and establish the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) as developed and administered by the Secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security as the county standard for incident management. The county by
doing so will seek a coordinated effort from all agencies to effectively and
efficiently provide the highest level of incident management. Furthermore, the
county recognizes the need to utilize standardized terminology, organizational
structures, interoperable communications, consolidated action plans, unified
command structures, uniform personnel qualifications, uniform standards for
planning, training and. exercising, comprehensive resource management, and
designated incident facilities during emergencies or disasters. In a manner
consistent with NIMS, a county comprehensive emergency management plan shall be
developed by the Director and the Advisory Council and submitted to the
Commissioners for consideration and approval. The plan shall be developed so as
to be in compliance and consistent with the requirements of applicable state
and federal law and regulations. In the preparation of this plan, as it
pertains to county organizations, it is the intent that the services,
equipment, facilities, and personnel of all existing departments and agencies
shall be utilized to the fullest extent possible. In addition, all
participating emergency service agencies that develop internal plans shall
coordinate those plans with the Department of Emergency Management in order to
include such plans with the county comprehensive emergency management plan.
When approved, the county departments and agencies shall perform the functions
and duties assigned by the plan and maintain their portion of the plan in a
current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.30  COUNTYWIDE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   Except as provided by §§
35.04 and
35.05 of this chapter, the jurisdiction of the County Department of Emergency
Management, the jurisdiction and applicability of the county’s comprehensive
emergency management plan as adopted pursuant to §
35.29, and the exercise of any powers of the principal executive officer of the
county and the Commissioners under this chapter, shall be comprehensive and
inclusive countywide and effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated
areas of the county.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS, AND PROCEDURES
§ 35.40  APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter applies whenever:
   (A)   A disaster emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Governor pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12 and 10-14-3-13;
   (B)   A disaster emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the principal executive officer of the county pursuant to I.C. 10-
14-3-29;
   (C)   A presumptive state of emergency is deemed to exist affecting all or
part of the county causing the Director to invoke and implement emergency plans
and procedures in accordance with §
35.47 of this chapter; or
   (D)   When the Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the county’s
emergency plans and procedures in accordance with §
35.25 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.41  PRE-DISASTER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Department of Emergency Management’s primary pre-disaster responsibility
shall be the planning function as prescribed in the county comprehensive
emergency management plan as prescribed for the entire county, including all
cities and towns.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.42  SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   In the event of actual or threatened enemy attack or disaster affecting the
county, the principal executive officer of the county may declare a local
disaster emergency pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29 for any period not to exceed
seven days. The declaration shall be in writing and indicate the nature of the
disaster and the conditions which have brought it about, and the area or areas
threatened and to which the state of emergency applies (which may include the
entire county or only designated parts thereof). The declaration shall be filed
in the offices of the County Clerk and the clerk of any incorporated
municipality included in the declaration. The declaration is not invalidated
nor ineffective if any of the filing and dissemination requirements cannot be
complied with due to the prevailing adverse circumstances. Such a declaration
is not necessary if the Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12 and 10-14-3-13,
has already proclaimed a statewide or areawide state of emergency including the
county.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.43  EMERGENCY MEETING OF COMMISSIONERS.
   As soon as possible after a disaster emergency affecting the county is
declared either by the Governor or by the principal executive officer of the
county, the principal executive officer of the county shall convene a meeting
of the Commissioners to perform their legislative and administrative functions
as the situation may demand. If the principal executive officer fails or is
unable to perform the above duty, the meeting shall be convened by some other
member of the Board of Commissioners, or by the Auditor or the successively
empowered county officers, in accordance with I.C. 36-2-2-8(a). Any such
meeting of the Commissioners shall automatically be deemed an emergency meeting
subject only to such procedural provisions of law as govern emergency meetings
of County Commissioners, including relaxation of any applicable notice
requirements pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), and may be held in any convenient
and available place. The meeting shall continue without adjournment for the
duration of the disaster emergency but may be recessed for reasonable periods
of time as necessary and permitted by the circumstances.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.44  SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS IN ABSENCE OF BOARD QUORUM.
   In the event that a quorum of the Board of Commissioners cannot be assembled
for purposes of the meeting required under §
35.43 of this chapter, the principal executive officer of the county shall have
all powers and may take all actions of the full Board under §
35.45(A)(2) through (A)(13) of this chapter until the assemblage of a quorum is
possible.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.45  SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   At the meeting convened under §
35.43, the Commissioners may exercise any of their normal executive and
legislative powers to the extent related to the emergency and necessary to deal
therewith. In addition, however, they may also exercise any of the following
special and extraordinary powers:
      (1)   The Commissioners may extend the period of a state of emergency
declared by the principal executive officer pursuant to §
35.42 to last more than seven days if necessary.
      (2)   The Commissioners may terminate the state of emergency, except for
a state of emergency proclaimed by the Governor.
      (3)   The Commissioners may order the activation and implementation of
the county’s comprehensive emergency management plan that has been adopted
pursuant to §
35.29 of this chapter, or such several component parts thereof as may be
relevant to the emergency.
      (4)   The Commissioners may assemble and utilize emergency management
forces, including personnel of the Department of Emergency Department,
participating emergency service agencies, and any other forces at the disposal
of the Commissioners hereunder for emergency management purposes.
      (5)   The Commissioners may order volunteer forces to the aid of the
county, state, or political subdivisions thereof as soon as practicable. Such
volunteer forces will be under the direction of the Department of Emergency
Management.
      (6)   The Commissioners may, to the extent permitted by I.C. 10-14-3 and
subject to its provisions, command services from and/or requisition the use of
equipment, facilities, supplies, or other property belonging to other
organizations, corporations, or private persons as necessary to control the
emergency and protect and provide for the public safety and welfare.
      (7)   The Commissioners may order the evacuation of all or part of the
population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribe routes, modes of
transportation, and destinations for such evacuation.
      (8)   The Commissioners may make provision for availability and use of
temporary emergency housing, which housing need not necessarily comply with any
minimum housing standards, building or zoning regulations, and the like, which
would govern the use and location of premises for housing purposes during
normal times.
      (9)   The Commissioners may suspend, for the duration of the state of
emergency (or for a lesser period as they determine), any provisions of or
procedures prescribed by ordinances of the county if they would be impractical
during the emergency, would interfere with the implementation and carrying out
of emergency plans, or would be inimical to actions necessary to protect the
public safety and welfare; provided, however, that except in accordance with
division (A)(10) hereinafter, the Commissioners may not suspend any provisions
of ordinances or procedures which are mandated by statute.
      (10)   In the event of enemy attack or when the state of emergency has
been proclaimed by the Governor, the Commissioners may waive any procedures or
requirements of statute or of county ordinances reflecting statutory
requirements and mandates in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3.
      (11)   The Commissioners may assign special emergency duties and
functions to any county offices, departments, and agencies irrespective of
their usual duties and functions, and any unexpended and unencumbered monies
budgeted and appropriated (major object classification) may be utilized and
expended for the purpose of carrying out such special emergency duties and
functions.
      (12)   The Commissioners may make and promulgate such emergency
regulations as may be deemed necessary to protect life and property, preserve
order, conserve critical resources, or implement and carry out the provisions
of the county’s or state’s disaster plans, including but not limited to the
power to order the roads closed, establish curfews, close businesses, or any
other action that they deem necessary to save lives and recover from a declared
emergency. This power also includes the power to supplement, modify, or suspend
any general contingency regulations which may have been incorporated as part of
the county’s previously adopted comprehensive emergency management plan. Any
emergency regulations adopted under this division shall not be effective until
promulgated, which promulgation shall be by written filing in the offices of
the County Clerk as required by I.C. 10-14-3-22; provided, however, that should
such filing be impossible because of the emergency situation, such regulations
shall have the full force of law and shall be enforceable by any police officer
in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3.
      (13)   The Commissioners may request the state or the United States or
their agencies and political subdivisions to send aid (including financial
assistance).
   (B)   All actions and regulations under this section may be by executive
order, and need not be made or adopted by ordinance or resolution, but shall be
consistent with and subordinate to any actions, order, or regulations made by
the Governor or a state agency implementing the State Department of Homeland
Security comprehensive emergency management plan.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.46  SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director to make recommendations and
advise the Board of Commissioners or the principal executive officer on any
actions which it would be necessary or desirable to take under §
35.45 of this chapter in the event of an emergency.
   (B)   In the event that an emergency clearly exists or is imminent within
the county, and a state of emergency has not been declared by the Governor nor
is any person having the powers of the principal executive officer of the
county present to declare such an emergency pursuant to §
35.42 of this chapter, the Director may temporarily presume the existence of a
state of emergency even though not officially declared and may, as his or her
own judgment dictates, invoke, implement, and carry out such provisions of the
county’s adopted comprehensive emergency management plan as are necessary to
cope with the emergency and protect the public safety and welfare, and shall be
construed to have all powers necessary and dispensable to doing so to the
extent not specifically limited by statute or specifically limited herein,
until such time as the principal executive officer becomes available. This
section also applies to the Deputy Director to the extent that the Deputy
Director is required to assume the duties of the Director, as provided by §
35.24 of this chapter, in the latter’s absence or incapacitation during the
emergency. Assistance from the Department of Emergency Management may be
rendered without a declaration of an emergency in order to assist local
emergency services in time of need.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.47  DESIGNATION OF LOCAL TRAVEL ADVISORY.
   (A)   If the principal executive officer of the county issues a local travel
advisory as part of an emergency declaration under this chapter, the principal
executive officer shall designate the travel advisory as falling into one of
the following categories:
      (1)   ADVISORY. The lowest level of local travel advisory, means that
routine travel or activities may be restricted in areas because of a hazardous
situation, and individuals should use caution or avoid those areas.
      (2)   WATCH. Means that conditions are threatening to the safety of the
public. During a “watch” local travel advisory, only essential travel, such as
to and from work or in emergency situations, is recommended, and emergency
action plans should be implemented by businesses, schools, government agencies,
and other organizations.
      (3)   WARNING. The highest level of local travel advisory, means that
travel may be restricted to emergency management workers only.
         (a)   During a “warning” local travel advisory, individuals are
directed to:
            1.   Refrain from all travel;
            2.   Comply with necessary emergency measures;
            3.   Cooperate with public officials and disaster services forces
in executing emergency operations plans; and
            4.   Obey and comply with the lawful directions of properly
identified officers.
         (b)   Further and more specific restrictions, including parking
restrictions, may be included in a “warning” local travel advisory.
   (B)   If the Director or the principal executive officer of the county
determines that conditions within the county have created the need for travel
advisory restrictions without a local disaster emergency declaration under this
chapter, the Director or the principal executive officer may issue an
“advisory” or a “watch” level travel advisory.
   (C)   A “warning” level travel advisory may be issued only after a local
disaster emergency is declared under this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.48  DUTIES OF COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES DURING EMERGENCY.
   All officers and employees of the county shall cooperate with and give
active support to the Commissioners and to the County Emergency Management
Director in all emergency management operations, and shall comply with all
orders of the Commissioners and County Emergency Management Director issued
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.49  PRIORITY OF EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.50  VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever this subchapter applies as provided in §
35.40, it shall be unlawful and a penal ordinance violation for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay the Commissioners, the
Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency service agencies,
authorized emergency management volunteers, or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out, and enforcing emergency plans and procedures;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by, and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as made applicable to such person
by the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management, or to otherwise falsely identify or purport
himself or herself to be a county emergency management authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the State of Indiana or any
of its political subdivisions, or any member of the County Department of
Emergency Management or a participating emergency service agency, is hereby
empowered to issue and serve a civil citation against any person found to be
committing an offense described above.
   (C)   A person who knowingly, intentionally, or recklessly violates I.C. 10-
14-3 commits a class B misdemeanor pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-34.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)  Penalty, see §
35.99
CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER; EFFECT
§ 35.60  CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to limit or restrict the rights and
powers of county government with respect to emergency management. The
Commissioners, Emergency Management Director, Emergency Management Advisory
Council, and Department of Emergency Management shall have all rights and
powers as provided in I.C. 10-14-3.
   (B)   Each provision of this chapter shall be construed as separate to the
end that if any part shall be held invalid for any reason, the remainder shall
continue in full force and effect.
   (C)   This chapter shall be effective the later of April 1, 2013 or upon the
date of publication and compliance with applicable legal requirements.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who commits an offense as described in §
35.50(A) and (B) shall be liable to a fine not to exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 4-21-2014)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SOLID WASTE
         
51.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Dumping trash prohibited
   
50.02   Solid Waste District established
Solid Waste Disposal
   
50.15   Title
   
50.16   Purpose
   
50.17   Definitions
   
50.18   Prohibited acts
   
50.19   Investigation
   
50.20   Property owner rights and responsibilities
   
50.21   Enforcement and clean-up
   
50.22   Solid Waste Clean-Up Fund
   
50.23   Application and effective date
Landfill
   
50.35   Definition
   
50.36   Fees
   
50.37   Types of waste prohibited
   
50.38   Landfill Closure/Post-Closure Fund
   
50.39   Effective date
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  DUMPING TRASH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump,
deposit, place or otherwise put trash, debris or other tangible objects upon
any public street, highway or road in the county or upon any right-of-way of
any public street, highway or road in the county or upon any location directly
adjacent to the right-of-way of a public street, highway or road in the county.
   (B)   This section shall become effective from and after the date of its
passage and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 10-1991, passed 10-21-1991)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02  SOLID WASTE DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The county does hereby establish a county solid waste management
district to be known as the Knox County Solid Waste District ("District"),
organized pursuant to I.C. 13-20, to perform all of the functions authorized
and directed by the statute, as it is now promulgated or as the same may
hereafter be modified. The District shall be controlled by a board of seven
members known as the County Solid Waste District Board of Directors.
   (B)   All of the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the county
shall be included in the District.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 13-19 and 13-20, each member of the Board of
Commissioners serves as a member of the District Board of Directors, with terms
to be coextensive with the member's term of office on the Board of
Commissioners of the county.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners hereby appoints the Mayor of the City of
Bicknell, Indiana, to represent the municipalities in the county other than the
largest municipality. The remaining three members shall be appointed as
follows:
      (1)   One member appointed by the County Council from its membership;
      (2)   The Mayor of the City of Vincennes; and
      (3)   One member appointed by the Common Council of the City of
Vincennes, from its membership.
   (E)   This section shall become effective from and after the date of its
passage.
(Ord. 5-1991, passed 5-20-1991)
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 50.15  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be titled "Illegal Dumping Ordinance" and may be cited
as such.
(Ord. 5-1993, passed 12-20-1993)
§ 50.16  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prohibit illegal dumping of solid waste
materials in the county, to establish penalties for violations therefore and to
provide for the method of clean-up of open dumps. Improper disposal at
recycling stations shall also be prohibited.
(Ord. 5-1993, passed 12-20-1993)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Any discarded construction or demolition
materials including, but not limited to, untreated lumber, paneling, drywall,
roofing, shingles, siding, plumbing and electrical components, doors, windows,
floor coverings and cabinets.
   CONTAMINANT. The same definition as that of 329 I.A.C. 2-2-1(a)(2).
   DISCARDING. To abandon, deposit, desert, discharge, dispose, drop, dump,
eliminate, emit, jettison, leave, pitch, place, put, scrap, spill, throw or
toss any items, any solid waste or derivative thereof, or any inherently waste-
like material in a manner so that the discarded substance remains upon the land
as solid waste.
   DUMPING.
      (1)   The discarding or long-term storage of any items of solid waste
commonly known as garbage, rubbish, refuse construction and demolition debris,
household trash, appliances, diapers, food service wastes, tires, scrap metal,
vehicle parts, implement parts, fence wire and all other items and materials
defined as "solid waste" below and in I.C. 13-11-2-105; and
      (2)   The discarding of any vehicles which do not have value beyond scrap
value and which are inoperable and unlicensed or which are considered abandoned
due to the surrounding conditions.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid and semisolid wastes
from the processing, handling preparation, cooking, serving or consumption of
food or food materials.
   GENERATION. The act or process of producing solid waste.
   GENERATOR. The person whose actions or processes result in the production of
solid waste.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.
      (1)   Any waste that, because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may:
         (a)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness;
         (b)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, handled,
disposed of or otherwise managed;
         (c)   Be non-degradable or persistent in the environment;
         (d)   Be biologically magnified;
         (e)   Cause or tend to cause cumulative effects; or
         (f)   Be defined in 40 C.F.R. § 261.3 and any future amendments.
      (2)   The term shall include household hazardous wastes and used oils,
solvents and chemicals.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The same meaning as the term "local health officer" as used
in I.C. 16-20 and shall include his or her authorized agent.
   INERT SOLID WASTE. Earth, rocks, concrete, bricks, tiles or aged asphalt,
natural wood, brush, leaves, wood chips or sawdust, any and all of which is
free from contaminants.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Any waste that is capable of transmitting a communicable
disease. Including, but not limited to, pathological wastes (human tissues,
blood, excreta and secretions), medical and laboratory wastes, contaminated or
fouled bedding, bandages, dressings and diapers, contaminated animal carcasses,
offals, excreta, body parts and bedding and the like.
   LONG-TERM STORAGE. The maintenance or containment of solid waste for a
period of 30 days or more.
   OPEN DUMP. The consolidation of solid waste from one or more sources or the
disposal of solid waste at a single disposal site that does not fulfill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill or other land disposal method as prescribed
by law or regulations, and that exists without daily cover and without regard
to the possibilities of contamination of surface or subsurface water resources,
air, land or other hazard or threat of hazard to the environment or safety.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, company,
organization, joint stock company, municipal corporation, city, school district
or corporation, county, town, association, trust, estate, government unit or
other legal entity.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled and unauthorized removal of materials from
solid waste at any point in the waste management system.
   SOLID WASTE. Any yard waste, garbage, refuse, rubbish, sludge or other
discarded or disposed materials, including solid, liquid or semi-solid, or
contained gaseous material resulting from any operation, activity or source.
   STORAGE. Proper temporary containment of waste materials for a period of no
more than 15 days or the standard interval of local commercial collection
service, whichever is less.
   WASTE STORAGE CONTAINER. A proper and suitable receptacle used for the
temporary storage of solid waste while awaiting collection. CONTAINERS shall be
designed to prevent escape or leakage of contents and should be resistant to
scavenging animals.
(Ord. 5-1993, passed 12-20-1993)
§ 50.18  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Recycling facilities.
      (1)   No person shall discard any materials other than recyclables in any
facility or container intended for collecting designated recyclable materials.
      (2)   No person shall conduct scavenging at any facility or container
intended for collecting materials with value as a designated recyclable
material.
   (B)   Dumping.
      (1)   No person shall discard any solid waste or infectious waste along
any roadway within the county, unless it be in a proper solid waste storage
container and is intended for collection and removal to a facility approved for
handling the materials. No person shall discard any hazardous waste along any
roadway within the county.
      (2)   No person shall discard for final disposal or for use as fill
material any inert solid waste without express consent of the property owner of
the final disposal site, including county road rights-of-way.
      (3)   No person shall discard for final disposal or for use as fill
material any inert solid waste which is mixed or adulterated with any
contaminants.
      (4)   No person shall do any dumping or permit any dumping to take place
at any location in the county unless the location is an approved and properly
permitted landfill site or other final disposal facility.
(Ord. 5-1993, passed 12-20-1993)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19  INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Solid Waste Management District, the
County Health Department and area law enforcement officials serving in the
county to investigate reports of violations of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall be
subject to punishment by fines or sanctions set forth herein.
   (B)   Upon receipt of any complaint or report of a violation of this
subchapter, the County Solid Waste Management District, the County Health
Department or any area law enforcement agency shall conduct an investigation of
the complaint.
   (C)   Items contained in waste materials which bear information such as
names and addresses shall be considered "prima facie" evidence for identifying
the owner or generator of the discarded materials. Witness accounts of any acts
prohibited herein shall be considered as evidence to identify violators. Any
other pertinent evidence may be considered to determine whether a violation of
this subchapter has occurred.
(Ord. 5-1993, passed 12-20-1993)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20  PROPERTY OWNER RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of all persons owning real property in the
county to sustain diligent and good faith efforts to protect the natural
environment and prevent illegal dumping on their property. Persons owning real
property in the county shall not cause or allow the disposal upon their
property of any solid waste materials.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no enforcement action
may be taken under this subchapter against a landowner on whose land waste has
been improperly disposed without the landowner's consent, unless there has been
made a diligent and good faith effort to identify, locate and take enforcement
action against a person or persons who appear likely to have committed or
caused the improper disposal act(s).
   (C)   Any landowner who in good faith provides information concerning a
name, and address, or any other evidence of a responsible person's identity
found in wastes improperly disposed on the landowner's property is not liable
to the person for an action taken by enforcement authorities under this
subchapter against the person as a result of information provided by the
landowner.
   (D)   A landowner on whose land waste has been disposed in violation of this
subchapter without the landowner's consent may, in addition to any other legal
or equitable remedy available to the landowner, recover from the person
responsible for the improper disposal reasonable expenses incurred by the
landowner in removal.
   (E)   A landowner who consents to or allows disposal of wastes generated by
others upon his or her property, without making a diligent and good faith
effort to prevent the improper disposal of wastes, and who fails to notify
proper authorities of the improper acts of disposal within a reasonable period
of time shall be subject to enforcement procedures, and shall be deemed the
responsible party and shall be served notice for clean-up of all wastes
deposited upon his or her property and removal for final disposal at an
approved sanitary landfill, at the landowner's expense.
   (F)   If a diligent and good faith effort by the Solid Waste Management
District, the County Health Department or area law enforcement officials to
identify, locate and take enforcement action against a person or persons who
committed prohibited acts of waste disposal has been made by county
authorities, and has failed to identify violators of acts prohibited herein,
the owner of real estate upon which an open dump is located shall be held
responsible for correcting and controlling any nuisance conditions which may
occur as a result of the open dump.
   (G)   Materials which provide identifying information regarding the
generator shall constitute a rebuttable presumption that the generator has
deposited solid waste without the express consent of the landowner and in
violation of this subchapter. The presumption can be rebutted by proof that:
      (1)   The person obtained the express consent of the landowner; and
      (2)   The person properly placed solid waste a in waste storage container
for pick-up by a licensed waste hauler.
(Ord. 5-1993, passed 12-20-1993)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21  ENFORCEMENT AND CLEAN-UP.
   (A)   (1)   If a condition violating this subchapter exists on real
property, the county may enter onto that property and take appropriate action
to bring the property into compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners designates the County Solid Waste
Management District as its agent to perform the clean-up of improperly disposed
wastes.
      (3)   Before action to bring compliance may be taken, all persons holding
a substantial interest in the property must be given a reasonable opportunity
to bring the property into compliance.
      (4)   If action to bring compliance is taken, the expense involved may be
made a lien against the property.
   (B)   Enforcement of this subchapter shall be brought in accordance with
I.C. 34-28-5.
(Ord. 5-1993, passed 12-20-1993)
§ 50.22  SOLID WASTE CLEAN-UP FUND.
   All fines, penalties and clean-up costs assessed under this subchapter shall
be deposited into the County Solid Waste Clean-Up Fund. Each section, division,
sentence, clause and phrase of this subchapter is declared to be an independent
section, division, sentence, clause and phrase, and the finding or holding of
any section, division, sentence, clause and phrase to be unconstitutional, void
or ineffective for any cause shall not affect another section, division,
sentence, clause and phrase, or part thereof.
(Ord. 5-1993, passed 12-20-1993)
§ 50.23  APPLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to the entirety of the county. All
portions of former ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed or
superseded.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect immediately upon and
after its adoption and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 5-1993, passed 12-20-1993)
LANDFILL
§ 50.35  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the term SOLID WASTE shall have the
meaning prescribed at I.C. 36-9-30-2.
(Ord. 1-1994, passed 9-26-1994)
§ 50.36  FEES.
   (A)   The fees for disposing of solid waste at the County Landfill shall be
at the rate of $24.75 per ton, with a minimum fee of $1 per load. The fees
shall be paid by the operator of a vehicle which disposes of solid waste at the
County Landfill.
   (B)   No fees shall be charged for ferrous and non-ferrous metals, such as
refrigerators, freezers, stoves, hot water heaters and tanks, washing machines
and dryers, (sometimes referred to as "white goods"); provided that, the
ferrous and non-ferrous metals are disposed of at a place or places within the
landfill and in the manner prescribed by the county personnel in charge of the
scales at the landfill.
   (C)   Fees shall be collected by the county personnel in charge of the
scales at the landfill and forwarded to the County Auditor.
   (D)   The County Auditor shall deposit the remainder of the fees, being
$19.75 per ton, in the County General Fund.
   (E)   The County Solid Waste District Board of Directors, established 5-24-
1991, by Ord. 5-1991 of the Board of Commissioners of the county, may add
additional fees for the disposal of solid waste at the County Landfill pursuant
to I.C. 13-20 and 13-22, entitled "Solid Waste Management".
(Ord. 1-1994, passed 9-26-1994)
§ 50.37  TYPES OF WASTE PROHIBITED.
   No tires, asbestos, infectious wastes, radioactive wastes, car bodies, truck
bodies, mobile homes, trailers and other similar items which have not been
disassembled, or waste generated beyond the county (unless specifically
authorized by the County Solid Waste District Board of Directors and the Board
of Commissioners of the county) shall be disposed of at the County Landfill. No
hazardous wastes shall be disposed of at the County Landfill, except in
compliance with I.C. 13-19, 13-20  and 329 I.A.C. 3.1.
(Ord. 1-1994, passed 9-26-1994)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.38  LANDFILL CLOSURE/POST-CLOSURE FUND.
   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Landfill Closure/Post-
Closure Fund. Five dollars of the total fee of $24.75 per ton shall be
deposited by the County Auditor in the Landfill Closure/ Post-Closure Fund.
(Ord. 1-1994, passed 9-26-1994)
§ 50.39  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 10-1-1994.
(Ord. 1-1994, passed 9-26-1994)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
50.01 shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, may be
fined not less than $500 and not more than $1,000.
   (C)   (1)   Any person committing a violation of §§
50.15 through
50.23 shall be fined a sum of not less than $100 and not greater that $2,500
per violation. Each day's continued violation shall constitute a separate
violation of §§
50.15 through
50.23.
      (2)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of §§
50.15 through
50.23 may, in addition to any fines, be assessed all costs and expenses of the
clean-up and removal of solid waste connected with the violation and shall, in
addition, be liable for all reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred by the
county in the enforcement of §§
50.15 through
50.23.
(Ord. 10-1991, passed 10-21-1991; Ord. 5-1993, passed 12-20-1993)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWERS
Section
On-Site Sewage Disposal Systems
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Purpose
   
51.03   Authority
   
51.04   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
51.05   Installer license
   
51.06   Fees
   
51.07   Petition for review
   
51.08   Enforcement
   
51.09   Effective date
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
51.20   Title
   
51.21   Purpose
   
51.22   Authority
   
51.23   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
51.24   Supplemental definitions
   
51.25   System requirements
   
51.26   Permits
   
51.27   Inspections
   
51.28   Petition for review
   
51.29   Fees
 
   
51.99   Penalty
ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 51.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall
be known as the "On-Site Sewage Disposal Permit Issuance Ordinance of Knox
County" and may be cited as such and will be referred to herein as "this
subchapter".
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 4-16-2001)
§ 51.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
licensing of persons constructing, installing, replacing or repairing any part
of an on-site sewage disposal system in the county. The further purposes is the
prevention and suppression of disease and health risks associated with the use
of on-site sewage disposal systems and to otherwise promote public safety and
welfare and protection of the environment.
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 4-16-2001)
§ 51.03  AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer of the county, as hereinafter defined, and the Health
Officer's agents and representatives arc hereby authorized to issue permits,
collect permit and incidental fees, pet form inspections, order or otherwise
compel correction of violations of this subchapter, and are otherwise
authorized to perform all actions necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 4-16-2001)
§ 51.04  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The regulations of the State Department of Health as found in 410
I.A.C. 6-8.1, Residential Sewage Disposal Systems, are hereby incorporated by
reference in this subchapter and shall include any later amendments to those
regulations as the same published in the State Register of the Indiana
Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein. Copies of 410 I.A.C.
6-8.1-1 et seq. are available on file in the office of the County Health
Department and the County Auditor.
   (B)   The regulations of the State Department of Health as found in 410
I.A.C. 6-10, Commercial On-Site Wastewater Disposal, are hereby incorporated by
reference in the subchapter and shall include any later amendments to those
regulations as the same are published in the State Register of the Indiana
Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein. Copies of 410 I.A.C.
6-110-1 et seq. are available and on file in the office of the County Health
Department and the County Auditor.
   (C)   The regulations of the State Department of Health as found in Bulletin
No. S.E. 11, The Sanitary Privy, are hereby incorporated by reference in the
subchapter and shall include any later amendments to those regulations as the
same published in the Indiana Register of the Indiana Administrative Code with
effective dates as fixed therein. Copies of Bulletin No. S.E. 11, The Sanitary
Privy, are available and on file in the office of the County Health Department
and the County Auditor.
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 4-16-2001)
§ 51.05  INSTALLER LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall construct, install, replace, repair or alter any part
of an on-site sewage disposal system in the county until the person is licensed
by the County Health Department as a licensed installer for the type of system
to be installed.
   (B)   In order to become licensed, an individual must:
      (1)   File an application for license;
      (2)   Demonstrate knowledge of the applicable laws, rules and regulations
before becoming licensed by passing a proficiency examination conducted by the
County Health Department;
      (3)   Present a license of liability insurance issued by a company
registered in the state showing coverage for the entire term of the license.
The liability policy shall be sufficient to indemnify persons for whom faulty
work may be performed or a minimum of $300,000;
      (4)   Present a surety bond issued by a company registered in the state
showing coverage in the amount of $7,500. The surety bond shall be filed with
the County Health Board who will control the proceeds of the same in the event
a claim is made against the bond; and
      (5)   Pay an initial fee.
   (C)   Licenses issued hereunder shall be valid for a term of one year
beginning January 1, and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall be
renewed annually. The license shall bear the name and address of the licensed
installer and the expiration date and shall not be transferable. Any license
that is not renewed within one year of the expiration date shall be considered
void and the installer must re-apply for the license and pass the proficiency
test.
   (D)   The installer shall maintain in his or her possession a copy of the
license at all times when installing on-site soil absorption systems.
   (E)   A licensed installer shall be on the site at all times during
construction and shall be deemed responsible for the installation. A licensed
installer may supervise other construction workers as necessary to assist in
the installation.
   (F)   A property owner wishing to install, repair or otherwise work on the
on-site sewage disposal system serving his or her own dwelling shall be
required to demonstrate knowledge of the applicable laws, rules and regulations
by taking the proficiency exam conducted by the Health Department.
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 4-16-2001)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06  FEES.
   (A)   All fees associated with this subchapter shall be determined by the
County Health Board as set out in §
51.29 below.
   (B)   A fee for installer license shall be submitted prior to the issuance
or renewal of the license.
   (C)   A property owner, as described herein, shall be exempt from the
installer license fee.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2-2001, passed 4-16-2001; Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-16-2005)
§ 51.07  PETITION FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   The County Health Board shall hear appeals incidental to the issuance
and revocation of permits if, within 15 days following the date of receipt of
an issued permit, permit modification, notice of permit denial or notice of
permit revocation, any person aggrieved by the action files a petition for
review concerning the action with the Board.
   (B)   The procedures established in I.C. 4-21.5, the Administrative
Procedure and Orders Act, shall apply to the conduct of the hearing.
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 4-16-2001)
§ 51.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed installer found to be in violation of any provision of
this subchapter will be subject to a suspension of the license for a period of
not less than 30 days and no more than one year.
   (B)   If a licensed installer is found to have committed a second violation
of a provision of this subchapter within the 12-month period from the date of
the first violation, the installer will be subject to a suspension of not less
than six months and not more than one year.
   (C)   If a licensed installer is found to have committed a third violation
of a provision of this subchapter within two years from the date of the first
violation, the installer will be subject to a permanent revocation of the
license issued under this subchapter.
   (D)   Any licensed installer found to be violation a suspension will be
subject to a permanent revocation of the license issued under this subchapter.
   (E)   Any person constructing, installing, replacing, repairing or altering
any on-site sewage disposal system that is not licensed or certified in the
county shall be deemed to be in violation of this subchapter. Any such person
in violation of this subchapter shall be fined not more than $500 for the first
offense; and not more than $1,000 for the second and each subsequent offense
   (F)   A VIOLATION is defined as a violation of this subchapter or its
subsequent version and a violation may be one that occurred before the passage
of this amended subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -;  Ord. 2-2001, passed 4-16-2001; Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-16-
2005)
§ 51.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its
adoption and its publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 2-2001, passed 4-16-2001)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 51.20  TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall
be known as the "Private Sewage Disposal Ordinance of Knox County" and may be
cited as such and will be referred to herein as "this subchapter".
(Ord. 15-1995, passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.21  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
prevention and suppression of disease and health risks associated with the use
of private sewage disposal systems and to otherwise promote public safety and
welfare and protection of the environment.
(Ord. 15-1995, passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.22  AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer of the county, as hereinafter defined, and the Health
Officer's agents and representatives are hereby authorized to issue permits,
collect permit and incidental fees, perform inspections, order or otherwise
compel correction of violations of this subchapter, and are otherwise
authorized to perform all actions necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-1995, passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.23  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The regulations of the Indiana State Department of Health as found in
ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 are hereby incorporated by reference in this section
and shall include any later amendments to those regulations as the same are
published in the Indiana Register of the Indiana Administrative Code with
effective dates as fixed therein.
   (B)   Copies of ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 are available and on file in the
office of the County Board of Health and the County Auditor.
(Ord. 15-1995, passed 7-17-1995; Ord. 2013-2, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 51.24  SUPPLEMENTAL DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to or to otherwise supplement those definitions contained in
ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 which is incorporated herein by reference this
subchapter shall include the following definitions:
   BOARD.   Shall include and means the County Board of Health.
   BUSINESS BUILDING.   That building or structure utilized primarily for a
commercial establishment including, but not limited to, office buildings,
apartments, condominiums, motels, mobile home parks, churches, campgrounds,
schools, hospitals, nursing homes, restaurants, etc., at locations where those
facilities may be approvable.
   DUPLEX.   A dwelling as defined in ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 with two
separate living quarters for two separate families.
   HEALTH OFFICER.   Shall include and also means the Health Officer of Knox
County.
   MULTIPLE FAMILY UNITS.   Any building or place used or intended to be used
as a place of seasonal or permanent human habitation or for sleeping for more
than two families.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.   Any land development which requires the specific
zoning classification entitled planned development.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.   Any sewage disposal facility not owned by
a municipality or sanitary district or administered by the State Department of
Health and shall include septic tanks, aeration treatment tanks, finger systems
or other subsurface absorption fields. Included within this definition is a
sewage disposal system for residences and business buildings.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.   A system which provides piped water for human
consumption to at least 15 service connections or at least 25 people at least
60 days out of the year.
   RESIDENCE.   A dwelling, as defined in ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3.
   SANITARY PRIVY.   A privy so located, constructed, and maintained; as
defined in Indiana State Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 11.
(Ord. 15-1995, passed 7-17-1995; Ord. 2013-2, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 51.25 SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   Where a sanitary sewer system is not available, all persons owning, leasing,
or otherwise occupying property shall comply with ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3
and 410 I.A.C. 6-10-1 et seq. and the following provisions of this subchapter
for a private sewage disposal system.
   (A)   No person shall throw, run, drain, seep, or otherwise dispose into any
of the surface waters or ground waters of the county, or cause, permit, or
suffer to be thrown, run, drained, allowed to seep or otherwise disposed into
the waters, any organic or inorganic matter from a private sewage disposal
system that would cause or contribute to a health hazard or water pollution.
   (B)   Privies shall comply with Indiana State Department of Health Bulletin
S.E. 11.  Bulletin S.E. 11 is herein incorporated by reference as part of this
section and two copies are filed in the office of the County Auditor and County
Board of Health for public inspection. In the case of self-contained chemical
toilets, no pit will be required.
   (C)   Should a private sewage disposal system fail, the failure shall be
corrected by the owner or occupant of the property served by the system within
the time limit set by the Health Officer.
   (D)   (1)   Direct connect. Whenever a public sanitary sewerage system
becomes available and is within 300 feet of the property line or property upon
which a building situated within the county, is located and that building is
used as a dwelling or business building and is served by a private sewage
disposal system or privy, a direct connect of the building sewer shall be made
to the sanitary sewer and any septic tanks, seepage pits, outhouses, privy pits
and similar sewage disposal and treatment facilities shall be abandoned and
filled in a safe and sanitary manner. The direct connection to a sanitary
sewerage system shall be made within 180 days of issuance of orders of
connection.
      (2)   Exception.  When the business building or dwelling (or closest part
thereof) that is served by a private sewage disposal system is more than 200
feet from the property line, said building or dwelling shall be exempt from the
requirement of connection to a sanitary sewer so long as an adequate private
sewage disposal is in use serving the building the said system can be
maintained without private sewage disposal system failure.
   (E)   Whenever a new business building or dwelling is to be constructed in
an area where a sanitary sewerage system is available as provided in division
(D) above, a connection shall be made to the sanitary sewer according to plans
submitted for approval prior to construction of any such project.
(Ord. 15-1995, passed 7-17-1995; Ord. 2013-2, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 51.26  PERMITS.
   (A)   Before the commencement of construction, alteration or repair of a
private sewage disposal system, the owner or his or her agent shall apply in
writing to the County Health Office for a permit to construct, alter or repair
a private sewage disposal system, which application shall set out the proposed
date of the intended construction, alteration or repair, topographic and soil
characteristic information as well as other information required in ISDH Rule
410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 and 410 I.A.C. 6-10-6, previously incorporated herein by
reference, and expressly stating that the owner has complied and will at all
times comply with the standards set out in this subchapter. No permit will be
issued if it is determined the issuance of a permit would violate or otherwise
be inconsistent with the provisions of ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3, 410 I.A.C.
6-10-1 et seq., any federal or state statute or regulation and any ordinance of
the county, or would otherwise be reasonably expected to cause or contribute to
any unsanitary condition, an unacceptable probability of ground water
contamination or construction of a private sewage disposal system with an
unacceptable risk of failure.
   (B)   (1)   A permit fee as determined by the County Health Board shall be
payable as provided hereby.
      (2)   A fee for a sewage disposal permit shall be submitted prior to the
issuance of the permit. One-half of the permit fee will be due upon submitted
an application, with the remaining one-half due when the permit is issued.
   (C)   No private sewage disposal system shall serve more than one single
dwelling or business building. No permits will be issued for multiple-family
units served by a private sewage disposal system unless permitted by 410 I.A.C.
6-10-1 et seq.
   (D)   A permit for the installation of a private sewage disposal system,
whether issued prior to or after the adoption of this subchapter, shall lapse
and be void if work has not been started within 180 days and completed within
one year after its issuance.
   (E)   No part of a private sewage disposal system for a residence shall be
located closer than 25 feet to a surface water drain tile, running streams or
surface water drain. The rules and regulations of the Drainage Board will apply
for any legal ditch or drain. All parts of the system must be kept at least 50
feed from any water well.
   (F)   Because of the hazards regarding potential ground water contamination
of wells through the development of subdivisions, planned developments, parcels
and other divisions of land for development the Health Officer may, at the
Health Officer’s discretion, decline to issue a permit for a private sewage
disposal system if the system may cause or contribute to a health hazard or an
unsanitary condition unless a public water supply is provided.
   (G)   Those factors to be considered by the Health Officer in making a
determination to issue or decline to issue a permit unless a public water
supply is provided include, but are not limited to, the requirements of ISDH
Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 and 410 I.A.C. 6-10-1 et seq., soil and geological
conditions, the depth of the water table and the quantity of water available,
evidence of any contaminants existing in the water supply, and the number of
existing or anticipated private sewage disposal systems located within the
general area in which the proposed private sewage disposal system is to be
built.
(Ord. 15-1995, passed 7-17-1995; Ord. passed 5-16-2005; Ord. 2013-2, passed 3-
18-2013)
§ 51.27  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board, its agent, or the Health Officer or his or her agent shall
be permitted to enter upon all properties for purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing necessary to insure compliance
with this subchapter and to verify no private sewage disposal system has
failed.
   (B)   Inspections shall be conducted before construction begins. No
construction of the private sewage disposal system may take place if the
private sewage disposal system site is disturbed or altered after the on-site
evaluation by the addition of fill material (other than construction necessary
for the private sewage disposal system itself) or by cutting, scraping,
compaction or the removal of soil, until a new evaluation has been conducted
and a modified permit has been issued. In the event the on-site inspection
indicates site limitations, either arising from topography or soil
characteristics, the site owner or his or her agent is responsible for
designing a residential or a private sewage disposal system which addresses the
demands of the site in accordance with rules established in ISDH Rule 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3, 410 I.A.C. 6-10-1 et seq. and this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-1995, passed 7-17-1995; Ord. 2013-2, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 51.28  PETITION FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   The County Board of Health shall hear appeals incidental to the
issuance and revocation of permits if, within 15 days following the date of
receipt of an issued permit, permit modification, notice of permit denial or
notice of permit revocation, any person aggrieved by the action files a
petition for review concerning the action with the Board.
   (B)   A petition for review shall state:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number (if applicable) of the
person making the request;
      (2)   Identify the interests of the petitioner which is effected by the
permit issuance, denial, modification or revocation;
      (3)   Identify any persons whom the petitioner represents;
      (4)   State with particularity the reasons for the request;
      (5)   State with particularity the issues proposed to be considered; and
      (6)   Include proposed terms or conditions which, in the judgment of the
petitioner, would be appropriate to carry out the requirements of law and 410
I.A.C. 6-10-1 et seq. or ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 governing the permits.
   (C)   The procedures established in I.C. 4-21.5, the Administrative
Procedure and Orders Act, shall apply to the conduct of the hearing.
(Ord. 15-1995, passed 7-17-1995; Ord. 2013-2, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 51.29  FEES.
   (A)   New residential permits: $80;
   (B)   Residential repair permits: $45;
   (C)   New commercial permits: $150;
   (D)   Commercial repair permits: $75;
   (E)   On-sight sewage disposal system inspections: $75;
   (F)   Installer licensing fees:
      (1)   Initial fee: $112.50; and
      (2)   Renewal fee: $37.50.
   (G)   The County Health Department is hereby authorized and directed to
collect a service fee of $25 for the on-site inspection of existing sewage
disposal systems.
(Ord. 6-1985, passed 6-17-1985; Ord. 2005-13A, passed 5-16-2005; Ord. 11-2014,
passed 10-20-2014)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.20 through
51.28 shall be served by the County Board of Health or the duly appointed
Health Officer with a written order stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit, but not less than 30 days, nor more than 90
days, for correction of any violations of §§
51.20 through
51.28. The written order shall be served either by certified mail or personal
service by the Health Officer of the county or his or her designate.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation of §§
51.20 through
51.28 beyond the time limit provided for correction of any violations of §§
51.20 through
51.28, or who performs any act prohibited herein or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined or who shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful
order given by the Health Officer shall be punished for the first offense by a
fine of $50. Each day a violation of §§
51.20 through
51.28 continues shall constitute a separate offense for which a separate fine
may be levied.
      (3)   Application of §§
51.20 through
51.28 or any part of §§
51.20 through
51.28 is intended to be consistent with ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 and 410
I.A.C. 6-10-1 et seq. Any inconsistency in the direct application of §§
51.20 through
51.28 with the regulations shall be resolved in favor of enforceability of
those regulations.
      (4)   To the extent the provisions of 410 I.A.C. 6-10-1 et seq. and ISDH
Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 are inconsistent with each other then that interpretation
provided by 410 I.A.C. 6-10-1 et seq. shall apply for private sewage disposal
systems serving business buildings and that interpretation provided by ISDH
Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 shall apply for private sewage disposal systems serving
residences.
      (5)   The Health Officer may, in the name of the Commissioners of the
county, bring actions in the County Circuit Court or Superior Courts of the
county for mandatory and injunctive relief for the enforcement of and to secure
compliance with any order or orders made by the Health Officer or to otherwise
provide for the enforcement of §§
51.20 through
51.28. Any action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an
action to recover the penalties, costs and expenses provided in §§
51.20 through
51.28. In the event any legal action is necessary to enforce §§
51.20 through
51.28, the Health Officer may seek recovery of costs and expenses reasonably
incurred to enforce the provisions of §§
51.20 through
51.28 including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 15-1995, passed 7-17-1995; Ord. 2013-2, passed 3-18-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Loads secured on vehicles
   
70.02   Off-road vehicles
   
70.03   Displaced or falling loads
Parking Lots
   
70.15   Definitions
   
70.16   Unlawful parking prohibited
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  LOADS SECURED ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any truck or trailer with a rated capacity of 1,000 pounds or more,
and carrying a bulk load of coal or other mineral, grain, sand, gravel, crushed
stone, fill dirt or any substance of comparable particle size and texture on
public roads in the county shall have the load secured in a manner that will
prevent dislodgement and scattering of any portion of the load upon a public
road, the road right-of-way or any adjacent property.
   (B)   No person or corporate entity who is a producer, shipper, broker,
seller, purchaser, handler, owner or custodian of any material or vehicle
subject to this section shall cause or permit any load to enter a public road
from premises under its control, unless secured in compliance with division (A)
above.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a manufactured lid or hatch cover, or a
sheet or tarpaulin of canvas or other material of appropriate strength and
integrity shall be deemed a sufficient cover when tightly fitted and secured to
the truck or trailer so that it covers the entire load and remains in place
throughout the haul.
   (D)   The following shall be exempt from the provisions of divisions (A) and
(B) above; provided, however, that, nothing in this section shall relieve any
owner or operator of the necessity of securing transported materials so as to
prevent their becoming a traffic hazard:
      (1)   Agricultural commodities grown and harvested within the county,
during transportation from the field to an initial point of sale or storage
within the county;
      (2)   Construction materials while transported to the point of final use
from any place within the same job site, or from a mine, pit or stockpile
within two miles of the job site;
      (3)   Materials such as salt and sand intended to be spread on roads to
improve traction for public travel in winter, when loaded upon a spreader-
equipped vehicle operated by the appropriate road maintenance authority; and
      (4)   Snow and ice, immediately following removal from any public or
private road, driveway or parking area.
   (E)   This section shall be effective from and after the date of its passage
and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 10-1992, passed 11-2-1992)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Properly registered off-road vehicles, commonly known as four-wheelers
and three-wheelers, may be operated by licensed drivers on the county road
system, outside the corporate limits of any city or town, provided the
operation of the four-wheelers and three-wheelers complies with all of the
provisions of I.C. 14-16-1, as now existing and as hereafter modified.
   (B)   This section is effective immediately.
(Ord. 88-16, passed 10-3-1988)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  DISPLACED OR FALLING LOADS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate or
permit to be operated upon any public street or highway in the county, a
vehicle or motor vehicle on which the load or contents is displaced or falling
from the vehicle by wind pressure or gravity.
(Ord. 1979-7, passed 4-23-1979)  Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING LOTS
§ 70.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public street in the City of Vincennes which:
      (1)   Is used primarily for the convenience of the owner of property
abutting thereof and of the persons dealing with them;
      (2)   Is abutted on both sides by property which is not customarily
designated by an official property number; or
      (3)   Has been declared an alley by the Common Council of Vincennes.
   COUNTY PARKING LOTS. Those areas lying within the sidewalks of the
Courthouse square located adjacent to Seventh Street, Vincennes, Knox County,
Indiana, which are paved by hard surface material and/or gravel and are
designated as parking areas by the county and is in existence as of the date of
this subchapter,  or any extensions thereto made from time to time as deemed
necessary by the Board of Commissioners of the county. Also, that area lying
between Busseron and Broadway Streets in the City of Vincennes, County of Knox,
State of Indiana, which lies adjacent to and across the alley from the
Courthouse Annex office building, the Annex parking lot, being paved with hard
surface materials and lying on either side of the alley located thereon by the
City of Vincennes.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
which is propelled by power obtained from any source whatsoever. The same being
a device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported
or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   PARK or PARKED. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other
than temporarily, for the purpose and while actually engaged in the unloading
or loading of persons or property.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation or entity of every nature whatsoever.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department of the county or any
person authorized or directed to regulate parking upon the county-owned parking
facilities.
(Res. 3-1976, passed 8-2-1976)
§ 70.16  UNLAWFUL PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in and upon the
above-designated county parking lot areas, except those designated as a visitor
parking space, unless the person is a courthouse employee or other person with
a displayed permit located in or upon his or her vehicle while the vehicle is
parked at any place within the lots not designated for visitors.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle without a driver or with a driver is found parked
or stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this subchapter, 
the officer finding the vehicle shall take its registration number and take any
other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user, and
shall conspicuously affix to the vehicle a notice in writing, on a form
provided by the Auditor of the county, for the driver to answer to the charge
against him or her within 72 hours, during the hours and at a place specified
in the notice. The officer shall send one copy of the notice to the County
Police Department and one copy to the County Court.
   (C)   In any prosecution charging a violation of this subchapter governing
the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of this subchapter, together
with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time of the
parking, the registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a
prima facie presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person
who parked or placed the vehicle at the point where, and for the time during
which, the violation occurred.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners of the county does hereby find that an
emergency exists and that this subchapter shall become effective immediately
upon passage.
(Res. 3-1976, passed 8-2-1976)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of §
70.01 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $100, nor more than
$1,000. Each load carried by a vehicle in violation of the provisions of §
70.01 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§
70.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be fined not
less than $10 or not more than $100.
   (D)   (1)   Any person found guilty of parking a vehicle in violation of the
provisions of §
70.16  shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
of not less than $1, nor more than $5 and costs for each separate violation of
§
70.16.
      (2)   The County Auditor shall provide, in duplicates, serial numbered
forms for notifying violators to appear and answer to the charges of the
violation of §
70.16. The forms shall be issued to and be receipted for by the police officer
or other persons acting for the police officer, and the County Auditor shall
report to the Commissioners monthly all duplicate forms issued by the Auditor.
These reports shall be public records.
      (3)   In the event any person fails to comply with the notice given to
the person or attached to a vehicle, or fails to make appearance pursuant to a
summons directing an appearance in the County Court, or if any person fails or
refuses to deposit bail as required within the time permitted by §
70.16, the Clerk of the County Court shall forthwith have an affidavit entered
against the person and secure and issue a warrant for his or her arrest.
      (4)   All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the
forfeiture of bail of any person charged with the violation of any of the
provisions of §
70.16 shall be paid into the County General Fund.
(Res. 3-1976, passed 8-2-1976; Ord. 1979-7, passed 4-23-1979; Ord. 10-1992,
passed 11-2-1992)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop intersections
   
III.   Weight limits
   
IV.   Road crossings
   
V.   Through roads
   
VI.   Railroad public crossings
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
Street Location Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Location           Speed Limit Ord. No.     Date Passed
                   Intersection of
                   Old Highway 150    20 mph      10-2002      10-21-2002
                   and Overhead Road
                   (C.R. SE 150 S)
                   Johnstown area     20 mph      9-1983       10-17-1983
                   near Bicknell
                   Boundary lines of  30 mph      R. 7-1959R   10-6-1959
                   Ragsdale
                   Located outside
15th Street        the Vincennes city 25 mph      88-13        9-19-1988
                   limits to the end
                   of the road
                   Located outside
16th Street        the Vincennes city 25 mph      88-13        9-19-1988
                   limits to the end
                   of the road
Adams Avenue                          30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Bierhaus Avenue                       30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Bonner Avenue                         30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Brokage Avenue                        30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
                   From its
                   intersection with
Brown Road         Old Highway 41     35 mph      9-1994       8-1-1994
                   south to its
                   intersection with
                   C.R. 400 W
                   From the
                   intersection of
Bruceville Road    State Highway 550
and Gun Club Road  to the place where 30 mph      87-8         10-6-1987
(C.R. 400 NE)      C.R. 400 NE
                   intersects with
                   C.R. N 650 NE
                   From the
                   intersection of
                   State Highway 41
                   and State Highway  35 mph      87-6         5-18-1987
                   150 to the place
                   where C.R. 401
                   intersects with
                   2nd Street
C.R. 401           From the
                   intersection of
                   State Highway 41
                   and State Highway
                   150 to the place   35 mph      87-4         4-20-1987
                   where C.R. 402
                   intersects with
                   2nd Street in
                   Vincennes
                   From a point 300
                   feet north of the
                   Church of Jesus
                   Christ of Latter   35 mph      87-6         5-18-1987
                   Day Saints to the
C.R. 596           junction of C.R.
                   401
                   From the junction
                   of C.R. 253 at
                   Fort Knox Addition 35 mph      87-4         4-20-1987
                   to the junction of
                   C.R. 401
C.R. SE 400 E                         25 mph      8-1992       - -1992
                   From its
                   intersection with
                   the entrance to
C.R. SE 500 E      Sycamore Coal Mine 25 mph      8-1992       - -1992
                   to its
                   intersection with
                   C.R. SE 400 E
                   From its
                   intersection with
C.R. SE 500 S      C.R. SE 1400 E to  25 mph      8-1992       - -1992
                   its intersection
                   with C.R. SE 1300
                   E
                   From its
                   intersection with
C.R. SE 610 E      C.R. SE 700 S to   25 mph      8-1992       - -1992
                   its intersection
                   with S.R. 241
                   From its
                   intersection with
                   C.R. SE 1300 E to  25 mph      8-1992       - -1992
                   its intersection
                   with C.R. SE 610 E
                   From Wheatland to
                   the point where    30 mph      5-1980       8-25-1980
C.R. SE 700 S      the highway meets
                   C.R. SE 1300 E
                   From State Highway
                   550 to C.R. SE
                   1300 E and from    30 mph      4-1983       3-28-1983
                   C.R. SE 1300 E to
                   the Black Beauty
                   Coal Company
                   From its
                   intersection with
C.R. SE 1300 E     C.R. SE 500 S to   25 mph      8-1992       - -1992
                   its intersection
                   with C.R. SE 700 S
                   From its
                   intersection with
C.R. SE 1400 E     C.R. 400 E to its  25 mph      8-1992       - -1992
                   intersection with
                   C.R. SE 500 S
                   From Bicknell city
                   limits to the golf 35 mph      8-1983       6-6-1983
C.R. SW 100 N      course
                   From Tilly Estates
                   to the Knox County 35 mph      88-10        8-1-1988
                   Country Club
Calcutt Drive                         25 mph      19-1995      10-2-1995
Capital Avenue                        30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Creekside Drive                       25 mph      5-1998       2-23-1998
Division Avenue                       30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Emision Avenue                        30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Ewing Avenue                          30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
                   From its
                   intersection with
                   Old Highway 41
Fort Knox Road     north to its       35 mph      9-1983       10-17-1983
                   intersection with
                   the Old Terre
                   Haute Road
                   From the township
                   line dividing
Hart Street Road   Vincennes Township 45 mph      2010-1       4-5-2010
                   and Harrison
                   Township to Stage
                   Coach Road
                                      30 mph      12-1979      5-18-1979
                   Beginning in the
Hillcrest          Old Bruceville
Extension Road     Road and           30 mph      R. 3-1961R   5-25-1961
                   terminatinig at
                   the Old Wheatland
                   Road
Hillcrest Road                        30 mph      12-1979      5-18-1979
                   From S.R. 61 to
Johnson Farm Road  Hickory Corner     30 mph      8-2002       9- -2002
                   Road
Lyons Avenue                          30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Main Avenue                           30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Mason Avenue                          30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
McCord Avenue                         30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Memering Road                         35 mph      2009-1       - -2009
Miller Avenue                         30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Montgomery Avenue                     30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Murphy Avenue                         30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Niblack Avenue                        30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Niblack Road                          35 mph      R. 21-1975   - -1975
Noble Avenue                          30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
                   Between Hillcrest
Old Bruce Road     Road (C.R. NE 300  40 mph      4-1995       3-6-1995
(C.R. S 25 E)      E) and Newell Road
                   (C.R. NE 420 E)
                   To Executive
                   Boulevard (Old 41
                   North), then
                   beginning at the
Old Terre Haute    Old Terre Haute
Road               Road on River Road 35 mph      4-1985       5-7-1985
                   North (C.R. NE
                   1000 E) to the
                   intersection of
                   Fort Knox Road
                   (Riddle Road)
                   From the Vincennes
                   city limits to the
Old Wheatland Road intersection of    30 mph      88-11; 88-12 8-15-1988; 8-15-
                   the Old Wheatland                           1988
                   Road and Hillcrest
                   Extension Road
Oliphant Avenue                       30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Otto Avenue                           30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Purcell Avenue                        30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
                   Between its
                   intersection with
                   Old Decker Road    35 mph      1-1994       2- -1994
Ramsey Road (C.R.  and its
600 S)             intersection with
                   Main Street Road
                   Between Main
                   Street Road and    35 mph      R.76-5       7-19-1976
                   Old Decker Road
                   From its
Robinson Road      intersection with
(C.R. SE 400 S)    S.R. 61 to its     45 mph      10-1994      8-15-1994
                   intersection with
                   S.R. 50
Roush Avenue                          30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Simon Avenue                          30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
                   Between the
                   intersection with
South 6th Street   Willow Street and  40 mph      1995-9       4-17-1995
Road               a point 1-1/
                   2 miles south of
                   the intersection
South 13th Street                     30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
South 15th Street                     30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
South 16th Street                     30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
South 17th Street                     30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
South 18th Street                     30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Tower Road         Between Upper Hart 30 mph      8-2002       9- -2002
                   Street and S.R. 61
                   From 14th Street
Wabash Avenue      east to the top of 30 mph      R. 1-1961R   2-7-1961
                   Sugar Loaf Hill
                   Within 1,000 feet
Washington Road    west of bridge     35 mph      5-2012       6-4-2012
                   number 45
Watson Avenue                         30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
Willis Avenue                         30 mph      1979-9       4-23-1979
 
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Street Location Stop Ord. No. Date Passed
Street         Location               Stop                 Ord. No. Date Passed
               Nobles Road and        Four-way             1-2007   3-19-2007
               Petersburg Road
               Intersection of
               Johnson Street and     Three-way            15-2006  7-17-2006
               Third Street
               Intersection of Old
               Wheatland Road and     Four-way             8A-2004  9-20-2004
               Hillcrest Road
               Intersection of Old
               U.S. Highway 50 and    Four-way             8A-2004  9-20-2004
               Hillcrest Road
               Private road crossing
               at the Enoco Coal Dock Stop                 5-1978   10-9-1978
               with C.R. 325 E
               Road exiting from
               Sycamore Coal Mine at  Stop                 9-1992   - -1992
               its intersection with
               C.R. SE 1500 E
               At its intersection
C.R. SE 400 E  with C.R. SE 500 E and Stop                 4-1976   - -1976
               C.R. SE 512 E
C.R. SE 500 S  At its intersection    Stop                 9-1992   - -1992
extension      with C.R. SE 1400 E
C.R. SE 600 S  At its intersection    Stop                 9-1992   - -1992
               with C.R. SE 1300 E
C.R. SE 610 E  At its intersection    Stop                 9-1992   - -1992
               with C.R. SE 700 S
C.R. SE 800 S  At its intersection    Stop                 9-1992   - -1992
               with C.R. SE 1300 E
C.R. SE 1200 E At its intersection    Stop                 9-1992   - -1992
               with C.R. SE 700 S
               At its intersection    Stop traveling
               with C.R. SE 500 S     southeast on C.R. SE 9-1992   - -1992
C.R. SE 1300 E                        1300 E
               At its intersection    Stop traveling
               with C.R. SE 700 S     northwest on C.R. SE 9-1992   - -1992
                                      1300 E
               At its intersection    Stop traveling
C.R. SE 1400 E with C.R. SE 400 E     southeast on C.R. SE 9-1992   - -1992
                                      1400 E
               At its intersection    Stop traveling
C.R. SE 1500 E with C.R. SE 400 E     southeast on C.R. SE 9-1992   - -1992
                                      1500 E
               At the intersection
Calcutt Drive  with Warren Circle     Four-way             19-1995  10-2-1995
               Drive and Crystal
               Valley Drive
               Where it intersects    Northerly direction
Keller Road    with Industrial Park   entering Industrial  2010-2   4-19-2010
               Boulevard              Park Boulevard
 
SCHEDULE III. WEIGHT LIMITS.
Street Location Weight Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Location               Weight Limit Ord. No.  Date Passed
                   From the intersection
                   of C.R. 110 S and C.R.
                   100 W to the           10 tons      8-1996    8-5-1996
                   intersection of C.R.
                   100 W and State
                   Highway 241
Bridge No. 8 on    In the City of         6 tons       9-2013    6-17-2013
Washington Avenue  Vincennes
                   Crossing White River
Bridge on Old U.S. from Knox County to    5 tons       R. 2-1981 6-8-1981
Highway 41         Gibson County at the
                   Town of Hazelton
Buckthall Road                            10 tons      R. 09-6   5-4-2009
                   From the intersection
                   of S.R. 550 to the
C.R. 0 E           intersection of Mize   10 tons      3-1995    3-6-1995
                   Road (IN 550 NE) to
                   the intersection of
                   U.S. Highway 41
                   From the intersection
C.R. 100 E         of U.S. Highway 41 to  10 tons      3-1995    3-6-1995
                   the intersection of
                   S.R. 550
                   From the intersection
C.R. 0 W           with State Highway 241 10 tons      8-1996    8-5-1996
                   north to the C.R. 1100
                   S intersection
C.R. 300 E                                10 tons      7-1982    4-5-1982
C.R. 325 E                                10 tons      7-1982    4-5-1982
C.R. 1150 N        From C.R. 1200 E to    10 tons      79-6      3-11-1979
                   State Highway 67
C.R. 600 S                                10 tons      10-1975   - -1975
                   From its intersection
C.R. 1100 S        with C.R. 0 W to the   10 tons      8-1996    8-5-1996
                   intersection of C.R.
                   110 S to C.R. 100 W
C.R. NE 100 N                             10 tons      7-1982    4-5-1982
C.R. NE 150 N                             10 tons      7-1982    4-5-1982
C.R. NE 1800 N     Running between C.R. N 10 tons      1979-3    - -1979
                   350 NE and C.R. 400 E
C.R. SE 100 S                             5 tons       18-1985   11-4-1985
C.R. SE 200 E                             10 tons      10-1975   - -1975
Hammelman Road                            10 tons      R. 09-6   5-4-2009
Ivers Road                                10 tons      04-2009   - -2009
Jones Gap Road                            10 tons      R. 09-6   5-4-2009
Memering Road                             10 tons      2008-7    3-17-2008
Miller Road                               10 tons      R. 09-6   5-4-2009
Oaktown-           Across parts of C.R.
Freelandville Road 1000 N, C.R. 500 E and 10 tons      2-1980    2-4-1980
                   C.R. 1050 W
Old Highway 41                            10 tons      04-2009   - -2009
Pierce Road                               10 tons      04-2009   - -2009
Pine Bluff Road                           10 tons      R. 09-6   5-4-2009
Produce Road                              10 tons      04-2009   - -2009
Transformer Road                          10 tons      R. 09-6   5-4-2009
Waterworks Road                           10 tons      R. 09-6   5-4-2009
Wilson Road                               10 tons      04-2009   - -2009
 
SCHEDULE IV. ROAD CROSSINGS.
 
Crossing                      Purpose                Ord. No. Date Passed
Hart Street Road (C.R. SE 100 Access road for refuse 10-1997  5-19-1997
E) and C.R. SE 650 S          hauling
 
SCHEDULE V. THROUGH ROADS.
 
Street        Ord. No. Date Passed
C.R. SE 400 S 4-1976   - -1976
 
SCHEDULE VI. RAILROAD PUBLIC CROSSINGS.
M.P. Location Name Town
M.P. Location Name                   Town
90.85         Anderson
91.30         Russell                Sandborn
91.80         Main                   Sanborn
93.50         S.R. 58
94.70         Main                   Westphalia
94.75         Westphalia             Westphalia
95.60         Stremmings
96.70         Karrah                 Edwardsport
98.20         Edwardsport Road
99.80         Piper Road
100.60        S.R. 358
101.10        Public Road, Knox Road
109.25        Pearl Street           Bruceville
109.50        Depot Street           Bruceville
109.70        Public Road            Bruceville
109.80        Public Road            Bruceville
110.60        Beckes Road
111.30        Hollingsworth Road
112.20        Swans Road
112.90        Edisman Road
114.80        Brick Yard Road
 
(Res. 2-1961R, passed 5-2-1961)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   FAIR HOUSING
         
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
         
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
93.   FIRE PROTECTION
         
94.   ANIMALS
         
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
90.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Exemptions
   
90.10   Administrative enforcement
§ 90.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Board of Commissioners of the county to
provide, within constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its
corporate limits as provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1974, as
amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 5-1994, passed 3-7-1994)
§ 90.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
and/or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of the person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802  (I.C. 22-
9.5); nor does the term DISABILITY include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (I.C. 22-9.5).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04,
90.05,
90.06,
90.07 or
90.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Discrimination on the basis of familial status means
discrimination because the person is (1) pregnant; (2) domiciled with an
individual under the age of 18 years of age in regard to whom the person is (a)
the parent or legal custodian or (b) has the written permission of the parent
or legal custodian for domicile with that person; or (3) in the process of
obtaining legal custody of an individual younger than 18 years of age.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in herein. Also, pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5,
the definition of FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the
actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of
its member.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 5-1994, passed 3-7-1994; Ord. 2015-12, passed 10-19-2015)
§ 90.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
90.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
90.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more that three single-family houses at
any one time; provided that, in the sale of the single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who
was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption
shall apply only to one sale within any 24-month period. The private individual
owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his or her
behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale
or rental of more than three single-family houses at any one time. The sale or
rental of any single-family house shall be excepted from application of this
section only if the house is old or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other professional assistance
as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwelling containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more that four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person a shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 5-1994, passed 3-7-1994)
§ 90.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
90.03 and except as exempted by §
90.03(B) and §
90.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make any preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry into the neighborhood of a
person or persons of a particular race, color, religion, sex, disability,
familial status or national origin; and/or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purpose of this division (F), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear
excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the person equal opportunity to use
and enjoy a dwelling:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheel chairs; and
            3.   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for buildings
and facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically disabled
people (commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1") suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (C)(3)(c) above; and
      (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 5-1994, passed 3-7-1994)
§ 90.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available a transaction, or in the
terms or conditions of a transactions, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; and
         (b)   Ground by residential real estate.
      (2)   The rolling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Noting in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Ord. 5-1994, passed 3-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny and person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of the access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 5-1994, passed 3-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of him or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having sided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03,
90.04,
90.05 or
90.06.
(Ord. 5-1994, passed 3-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes wit, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
the person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations of facilities described in division (A) of
this section; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage the
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) above, or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial
of the opportunity to participate shall be fined not more than $2,500.
(Ord. 5-1994, passed 3-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to the persons, unless
membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state of federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 5-1994, passed 3-7-1994)
§ 90.10  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below shall be vested in the Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Board of
Commissioners of the county, because of a lack of financial and other resources
necessary to fully administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil
actions under this chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of
violation of the articles of this chapter by complainants to the State Civil
Rights Commission ("Commission") for administrative enforcement actions
pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Board of Commissioners of the county shall
refer all complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) above
to the Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate
relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Board of Commissioners of the county to further
those purposes.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners of the county or its designee shall provide
information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant
requesting the information.
(Ord. 5-1994, passed 3-7-1994)
CHAPTER 91:  HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
Weeds and Other Rank Vegetation
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Administration of subchapter
   
91.03   Duties
   
91.04   Violations
   
91.05   Removal
   
91.06   Entry upon real estate
   
91.07   Assessment of costs
   
91.08   Failure to pay
   
91.09   Appeal
WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER.  The person or legal entity that holds title to the real estate or
the person or legal entity that is in possession of the real estate.
   RANK VEGETATION.  Any vegetation the grows where the vegetation is not
wanted or any vegetation that is at least 24 inches in height.
   REASONABLE TIME.  Not less than ten days from the date of the notice.
   SERVICE OF NOTICE.  Notice shall be given in the same manner as authorized
by the Indiana rules of trial procedure for the service of process. If the real
estate appears to be abandoned then notice may be given by posting a notice on
the real estate.
   WEED.  Any plant that grows where the plant is not wanted is a weed.
(I. C. 15-16-5-37).
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 2-23-2011)
§ 91.02  ADMINISTRATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter will be administered by the County Solid Waste Management
District. ("Administrator").
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 2-23-2011)
§ 91.03  DUTIES.
   All persons or legal entities that own real estate in the unincorporated
areas of the county are required to cut and remove weeds and rank vegetation
from their real estate.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 2-23-2011)
§ 91.04  VIOLATIONS.
   Any weed or rank vegetation over 24 inches in height that is not cut or
removed from real estate constitutes a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 2-23-2011)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05  REMOVAL.
   (A)   Any owner of real estate in violation of this subchapter upon notice
shall cut or remove all weeds and rank vegetation from their real estate within
a reasonable time.
   (B)   Failure to cut or remove all weeds and rank vegetation within a
reasonable time will allow the Administrator or its agent to enter upon the
real estate for the purpose of cutting or removing all weeds and rank
vegetation.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 2-23-2011)
§ 91.06  ENTRY UPON REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The Administrator who has reason to believe that weeds and rank
vegetation may be on real estate, may, after giving 48-hours' notice to the
owner or person in possession of the real estate, enter the real estate to
investigate.
   (B)   If the Administrator determines that weeds or rank vegetation in
violation of this subchapter are present on the real estate than notice shall
be given requiring the owner to remove the weeds and rank vegetation.
   (C)   If the weeds and rank vegetation are not removed within the time given
then the Administrator shall cut or remove the weeds and rank vegetation in a
manner most practical to the Administrator as soon as practical after the
expiration of the time allowed the owner to remove the weeds or rank
vegetation.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 2-23-2011)
§ 91.07  ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   When the work has been performed, the person doing the work shall file
an itemized bill for the work in the office of the Administrator. The
Administrator shall add any costs incurred by the Administrator, adding to such
a bill $50 per day for each day the Administrator or the Administrator's agent
supervises the performance of services required under this subchapter. The bill
shall contain a description of the real estate.
   (B)   The bill prepared in accordance with division (A) shall be served on
the owner. The bill shall be mailed to the Auditor of State for any real estate
owned by the state or to the fiscal officer of another municipality as defined
by I.C. 5-11-1-16 for real estate owned by the state or another municipality.
The bill shall request that the owner pay the bill to the County Auditor.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 2-23-2011)
§ 91.08  FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   If the owner does not pay the amount set forth in the bill complied by
the Administrator within ten days of notice, the Administrator shall file a
certified copy of the bill with the office of the County Auditor.
   (B)   The Auditor shall place the amount of the bill on the tax duplicate of
the real estate. The amount claimed shall be collected as delinquent taxes are
collected and shall be disbursed to the general fund of the county.
   (C)   If the owner is a tax exempt entity then the county may bring suit to
collect the bill and the owner shall be liable for any cost of the litigation
including a reasonable attorney fee.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 2-23-2011)
§ 91.09  APPEAL.
   (A)   An owner who receives a notice under §
91.06 above may appeal the requirement to cut or remove the weeds and rank
vegetation. The owner shall file a written request for a hearing before the
County Commissioners With the County Auditor no later than 24 hours before the
expiration of the time set forth in the notice to owner. Upon receipt of the
request, the Auditor shall notify the Administrator and place the appeal on the
agenda of the County Commissioners for their next scheduled meeting. The
Administrator will take no action under this subchapter until the Commissioners
have heard the appeal and made a decision.
   (B)   The County Commissioners will hear the owners appeal and make a
decision as soon as practicable after the filing of the notice with the
Auditor. The Commissioners may continue the hearing for good cause. Failure of
the owner to appear at the appeal hearing constitutes default and the
Commissioners may decide the appeal in the absence of the owner. The
Commissioners may modify or waive any requirement of this subchapter.
   (C)   An owner receiving a bill under §
91.07 above may appeal to the County Commissioners. The Commissioners shall
conduct an appeal hearing and may modify or waive payment of the bill.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 2-23-2011)
CHAPTER 92:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Dumping objects on streets
   
92.02   Acceptance of rights-of-way
   
92.03   Road bore procedures
Road Numbering and Naming
   
92.15   Title
   
92.16   Compliance
   
92.17   Purpose
   
92.18   Application
   
92.19   Jurisdiction
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Advantages of numbering system
   
92.22   Grid coordinate system
   
92.23   County road names and numbers
   
92.24   Property numbering intervals
   
92.25   Assignment of official permanent property addresses
   
92.26   Determining property address
   
92.27   Placement and size of address numbers
   
92.28   Area Plan Commission responsibilities
   
92.29   Requirements for obtaining street addresses
   
92.30   Incorporated cities and towns
   
92.31   Enforcement
   
92.32   Effective date
Road Crossings and Temporary Closures
   
92.45   Initiated by filing petition; submission
   
92.46   Annual basis; renewal
   
92.47   Requirements; bonds and costs
   
92.48   Public hearing
   
92.49   Fund established
   
92.50   Preliminary plans
   
92.51   Inclusions and descriptions
   
92.52   Restoration
   
92.53   Extensions
   
92.54   Considerations; number of road closures
   
92.55   Privilege; consultations
   
92.56   Amendment; variances
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  DUMPING OBJECTS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump, deposit,
place or otherwise put trash, debris or other tangible objects upon the public
streets or highways of the county, the rights-of-way of public streets or
highways or in any locations directly adjacent to the right-of-way of a public
street, highways and roads.
(Ord. 1979-8, passed 4-23-1979)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  ACCEPTANCE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   The Board would not approve the establishment of any public highway in the
county with a right-of-way of less than 40 feet, or with inadequate drainage or
with an inadequate base or not in useable condition.
(Res. 6-1959R, passed - -1959)
§ 92.03  ROAD BORE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All road bores shall be initiated by the filing of a application for
same executed by the entity requesting the bore. The petition shall include a
map of the area and roads involved in the proposed bore. The application will
be submitted to the County Highway Department.
   (B)   The application shall be approved or denied by the Highway
Superintendent, whose decision may be appealed to the County Commissioners. The
application must demonstrate how any buried object will be located. The
applicant will obtain a written application from the Auditor of the county and
present to the Board of Commissioners of the county at an official meeting for
their action.
   (C)   Road bores will be granted on a one-time basis. Permits shall contain
an expiration date by which time the bore shall be finished.
   (D)   The fee for a road bore will be $200. At the time of the application,
there will be a $200 deposit required in addition to road bore fees.
   (E)   The $200 deposit shall be returned to the applicant upon the filing of
an "as built" drawing with the County Highway Department with 30 days of
completion of the work. Failure to file an "as built" drawing within 30 days
after completion of the project will result in forfeiture of the deposit
   (F)   All application fees will be placed in the Temporary Road Closure and
Road Crossing Fund, to be administered by the County Commissioners as set forth
in Ord. 2-2007.
   (G)   All applications for road bore shall show on the preliminary plans
submitted to the County Surveyor any utilities located in the county right-of-
way. The application shall indicate what protection will be provided to the
utilities located along or in the roadbed.
   (H)   All applicants for road bore shall include a cross section showing the
depicted bore. All road bore agreements shall contain a provision that the
applicant shall maintain the roadway and signage to protect the public which
shall include, but not limited to, keeping the portion of the county highway
crossed clean and free of trash, mud, debris, fluids, oils and the like and
keeping the crossing free of dust. All requests for road crossing shall contain
a description of all traffic control signs pertaining to the crossing.
   (I)   All request for road bores shall contain a plan and profile clearly
depicting how the road presently exists. The plan profile also indicates the
existing surface thickness and type.
   (J)   The applicant shall restore any road disturbed or damaged by a road
bore and provide to the County Commissioners a plan showing: the approximate
grade of the restored road, the width of the restored road and the proposed
drainage of the restored road. The surface of the restored road shall be the
same as the road prior to temporary closure. The county must approve the plan
prior to restoration of the road(s).
   (K)   The granting of a road bore application by the County Commissioners is
a privilege and not a right to private entities. It is the responsibility of
the applicant to initiate consultations with the county, utility companies, the
Department of Natural Resources or other state agencies as required under the
circumstances. Early coordination will help in avoiding delays at a later date.
   (L)   The County Commissioners specifically reserve the right to amend these
policies and procedures and to grant variances from these policies and
procedures and to grant variances from these policies and procedures if the
County Commissioners decide it is in the best interest of the county.
(Ord. 14-2007, passed 12-17-2009; Ord. 1-2011, passed 2-7-2011; Ord. 8-2013,
passed 5-20-2013)  Penalty, see §
92.99
ROAD NUMBERING AND NAMING
§ 92.15  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Addressing Ordinance
of Knox County, Indiana".
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.16  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall be assigned an address or street name in any matter
whatsoever in the unincorporated areas of the county, except in full compliance
with all provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.17  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to set standards for residences and
other structure numbering and road naming in the county and establish the
authority and methods to be used when assigning addresses to the properties in
the county. These standards shall be used to establish residence locations
which will be used in the implementation of an Enhanced 911 emergency response
system in the county. It is intended to provide continuity, avoid duplication
and prevent general confusion regarding the location of developed parcels of
land in the county.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.18  APPLICATION.
   It is not intended by the subchapter to interfere with, abrogate or amend
any covenants or other agreements between parties, nor is it intended by this
subchapter to repeal, abrogate or annul or, in any way, interfere with existing
provisions of laws or ordinances not specifically repealed by this subchapter,
or any rules or regulations previously adopted or issued pursuant to law
relating to the listing of contractors.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.19  JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all unincorporated land within the county.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS PLANNING AUTHORITY. The County Commissioners shall serve as the
coordinating body in the county with the responsibility for assigning street
addresses within its jurisdiction. The agency shall coordinate its addressing
efforts with the County Planning Commission, local postmasters and other
government bodies.
   BASE LINES. Recognizable lines which divide the county into quadrants or
sectors.
   BLOCK INTERVAL. The hundred number interval is the distance between grid
lines, or the point where the next highest block number designation is used.
   CUSTOMER (ADDRESSEE). A family, individual, residence, business or industry
which receives mail at a delivery point.
   FRONTAGE INTERVAL. The distance in foot frontage along a street, highway or
county road which is used to assign consecutive property numbers, beginning
from the nearest grid or base line. The address system used by the county
assumes a frontage interval of 10.56 feet.
   GRID LINES. Imaginary lines or actual county roads which are located a
specific distance from the perpendicular or parallel to base lines. These lines
indicate the point where block numbers change from 100 to the next higher
hundred. GRID LINES are used to standardize the numbering of parallel blocks at
the same distance from the base lines.
   LOT. A lot is designated parcel, tract, development or area of land which is
either now being or will be used eventually for construction of a structure.
   OUT OF BOUNDS ADDRESS. An out of bounds address is a term used by the U.S.
Postal Service to designate addresses that are out of sequence with other
surrounding addresses. Often, this occurs when mailboxes are located on the
back street of a property that faces another street or on corner lots.
   PRIMARY ADDRESS NUMBER (CITY-TYPE ADDRESS). The numeric or alphanumeric
component of a city-type address which precedes the street name (e.g., 5400 N.
Blue Boff Road).
   STRUCTURE. A residential home, apartment building, business or commercial
building, industrial or manufacturing building, or publicly owned building
which fronts onto a public street or road.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.21  ADVANTAGES OF NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   A street numbering system and corresponding property addresses provide
individual structures with an exact geographic location in the county.
   (B)   City-type street/road addresses are necessary in order to provide a
structure with a specific and more accurate identification for efficient mail
delivery; to provide an easily identifiable geographic reference point for
quick dispatch of police, fire and emergency rescue equipment; to provide
utility companies with a permanent address record for billing and service calls
tied to a specific structure; and to provide ease of location identification
for friends, service vehicles or other individuals trying to locate a specific
structure or a county road.
   (C)   A numbering system should make it easy for anyone to find the location
of a county road or residential property in a short period of time and allow
for a systematic expansion of address numbers as community growth occurs.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.22  GRID COORDINATE SYSTEM.
   The county will structure the naming of its road system and the issuance of
property addresses based on the Lyman/Purdue street numbering system. The
system is better known as the grid coordinate system. The system utilizes two
base lines which run at approximate right angles to each thereby to divide the
county into quadrants. Most of the county roads are numbered based on their
distance from the north-south and the east-west base lines.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.23  COUNTY ROAD NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   Existing county road/street names will be retained where feasible. Some
names will have to be changed to correct duplications, multiple namings of the
same road and other factors causing confusion. Road names will be used to
delineate an assumed distance for the base line. For example, C.R. 250 S
delineates that the road runs east/west at a distance of two and one-half miles
south of the center of the county.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.24  PROPERTY NUMBERING INTERVALS.
   Street addresses are assigned in increasing order from each base and grid
line. In the county, 1,000 potential property addresses exist for each 5,280
feet (one mile) of distance from the base lines. There are approximately 50
numbers that will be available for each side of the street/road within each
tenth of a mile. All of those available numbers will probably not be needed,
depending on the density of development along the street/road. Therefore,
addresses occur at each 10.56-foot intervals. A specific street/road address is
determined by measuring the number 10.56-foot intervals between the grid line
to the front entrance of a structure. Crooked roads and roads running at angles
(not true north-south or east-west) will be addressed with the predominate
north-south east-west direction. Distances between address numbers will vary in
these cases.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.25  ASSIGNMENT OF OFFICIAL PERMANENT PROPERTY ADDRESSES.
   (A)   All residences, commercial, industrial and public structures located
in the county shall be assigned a permanent city-type street address.
Structures located on the south side of an east-west street/road and those
located on the east side of a north-south street/road shall have an odd
numbered property address. Structures located on the north side of and east-
west street/road and those located on the west side of a north-south street/
road shall have an even number.
   (B)   In all situations, the County Planning Commission shall make the final
determination of which street/road will be used for an address. The criteria
for this determination will be based on the layout of the property, layout of
the structure and other factors that may affect emergency services and mail
delivery.
   (C)   Street addresses are to be assigned based on a measurement of the
distance from the grid line to a line perpendicular to the address road/street
that intersects one of the following: the structure or the entrance to the
property that contains the structure.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.26  DETERMINING PROPERTY ADDRESS.
   An official street address shall contain no more than five digits with the
first digit, or the first two digits if the structure is located ten or more
miles from the baselines. The third digit from the right shall indicate the
block number which will change each 528 linear feet. The last two digits
indicate the number of 10.56-foot intervals from the structure to the nearest
block or grid line.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.27  PLACEMENT AND SIZE OF ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Once a property address has been assigned by the County Planning
Commission to a specific structure, it shall be the responsibility of the
property owner to provide visible and current address number on both the
structure and on the mailbox.
   (B)   The letters and number on the mail box shall be in compliance with
U.S. Postal Service regulations and recommendations. The lettering shall be at
least one inch in height, the color of the lettering shall be in contrast to
its background. The address shall be placed on both sides of the mail box. In
cases where an address is considered an "out of bounds" address, the address
name of the road/street shall also be placed on both sides of the mailbox.
   (C)   (1)   The letters and numbers placed on structures shall be at least
two inches in height. The letters and numbers shall be placed on the main level
in a location which faces the street upon which it is addressed and near a main
entry way and placed higher than the height of the entry way. The color of the
lettering shall be in contrast to its background.
      (2)   If side or back entry ways open to a street, road or alley
different from the address, the side of the structure shall also have the full
address, including address road/street name, properly displayed.
   (D)   In situations where the mailbox is not located at the entrance to the
property and address number on the structure are not easily visible from the
road, a sign displaying the address with at least an inch lettering shall be
placed at the entrance to the property. The lettering color shall be in
contrast to its background. An alternative method shall be to paint the address
on the curb in front of the structure. The lettering on the curb shall be at
least two inches in height in black with a white background.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.28  AREA PLAN COMMISSION RESPONSIBILITIES.
   In the unincorporated area of the county, the responsibility for the
issuance of street addresses shall be assigned to the staff of the County Plan
Commission. I.C. 36-7-4-405 grants a plan commission the power to prescribe a
numbering system, assign street numbers and approve the naming of all streets
in platted subdivisions. The Plan Commission shall issue and keep a permanent
record of all issued property addresses within its jurisdiction and share the
addresses with local postal authorities and E-911 personnel. Determination of
county road or highway names or changes in the names shall be the sole
responsibility of the County Commissioners. The Plan Commission shall have a
final approval in the naming of streets in platted subdivisions, mobile home
parks, commercial or industrial business parks and the like under its
jurisdiction. Local incorporated communities shall have final approval in the
naming of roads and subdivisions streets located within their corporate
boundaries.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.29  REQUIREMENTS FOR OBTAINING STREET ADDRESSES.
   (A)   (1)   A person or business who submits an application to build a new
structure in the county shall submit a plat of site plan as is normally
required to obtain a building permit, the Plan Commission shall issue an
official permanent street/road address for the structure.
      (2)   It is the official address that will be forwarded to postal
officials, the County Auditor and local utilities. No other address shall be
used for identification of the structure.
   (B)   In no case shall an individual or business be permitted to assign and
address to his, her or their property or structure on that property.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.30  INCORPORATED CITIES AND TOWNS.
   The County Plan Commission and the County Commissioners do not have
jurisdiction over the implementation of numbering systems within the
incorporated cities and towns in the county. Numbering in these communities
shall be the responsibility of the local plan commission, town board or city
council. However, the County Commissioners can require that city-type addresses
be implemented in these communities for the purposes of defining structures for
E-911 identification. All structures in the county shall be required to have
city-type property addresses including those in incorporated communities. The
rural route and box system now in place and in some incorporated communities
must be eliminated and city-type addresses shall be assigned to all structures
in the communities by April of 1996. Communities shall follow the existing
address system now in place in the community, or develop a logical system,
which utilizes similar north-south and east-west base lines as described
herein.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.31  ENFORCEMENT.
   The 1995-1996 readdressing project is designed to replace all rural route
addresses within the county jurisdiction with new addresses described in this
subchapter. Upon completion of the 1995-96 readdressing project, all properties
within the jurisdiction of the county shall be required to be in full
compliance of this subchapter within 90 days of notice of the new assigned
addresses, or within 90 days of the completion of the entire project if not
assigned a new address.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
§ 92.32  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption.
(Ord. 6-1995, passed 3-10-1995)
ROAD CROSSINGS AND TEMPORARY CLOSURES
§ 92.45  INITIATED BY FILING PETITION; SUBMISSION.
   (A)   All road crossings and temporary road closings shall be initiated by
the filing of a verified petition executed by the entity requesting the
temporary closing or crossing. The petition shall include a map of the area
proposed temporary closing or crossing. Accompanying the petition shall be a
proposed order granting the temporary closing or crossing and a proposed
agreement.
   (B)   The applicant for the road crossing or temporary road closing shall
submit three copies of the petition to the County Surveyor and the County
Attorney.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 92.46  ANNUAL BASIS; RENEWAL.
   Road crossing and temporary closings shall be granted on an annual basis.
Permits shall be issued for a minimum term of 12 months and must be renewed at
the end of that time period.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 92.47  REQUIREMENTS; BONDS AND COSTS.
   (A)   All agreements on road crossings and temporary road closings shall
provide:
      (1)   A bond in the amount of $100,000 per mile or any part thereof to
cover the failure of the applicant to return the road to its original condition
after the expiration or termination of the closing or crossing;
      (2)   Contain an indemnity clause;
      (3)   Require the applicant to maintain comprehensive liability coverage
in a form acceptable to the County Commissioners covering the county and the
applicant with limits of not less than $1,000,000 per incident;
      (4)   Provide for the applicant to pay all costs arising as a result of
the agreement including suits initiated by the county against the applicant to
compel compliance, suits in the form of administrative actions by a
governmental agency and any suit by a third party seeking damages against the
county;
      (5)   In the event of a temporary road closure, the applicant shall pay
to the county, at the time of the execution or the agreement and order, the sum
of $10,000 per mile or any part thereof of road closed for each closing per one
year or any part thereof, subject to division (A)(6) below.
      (6)   A fee will be levied as follows on temporary road closures and road
crossings of three weeks or less.
   (B)   No fee shall be charged for a temporary road closure or road crossing
of less than one week (seven days from application):
      (1)   One to two weeks: $2,000;
      (2)   Two to three weeks: $5,000; and
      (3)   Three weeks: $10,000.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 92.48  PUBLIC HEARING.
   Road crossing will be granted at the discretion of the County Commissioners.
The Commissioners may require the holding of a public hearing for any temporary
closings or crossings of roads. It is the intent of the County Commissioners to
act on these matter in an expeditious fashion. The Commissioners may continue
any hearing on any temporary closing or road crossing at the discretion of the
County Commissioners until the county's concerns are addressed satisfactorily
or they may deny the request.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 92.49  FUND ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a special non-reverting operating fund for the
placement of any and all monies received by the county pursuant to this
subchapter, designated as the "Temporary Road Closure and Road Crossing Fund"
to be administered by the County Commissioners.
   (A)   The funds shall be used for repair, maintenance and construction of
county roads and bridges and the purchase of equipment for the County Highway
Department.
   (B)   Any monies remaining in the Fund at the end of the year shall not
revert to any other fund, but shall remain in the Fund for use as specified in
this subchapter, and shall not require a notice of encumbrance, but shall be
automatic in accordance with this subchapter.
   (C)   In the event of termination of this Fund, any balance remaining shall
be transferred into the General Fund.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007: Ord. passed 9-6-2011)
§ 92.50  PRELIMINARY PLANS.
   All applications for temporary road closures and road crossings shall show
on the preliminary plans submitted to the county surveyor any utilities located
in the county right-of-way. The application shall indicate what protection will
be provided to the utilities located along or in the roadbed.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 92.51  INCLUSIONS AND DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   All applicants for road crossings shall include a cross section
showing the depicted road crossing. All road crossing agreement shall contain a
provision that the applicant shall maintain the roadway and signage to protect
the public which shall include, but not limited to, keeping the portion of the
county highway crossed clean and free of trash, mud, debris, fluids, oils and
the like and keeping the crossing free of dust. All requests for road crossing
shall contain a description of all traffic control signs pertaining to the
crossing.
   (B)   All request for temporary road closings shall contain a plan and
profile clearly depicting how the road presently exists. The plan profile also
indicates the existing surface thickness and type.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 92.52  RESTORATION.
   (A)   The applicant shall restore any road temporarily closed and shall
provide to the County Commissioners a plan showing: the approximate grade of
the restored road, the width of the restored road and the proposed drainage of
the restored road. The surface of the restored road shall be the same as the
road prior to temporary closure. The county must approve the plan prior to
restoration of the road(s).
   (B)   At least 90 days prior to beginning restoration of the temporarily
closed road, the applicant shall advise the County Commissioners of the final
plans for restoration which have been approved, in writing, by the county. In
the event the road is to be restored as a hard surface road, the road shall be
first be constructed as a gravel road and maintained as such for 24 months
prior to the construction of the hard surface road so that subsidence and
compaction can take place before the restoration as a hard surface road.
   (C)   The bond set forth in §
92.47(A)(1) shall remain in full force an effect for five years following the
return of the road or relinquishment of the crossing to the county.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 92.53  EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Temporary road closure may be granted only for a maximum one year and
extended for an additional two-year periods. Applications for extensions must
be submitted at least 60 days prior to the expiration of the present period of
closure. The County Commissioners grant the request for temporary closing or
crossing a road if they find that there is no compelling public interest in
keeping the road open or in the immediate reopening of the road and further
there would be significant harm to the applicant.
   (B)   All restored roads shall be returned to the county within one year
after restoration and the applicant shall so notify the County Commissioners in
writing that the road is ready to be reopened and request the county review the
road for approval. No road shall be reopened until the county has reviewed the
road and accepted the road, in writing, and so notified the applicant. The
applicant shall pay the sum of $50 per day as liquidated damages to the county
for every day the road is not reopened following the one-year period after the
expiration of the road closure agreement. The applicant shall also be required
to pay the county's reasonable attorney fees, court costs and reasonable
expenses of litigation brought by the county to compel compliance with the
reopening of county roads.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 92.54  CONSIDERATIONS; NUMBER OF ROAD CLOSURES.
   It shall be general policy of the county that, except for good cause shown
and demonstrated to the satisfaction of the County Commissioners, no more than
two adjacent and parallel roads will be closed at the same time. All entities
that have two or more temporary road closures shall arrange their road closure
program so that there is a minimum number of miles closed at the same time. The
County Commissioners, in granting or denying a temporary road closure may
consider whether there will be a net loss in road milage available to the
general public and the length of the detour the traveling public will have to
make. The effect of these closures on the transportation system in the county
will be considered.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 92.55  PRIVILEGE; CONSULTATIONS.
   The granting of a temporary road closure or crossing by the County
Commissioners is a privilege and not a right to private entities. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to initiate consultations with the county,
utility companies, the Department of Natural Resources or other state agencies
as required under the circumstances. Early coordination will help in avoiding
delays at a later date.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 92.56  AMENDMENT; VARIANCES.
   The County Commissioners specifically reserve the right to amend these
policies and procedures and to grant variances from these policies and
procedures and to grant variances from these policies and procedures if the
County Commissioners decide it is in the best interest of the county.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Forming districts
   
93.02   Vincennes Township Fire District
   
93.03   South Vigo Township Fire District
   
93.04   Edwardsport Community Fire District
   
93.05   Johnson Township Fire District
§ 93.01  FORMING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All divisions of townships forming a fire district must be submitted
by February 1 of the year in which the tax rate for the district is to be
imposed.
   (B)   Districts containing full townships must be submitted by June 1 of
that year.
(Res. 6-1982, passed 3-15-1982)
§ 93.02  VINCENNES TOWNSHIP FIRE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-11 et seq., it is declared the
intention of the Board of Commissioners of the county to allow Vincennes
Township to avail itself to the provisions of the chapter and to participate in
the operation of a fire protection district encompassing the unincorporated
areas of Vincennes Township as of the date of the passage of this section.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners in the county find in order the petition
hereto submitted by the freeholders of Vincennes Township in all aspects and
specifically as follows.
      (1)   The name of the fire district shall be known as "Vincennes Township
Fire District".
      (2)   The territory is to include all of the unincorporated territory of
Vincennes Township, Knox County, Indiana, as may be determined on the date of
the passage of this section.
      (3)   The purpose of this district is to ensure the adequacy of fire
protection within the district.
      (4)   Presently there exists sufficient need to establish a district so
as to maintain adequate revenues for the continuation of fire protection
services and for the improvement of the service in the foreseeable future and
to facilitate future planning for the delivery of services.
      (5)   The public health, safety and welfare of the residents and/or
property owners of Vincennes Township can be assured by the securing of sound
financial planning for the delivery of fire protection services.
      (6)   The operating costs for the protection will be subject to economies
of scale and is not conditioned upon receipt of any federal or state grants.
   (C)   The Vincennes Township Fire District is hereby established on the date
of the passage of this section.
   (D)   The Trustees for the fire district shall be appointed within 30 days
after the establishment herein.
(Ord. 8-1981, passed 7-6-1981)
§ 93.03  SOUTH VIGO TOWNSHIP FIRE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-11 et seq., it is declared the
intention of the Board of Commissioners of the county to allow South Vigo
Township to avail itself of the provisions of the chapter and to participate in
the operation of a fire protection district encompassing all the above
described area of South Vigo Township, as of the date of the passage of this
section.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners in the county find in order the petition
hereto submitted by the freeholders of South Vigo Township in all aspects and
specifically as follows.
      (1)   The name of the fire district shall be known as "South Vigo
Township Fire District".
      (2)   The territory is to include all of that area of South Vigo Township
as heretofore described in this section.
      (3)   The purpose of this district is to ensure the adequacy of the fire
protection within the district.
      (4)   Presently there exists sufficient need to establish a district so
as to maintain and expand revenues for the continuation of fire protection
services and for the improvement of the service in the foreseeable future and
to facilitate future planning for the delivery of services on a reasonable
basis.
      (5)   The public health, safety and welfare of the residents and property
owners of the territory can be assured by the securing of sound financial
planning for the delivery of fire protection services.
      (6)   The operating costs for the protection will be subject to economies
and revenues assured as same are not conditioned upon receipt of federal or
state grants.
   (C)   The South Vigo Township Fire District is hereby established on the
date of the passage of this section.
   (D)   The Trustees for the fire district shall be appointed within 30 days
after the establishment herein. There shall be three Trustees appointed.
(Ord. 3-1982, passed 3-8-1982)
§ 93.04  EDWARDSPORT COMMUNITY FIRE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-11 et seq., it is declared the
intention of the Board of Commissioners of the county to allow the Edwardsport
Community to avail itself to the provisions of the chapter and to participate
in the operation of a fire protection district encompassing all the above
described area of the town of Edwardsport and Vigo Township, as of the date of
the passage of this section.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners in the county find in order the petition
hereto submitted by the freeholders of the Town of Edwardsport and Vigo
Township in all aspects and specifically as follows.
      (1)   The name of the fire district shall be known as "The Edwardsport
Community Fire District".
      (2)   The territory is to include all of that area of the town of
Edwardsport and Vigo Township as heretofore described in this section.
      (3)   The purpose of this district is to ensure the adequacy of the Fire
protection within the district.
      (4)   Presently there exists sufficient need to establish a district so
as to maintain and expand revenues for the continuation of fire protection
services and for the improvement of the service in the foreseeable future and
to facilitate future planning for the delivery of services on a reasonable
basis.
      (5)   The public health, safety and welfare of the residents and property
owners of the territory can be assured by the securing of sound financial
planning for the delivery of fire protection services.
      (6)   The operating costs for the protection will be subject to economies
and revenues assured as same are not conditioned upon receipt of federal or
state grants.
   (C)   The Edwardsport Community Fire District is hereby established on the
date of the passage of this section.
   (D)   The Trustees for the fire district shall be appointed within 30 days
after the establishment herein. There shall be five Trustees appointed.
(Ord. 3-1982, passed 2-8-1982)
§ 93.05  JOHNSON TOWNSHIP FIRE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-11 et seq., it is declared the
intention of the Board of Commissioners of the county to allow this territory
to avail itself to the provisions of the chapter and to participate in the
operation of a fire protection district encompassing the Township of Johnson
and the Town of Decker as of the date of passage of this section.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners in the county find in order the petition
hereto submitted by the freeholders of this territory in all aspects and
specifically as follows.
      (1)   The name of the fire district shall be known as "Johnson Township
Fire Protection District".
      (2)   The territory is to include all of the Township of Johnson and the
Town of Decker, Knox County, Indiana, as may be determined on the date of the
passage of this section.
      (3)   The purpose of this district is to ensure the adequacy of fire
protection within the district.
      (4)   Presently there exists sufficient need to establish a district so
as to maintain adequate revenues for the continuation of fire protection
services and for the improvement of the service in the foreseeable future and
to facilitate future planning for the delivery of services.
      (5)   The public health, safety and welfare of the residents and/or
property owners of this territory can be assured by the securing of sound
financial planning for the delivery of fire protection services.
      (6)   The operating costs for the protection will be subject to economies
of scale and is not conditioned upon receipt of any federal or state grants.
   (C)   The Johnson Township Fire Protection District is hereby established on
the date of the passage of this section.
   (D)   Three Trustees for the fire district shall be appointed within 30 days
after the establishment herein.
(Ord. 7-1982, passed 6-28-1982)
CHAPTER 94:  ANIMALS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Licensing and registration of animals and kennels
   
94.03   Tags and collar
   
94.04   Care of animals
   
94.05   Prohibitions
   
94.06   Authority of authorized agents
   
94.07   Apprehension and impounding of animals
   
94.08   Notice to owner
   
94.09   Redemption and disposition of impounded animals
   
94.10   Disposition of unredeemed animals
   
94.11   Duties of motorists
   
94.12   Effective date
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any dog, cat or other domesticated animal.
   ANIMAL SHELTER or MUNICIPAL ANIMAL SHELTER. The facility or facilities
maintained by the county or agencies it may contract with, for the humane
restraining and impounding of animals apprehended under the authority of this
chapter.
   ANIMAL WARDEN. The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a person to serve at
the pleasure of the Board of Commissioners and for a salary to be set and
approved by the County Council.
   AT LARGE. The situation that exists when an animal is elsewhere than on the
owner's premises and either;
      (1)   Not restrained by a leash; or
      (2)   Not under the immediate and complete control of a person capable of
controlling the animal.
   CAT. Any domestic member of the feline family of animals.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family of animals.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. The situation which exists when an animal has been bitten
by or otherwise has been in contact with any other animal known to bef or
reasonably suspected of being, infected with rabies.
   KENNEL. Any premises or place within the county upon or in which four or
more animals over six months of age are bred, kept, harbored or maintained.
   OWNER. Any person or persons owning or having the care, custody or control
of any animal.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 94.02  LICENSING AND REGISTRATION OF ANIMALS AND KENNELS.
   (A)   All animals kept, harbored or maintained by their owners in the county
outside the corporate limits of any city or town shall be:
      (1)   Licensed by their owners each year not later than May 1; and
      (2)   Vaccinated for rabies by a licensed veterinarian not later than May
1 every year, if the animal is more than six months of age. The vaccination
shall be with an anti-rabies vaccine of a type approved by the State Board of
Health. The anti-rabies vaccination shall be in accordance with standards, type
of dosage and immunity duration which is and will be prescribed from time to
time by the State Board of Health.
   (B)   Animal licenses valid until, but not including, May 1 of the following
year shall be issued by the County Auditor or person designated by him or her
upon payment of a license fee of $2 for spayed or neutered animals and $3 for
all unaltered animals and presentation of a rabies vaccination receipt
certifying the animal to have been vaccinated for rabies not more than 12
months prior to the date of application for license. The owner shall state, at
the time of making application for the license and upon the forms provided for
that purpose, the owner's name and address and the animal's name, breed, color
and sex.
   (C)   The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above shall not apply to any
dog show, nor to seeing-eye dogs trained to assist blind persons when the dogs
are actually used for those purposes, not to dogs kept in a kennel while the
dogs are actually in the kennel.
   (D)   Each year not later than May 1, every person owning, operating or
permitting a kennel upon his or her premises shall obtain a kennel license by
making an application to the County Auditor setting forth in the application
the number, breed, color and sex of each animal held by him or her and the
location at which the animals will be housed within the county.
   (E)   In the event the County Auditor approves the application, a kennel
license shall be issued by the County Auditor to the applicant upon payment of
the fee according hereto.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03  TAGS AND COLLAR.
   (A)   Upon payment of the license fee and presentation of the rabies
vaccination receipt, the County Auditor or person designated by him or her
shall issue to the owner a license certificate and a metallic or other tag of
durable material for each animal so licensed. The shape of the tag shall be
changed each year and shall have stamped thereon the year for which it was
issued and the number corresponding with the serial number of the certificate.
The owner shall provide each animal with a collar to which the license tag
shall be affixed and shall see that the collar and tag are worn by the animal
so licensed at all times when at large. In case an animal tag be destroyed or
lost, a duplicate tag shall be issued upon presentation of the license
certificate or a receipt showing payment for a certificate for the current
year, along with the rabies vaccination receipt and upon payment of $0.50 for
the duplicate.
   (B)   Animal licenses, certificates and tags shall not be transferrable from
one animal to another and no refunds shall be made on any animal license fee
because of death of the animal or any other reason.
      (1)   Four to ten dogs: $25; and
      (2)   Eleven or more dogs: $50.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04  CARE OF ANIMALS.
   Every owner of an animal kept, harbored or maintained in the county outside
any corporate limits of any city or town shall see that his or her animal or
animals:
   (A)   Are kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner;
   (B)   Have proper and adequate food, water, shelter and ventilation,
including quarters that are protected from excessive heat and cold and are of
sufficient size to permit the animal to exercise and move about freely;
   (C)   Are protected from abuse or mistreatment;
   (D)   If diseased or injured, receive proper care and, if diseased, are
segregated from other animals so as to prevent transmittal of the disease; and
   (E)   Are maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state and
local laws and with all regulations in regard to animal care and control that
are adopted from time to time by the City-County Board of Health.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow, suffer or permit an
animal to be at large within the county outside of any city or town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow, suffer or permit an
animal to be within the county outside of any city or town when the animal does
not have a current county license tag as required by this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, molest or interfere
with any authorized official in the performance of any duty described in this
chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate or permit a kennel
upon his or her premises without first obtaining a kennel license as required
in §
94.02(D).
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow, suffer or permit an
animal to disturb the peace and tranquility of the county outside of any city
or town by habitual howling, yelping, barking, meowing or otherwise.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to keep, maintain, treat or
protect an animal as required in §
94.04.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06  AUTHORITY OF AUTHORIZED AGENTS.
   The Animal Warden and any other person so designated by the Board of
Commissioners is an authorized agent of the county with authority to:
   (A)   Kill any dangerous, vicious or ferocious animal found at large which
cannot be safely captured and impounded by ordinary means, except that every
reasonable effort shall be made to avoid killing an animal which has bitten or
is suspected of having bitten a person or which appears to have rabies. If the
killing of the animal cannot reasonably be avoided, the authorized agent shall
attempt to kill the animal in a manner so as to preserve the head thereof
intact;
   (B)   Enter upon any property in the county outside any corporate limits of
any city or town when in pursuit of any animal which the authorized agent has
reasonable cause to believe is in violation of this chapter; except that, the
agent is not authorized to enter any privately owned enclosure without the
consent of the possessor, unless the agent has other proper legal
authorization; and/or
   (C)   To provide the duties and services described in divisions (A) and (B)
above for cities, towns or villages which have contracted for similar services
by the County Animal Warden pursuant to like or similar animal ordinances of
the contracting cities, towns or villages, it is the legislative intent of this
division (C) to allow entry upon any property inside the corporate limits of a
contracting city, town or village by the Animal Warden; provided, he or she is
in pursuit of any animal which the authorized agent has reasonable cause to
believe is in violation of an appropriate similar or like animal ordinance of
the contracting city, town or village; except that, the agent is not authorized
to enter any privately owned enclosure without the consent of the possessor,
unless the agent has other proper legal authorization.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 94.07  APPREHENSION AND IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS.
   It is the duty of the Animal Warden and any other person or agency so
authorized by the Board of Commissioners to apprehend and impound:
   (A)   Any animal at large;
   (B)   Any animal which has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a person
or which appears to have rabies, wherever the animal may be found, and any
animal shall be impounded for not less than 14 days;
   (C)   Any animal which disturbs the peace and tranquility of the county by
habitual howling, yelping, barking, meowing or otherwise;
   (D)   Any animal which is not kept, maintained, treated or protected as
required by §
94.04;
   (E)   Any animal which is not kept, maintained, treated or protected as
required by ordinance of any city, town or village which has contracted for the
services of the County Animal Warden to enforce provisions of their animal
ordinance; and/or
   (F)   Any animal at large, as well as any animal which disturbs the peace
and tranquility of any incorporated contracting city, town or village by
habitual howling, yelping, barking, meowing, contrary to the ordinance of the
contracting city, town or village.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 94.08  NOTICE TO OWNER.
   In the event that an impounded animal is wearing a county license tag or tag
of any contracting city, town or village, written notification shall be
delivered to the owner's residence within 48 hours of the time the animal is
first impounded. The notification shall contain information necessary to
identify the animal and shall state the date, time and location of his or her
apprehension or pick-up, and the notification shall be dated and signed by the
Animal Warden or other authorized person. The notification shall contain other
information regarding the procedure for the owner to redeem the animal as the
Board of Commissioners deems reasonably necessary.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 94.09  REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any healthy animal apprehended or impounded for being at large may be
redeemed by the owner or other person, as authorized in division (D) below, at
any time prior to the disposition of the animal under §
94.10, upon showing that the animal has a current license tag and rabies
vaccination receipt, and upon the payment to the county of a fee of $1 for each
day, or part thereof, that the animal is kept in the animal shelter and upon
the further payment to the county of the following apprehension or impounding
fees:
      (1)   Five dollars for the first time the animal is apprehended or
impounded;
      (2)   Ten dollars for the second time the animal is apprehended or
impounded; and
      (3)   Twenty dollars for the third and each subsequent time the animal is
apprehended or impounded.
   (B)   Any animal impounded, for any reason, who appears to any licensed
veterinarian to have any infectious or contagious disease, other than rabies,
may be destroyed forthwith.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal apprehended and impounded for having bitten a person,
being suspected of having bitten a person, or appearing to have rabies, shall
not be redeemed by the owner for a period of 14 days, but instead shall be kept
under observation in the Animal Shelter or a Veterinarian's Office or hospital,
for a period of 14 days at the owner's expense, unless the animal shall sooner
die; provided that, an animal apprehended and impounded under this division (C)
may be redeemed at any time upon the terms and conditions set forth in division
(A) above upon presentation of a rabies vaccination receipt showing that the
animal has been vaccinated against rabies within one year.
      (2)   At the expiration of the 14-day period, the animal may be redeemed
by the owner or other person, as authorized in division (D) below, upon the
terms and conditions set forth in division (A) above and, in addition thereto,
upon presentation of a paid receipt for all medical expenses created by the
animal.
   (D)   In the event that the owner of an animal which has been impounded,
pursuant to this chapter, except in the case of an animal impounded pursuant to
§
94.07(B), fails to redeem the animal within five days of the impounding, then
any other person may, prior to the disposition of the animal, obtain possession
of the animal upon payment to the county of a fee as herein provided in
division (A) above and also upon compliance with the requirements of this
chapter concerning the county license tag and rabies vaccination receipt.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 7-1981, passed 6-29-1981)
§ 94.10  DISPOSITION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   Any impounded animal which is not redeemed within five days after the first
day of impounding may be destroyed or disposed of by suitable and humane means;
provided that, in the event of an animal impounded pursuant to §
94.07(B), the animal shall not be destroyed or disposed of until the expiration
of a period of 14 days from the first day of impounding.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 5-1977, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 94.11  DUTIES OF MOTORISTS.
   Any person operating a motor vehicle which vehicle strikes a domestic animal
within the limits of the county shall promptly report the occurrence to the
Animal Warden, together with a description of the animal, the location where
the occurrence took place, an estimate of the condition of the animal and, if
possible, the number on the county license tag worn by the animal. The purpose
of this requirement is to permit the Animal Warden to notify the injured
animal's owner and the person making the above-required report shall not be
required to report his or her own name.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 94.12  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 2-1976, passed 4-12-1976)
CHAPTER 95:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   After dark regulations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  AFTER DARK REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to enter in to any county park after
dark at any time of the year without the express written consent of the Office
of the Superintendent of Parks, with the exception of registered guests, at
either the campgrounds or cabins. This section shall be enforceable by any
state police officer, conservation officer or any officer of the County
Sheriff's Department.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2- -2003)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
95.01 shall be fined a sum not to exceed $200.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 2- -2003)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS; BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
         
111.   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
         
112.   TATTOO AND BODY-PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
         
113.   EPHEDRINE, PSEUDOEPHEDRINE AND PHENYLPROPANOLAMINE PRODUCTS
         
114.   BATHHOUSES, MASSAGE PARLORS AND RELATED ENTERPRISES
         
115.   FOOD MARKETS
CHAPTER 110:  RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS; BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Conflict of interest
   
110.04   Effective date
Permits
   
110.20   General
   
110.21   Permit period
   
110.22   Permit content
   
110.23   Application
   
110.24   Content of the application
   
110.25   Qualifications
   
110.26   Plan requirements
   
110.27   Change of ownership
   
110.28   Responsibilities of the operator
   
110.29   Permit fees
   
110.30   Exemption from permit fees
   
110.31   Late fees
Inspection
   
110.45   General
   
110.46   Temporary food establishment
   
110.47   Performance and risk based inspections
   
110.48   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice
   
110.49   Inspection reports
   
110.50   Timely correction of critical violations
   
110.51   Refusal to sign acknowledgment
   
110.52   Public information
Compliance and Enforcement
   
110.65   Application denial
   
110.66   Permit suspension
   
110.67   Ceasing operation and contacting the County Health Department
   
110.68   Resuming operation
   
110.69   Outstanding fees
   
110.70   Enforcement options
   
110.71   Appeals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard public health and assure
that food provided to consumers is safe, unadulterated and honestly presented.
It established definitions; sets standards for management and personnel; food
operators and equipment and facilities; and provides for retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment plan reviews, permits,
inspections and employee restrictions.
   (B)   This chapter defines bed and breakfast establishment, conflict of
interest, County Health Department, official hazard analysis critical control
point, Health Officer, Hearing Officer, imminent health hazard, inspection
report, operator, order, permit, person, retail food establishment; and
temporary food establishment; requires construction and/or alteration plans;
requires a permit and payment of permit fees for the operation of bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment; prohibits sale of adulterated, unwholesome or misbranded food;
regulates inspection of the establishments; provides for compliance and the
enforcement of this chapter; provides penalties for violations of the
ordinance; and incorporates by reference I.C. 16-42-1, I.C. 16-42-2, I.C. 16-
42-5, State Department of Health Rule(s) 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-21-47,
410 I.A.C. 7-22 (effective 5- -2003), 410 I.A.C. 7-23 (effective 11-13-2004)
and 410 I.A.C. 7-24 (effective 1- -2005).
   (C)   The County Health Department is hereby authorized to issue bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment permits, collect permit fees and penalties, perform inspections,
hold hearings, order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
chapter, and is otherwise authorized to perform all actions necessary for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. (As defined in 410 I.A.C. 5-15.5.) An
operator occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provided breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. (Derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-1-1 (b)(2).) A situation in
which the private financial interest of the county official, the county
official's spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or unemancipated
child may influence the county official's judgment in the performance of a
public duty. (Note: The county officials should follow the code of ethics if a
code of ethics was established for the county officials.)
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local Health Department in the county or
authorized representative having jurisdiction over bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any official of Knox County, Indiana.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. (As defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24.) A written document that delineates for formal procedures for
following the hazard analysis critical control point principles developed by
the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer having jurisdiction in the county or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   HEARING OFFICERS. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a HEARING OFFICER in proceedings. The HEARING OFFICER is not the
HEALTH OFFICER or any other employee of the County Health Department. (Examples
of HEARING OFFICER could be the County Health Board, a subcommittee of the
County Health Board, a subcommittee of health professionals from the community
or other non-bias third party appointed by the Health Board.)
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any circumstance or situation, which in the opinion
of the Health Officer, presents a serious health risk to the public.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. (Derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9.) A County Health Department action of
particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties, privileges,
immunities or other legal interests of one or more specific Persons. The term
includes a PERMIT.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON. An association; a corporation; an individual; partnership; or other
legal entity, government or governmental subdivision or agency.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. (As derived from 410 I.A.C. 7-24.)
      (1)   An operation that:
         (a)   Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends or otherwise provided
food for human consumption, such as:
            1.   A restaurant;
            2.   A satellite or catered feeding location;
            3.   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly
to a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
            4.   A market;
            5.   A grocery store;
            6.   A convenience store;
            7.   A vending location;
            8.   A conveyance used to transport people;
            9.   An institution; or
            10.   A food bank.
         (b)   That relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
of restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carrier.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as transportation vehicle or a
central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority; and
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off the
premises and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. (As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24.) A retail food
establishment that operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in
conjunction with a single event or celebration.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.03  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No county official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner that is or
could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect on 1-1-2005.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
PERMITS
§ 110.20  GENERAL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
the county, without first obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer. The
valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   (B)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410 I.A.C.
7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a permit.
   (C)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
   (D)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
   (E)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment
permitted by the County Health Department shall be considered registered as
required in I.C. 16-42-1-6.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.21  PERMIT PERIOD.
   (A)   A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation, and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
   (B)   A permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for the term of
one continuous operation.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.22  PERMIT CONTENT.
   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit is
granted;
   (B)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
   (C)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
   (D)   Other pertinent data as may be required by the County Health Officer.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.23  APPLICATION.
   A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment shall submit to the County
Health Department a written application for a permit on a form provided by the
County Health Department.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.24  CONTENT OF THE APPLICATION.
   The application shall include:
   (A)   The name, mailing address, telephone number and original signature of
the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
   (B)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment is owned by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership or other legal entity;
   (C)   A statement specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment:
      (1)   If not permanent, is mobile and/or temporary; and
      (2)   The operation includes one or more of the following:
         (a)   Prepares, offers for sale or serves potentially hazardous food:
            1.   Only to order upon a consumer's request;
            2.   In advance in quantities based on projected consumer demand
and discards food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency;
            3.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control as specified under 410 I.A.C. 7-24; or
            4.   Prepares acidified foods as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-21-3.
         (b)   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps which may include combining
potentially hazardous ingredients; cooking; cooling; reheating; hot or cold
holding; freezing; or thawing;
         (c)   Prepares food as specified under division (C)(2)(b) above for
delivery to and consumption at a location off the premises of the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment where it is prepared;
         (d)   Prepares food as specified under division (C)(2)(b) above for
service to a highly susceptible population, as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24;
         (e)   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; or
         (f)   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food that
is not potentially hazardous.
   (D)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the operator directly
responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment
and/or temporary food establishment;
   (E)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor or the person specified under division
(D) above such as the zone, district or regional supervisor;
   (F)   The names, titles and addresses of:
      (1)   The persons comprising the legal ownership as specified under
division (B) above including the owners and operators; and
      (2)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership.
   (G)   A statement signed by the application that:
      (1)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
      (2)   Affirms that the applicant will:
         (a)   Comply with this chapter; and
         (b)   Allow the County Health Department access to the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment and records as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-
24.
   (H)   Other information required by the County Health Department.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.25  QUALIFICATIONS.
   To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
   (A)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
   (B)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment, retail
food establishment and/or temporary food establishment and provide required
information; and
   (D)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.26  PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment shall submit to the
County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for review
and approval before:
      (1)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment; or
      (3)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast establishment and/
or retail food establishment or food operation if the County Health Department
determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance
with this section.
   (B)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall include, the type of operation, type of
food preparation (as specified in Appendix B of the published version of 410
I.A.C. 7-24) and the menu.
   (C)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and approved
by County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
   (D)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and /or retail food establishment is built or remodeled in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.27  CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   The County Health Department may renew a permit for an existing bed and
breakfast establishment, and/or retail food establishment or may issue a permit
to a new owner of an existing bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail
food establishment after a properly completed application is submitted,
reviewed and approved, the fees are paid and an inspection show that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.28  RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OPERATOR.
   Upon acceptance of the permit issued by the County Health Department, the
operator in order to retain the permit shall:
   (A)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
State Department of Health;
   (B)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
   (C)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at all
reasonable times;
   (D)   Comply with directives of the County Health Department including time
frames for corrective action specified in inspection reports, notices, orders,
warnings and other directives issued by the County Health Department in regard
to the operator's bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment or in response to community emergencies;
   (E)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
   (F)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the County Health Department; and
   (G)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment that is conspicuous to consumers.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.29  PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
the county, who has not paid the permit fee required to be paid for the
operation of the establishment.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
   (C)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a bed
and breakfast establishment, a retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment shall be set by the County Health Department, as provided by the
statues of the state. (See I.C. 16-20-1-27.)
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of the fee shall be provided by the County
Health Department.
   (E)   Changes in the permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this
chapter to a bed and breakfast establishment, a retail food establishment and/
or temporary food establishment shall be set by the County Health Department,
as provided by the Statues of the state. (See I.C. 16-20-1-27.)
   (F)   The payment of the fees shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
 
Fee Schedule
Bed and breakfast   14 or less rooms                               $45
Catering                                                          $150
Mobile food service All establishments                             $67.50
Plan review         All establishments                             $45
Re-inspection fee   Follow-up inspection do to critical violations $25
 
Fee Schedule
Fee Schedule
Retail food establishment     
                            Menu type 1        $150
                            Menu type 2        $175
                            Menu type 3        $225
Seasonal permit              6 months or less   $50
Temporary food establishment All establishments $22.50 per day
                             Up to a maximum of $67.50
 
   (G)   There shall also be a late fee of $100 assessed to any retail food
establishment (Menu types 1, 2 or 3) permit request if one is submitted or
postmarked  after January 10 of the year it is due.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 2007-13, passed 12-17-2007; Ord. 2011-8,
passed 10- -2011; Ord. 9-2014, passed 10-20-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.30  EXEMPTION FROM PERMIT FEES.
   An organization that is exempt from the State Gross Income Tax under I.C. 6-
3-2-2.8 and offers food for sale to the final consumer at an event held for the
benefit of the organization is exempt from the payment of fees. The Health
Officer shall be provided, upon request, proof of an organization's tax
exemption.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.31  LATE FEES.
   (A)   A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the operation of
the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment or the
late fee for failure to renew a permit after the expiration of the permit to
operate bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment shall
be assessed. (See 410 I.A.C. 7-24.)
   (B)   The payment of fees under this chapter is not transferable or
refundable.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
INSPECTION
§ 110.45  GENERAL.
   (A)   The County Health Department shall inspect a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment at least once a year.
   (B)   The County Health Department may increase the interval between
inspections beyond one year if:
      (1)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is fully operating under an approved and validated hazard
analysis critical control point (HACCP) plan(s); or
      (2)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a
written risk-based inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied
throughout the jurisdiction.
   (C)   The County Health Department may contact the operator to determine
that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.46  TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
   The County Health Department shall periodically inspect throughout its
permit period a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or serves
unpackaged potentially hazardous food and may inspect temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells or serves unpackaged, non-potentially
hazardous food that:
   (A)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as hand-washing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, ware-washing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal and insect and rodent control; or
   (B)   Has untrained food employees.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.47  PERFORMANCE AND RISK BASED INSPECTIONS.
   Within the parameters specified in §§
110.45 and
110.46, the County Health Department shall prioritize, and conduct more
frequent inspections based upon its assessment of a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment's history of compliance with
this chapter and the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment's potential as a vector of food-borne illness by evaluating:
   (A)   Past performance, for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, and/or 410
I.A.C. 7-22 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are
critical or non-critical;
   (B)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-
15.5 and/or I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are non-critical;
   (C)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be valid;
   (D)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored or served;
   (E)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation and service;
   (F)   The number of people served; and
   (G)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.48  ACCESS ALLOWED AT REASONABLE TIMES AFTER DUE NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   After the County Health Department presents official credentials
and provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection,
the operator shall allow the County Health Department to determine if the bed
and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment is in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the
establishment, allowing inspection and providing information and records
specified in this chapter.
      (2)   The County Health Department is entitled the information and
records according to I.C. 16-42-1-13 and I.C. 16-42-5-23, during the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment's hours of operation
and other reasonable times.
   (B)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
   (C)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law. (See I.C. 16-20-1-26.)
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.49  INSPECTION REPORTS.
   At the conclusion of the inspection, the County Health Department shall
provide a copy of the completed inspection report and the notice to correct
violations to the operator or the person-in-charge, as required under I.C. 16-
20-8-5.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.50  TIMELY CORRECTION OF CRITICAL VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specified in the next paragraph, an operator shall at the
time of inspection correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, and/or
410 I.A.C. 7-22 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and implement corrective actions for a
HACCP plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit.
   (B)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Health Department may
agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator
to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
   (C)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the County Health Department shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the County Health Department's records.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.51  REFUSAL TO SIGN ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
   (A)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator's obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
   (B)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/
or temporary food establishment.
   (C)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of the
County Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.52  PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   Except as specified in § 176 (Trade Secrets) of 410 I.A.C. 7-24-194, the
County Health Department shall treat the inspection report as a public document
and shall make it available for disclosure to a person who requests it as
provided in law. (See I.C. 16-20-8-6.)
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 110.65  APPLICATION DENIAL.
   If an application for a plan renew and/or permit to operate a bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment is denied, the County Health Department shall provide the
applicant with a notice that includes:
   (A)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
   (B)   The actions, it any, that the applicant must take to qualify for the
application and/or permit; and
   (C)   Advisement of the applicant's right of appeal and the process and time
frames for appeal that are provided in law.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.66  PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   The County Health Department may suspend a permit to operate a bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment it if determines through inspection, or examination of employee,
food, records or other means as specified in this chapter, that an imminent
health hazard exists.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.67  CEASING OPERATION AND CONTACTING THE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment shall immediately discontinue
operations and notify the County Health Department if an imminent health hazard
may exist because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption
of electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic
materials, onset of an apparent food-borne illness outbreak, gross insanitary
occurrence or condition or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
   (B)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.68  RESUMING OPERATION.
   If a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment has discontinued operations for the reasons stated
above or otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the
County Health Department before resuming operations.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.69  OUTSTANDING FEES.
   Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a permit may not be
issued.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.70  ENFORCEMENT OPTIONS.
   See I.C. 16-42-5-28(g).
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 110.71  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by order issued under the enforcement options
above shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a Hearing Officer
by filing a written request therefore with the Health Officer (Secretary of the
County Board of Health; see I.C. 16-20-1-10). The written request must be
mailed or hand-delivered to the Health Officer (621 South 7th Street,
Vincennes, Indiana 47591) and must be received within 15 days after the final
order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer's receipt of the request, the Hearing Officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. (A shorter period of time
may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.)
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand-delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person's mailing address or
other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to the
Health Officer.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer establishes the rules of procedure and advised the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final order or determination of this matter in writing.
   (F)   The order completes the administrative appeals procedure.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-20-2004)
CHAPTER 111:  SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
111.01   Prohibited uses
   
111.02   Effective date
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids ("products") such as K2/
Spice, or similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds:
      (1)   (6aR,10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo(c)chromen-l-ol, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   l-Pentyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   l-Butyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative shall not be sold,
marketed or offered for sale within the county.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids ("products") may not be
burned, incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased or controlled by the county.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 9-7-2010)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect upon publication pursuant to
state law.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Persons or entities violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4. Accordingly, this chapter shall be enforced by the provisions of
I.C. 34-28-5.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 9-7-2010)
CHAPTER 112:  TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Sanitary operations of tattoo and body-piercing businesses
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   General requirements
   
112.04   Age limitation/consent
   
112.05   Consent/identification
   
112.06   General safety and sanitation standards
   
112.07   Tattoo/body-piercing operator/establishment training responsibilities
   
112.08   Tattoo/body-piercing business operator responsibilities
   
112.09   Tattoo/body-piercing operator policies
   
112.10   Tattoo/body-piercing artist IOSHA training; tattoo/body-piercing
parlor responsibility
   
112.11   Patron records
   
112.12   Illness
   
112.13   Handwashing
   
112.14   Personal protective equipment
   
112.15   Tattooing/body-piercing equipment
   
112.16   Needles
   
112.17   Reusable equipment
   
112.18   Dyes or pigments
   
112.19   Work environment
   
112.20   Infectious waste containment
   
112.21   Treatment and transportation of infectious waste
   
112.22   Post tattoo/body-piercing infection prevention
   
112.23   Regulations governing the sanitation of mobile tattoo and body
piercing business
   
112.24   Temporary tattoo and body-piercing establishments
   
112.25   Tattoo/body-piercing operator requirements and professional standards
   
112.26   Minimum standards for all establishments which offer a body-piercing
service to the public
   
112.27   Exemptions
   
112.28   Permit requirements
   
112.29   Permits
   
112.30   Revocation of permit
   
112.31   Inspections
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  SANITARY OPERATIONS OF TATTOO AND BODY-PIERCING BUSINESSES.
   All places, individuals and businesses that offer body-piercing or affix any
type of permanent tattoo to a person shall be regulated by this chapter and
shall maintain the premises in which tattoos and body-piercing are performed
and maintain equipment used in the tattoo and body-piercing process in a
sanitary manner.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOOD.  Human blood.
   BLOOD-BORNE PATHOGENS.  Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not
limited to the following:
      (1)   HBV;
      (2)   HCV;
      (3)   HIV.
   BODY-PIERCING.  The perforation of any human body part other than an earlobe
for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration or for some other non-
medical purpose.
   BRANDING.  The burning of human skin.
   CLEANED.  Removal of all visible dust, soil, or any other foreign material.
   CONTAMINATED.  The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
OPIM (other potentially infectious materials) on an item or surface.
   DECONTAMINATED.  The use of physical or chemical means to remove,
inactivate, or destroy blood-borne pathogens on a surface or item which does
not require sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of
transmitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for
handling, use, or disposal.
   DEPARTMENT.  The County Department of Health. The County Board of Health
shall be considered part of the Department, except for the purpose of
conducting any type of administrative hearing for the appeal of any decision of
the Department or Health Officer.
   HBV.  The Hepatitis B virus.
   HCV.  The Hepatitis C virus.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The duly appointed Health Officer as set forth in I.C. 16-
20-2.
   HIV.  The Human Immuno-deficiency virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE.  Waste that epidemiological evidence indicates is capable
of transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes,
but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps;
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biological,
and infectious agent stock;
      (3)   Pathological waste;
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form;
      (5)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS or OPIM.  Human body fluids as
follows:
      (1)   Semen.
      (2)   Vaginal secretions.
      (3)   Cerebrospinal fluid.
      (4)   Synovial fluid.
      (5)   Pleural fluid.
      (6)   Pericardial fluid.
      (7)   Peritoneal fluid.
      (8)   Amniotic fluid.
      (9)   Saliva in dental procedures.
      (10)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood.
      (11)   All body fluids where it is difficult or impossible to
differentiate between body fluids.
   PARENTERAL.  Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needle-sticks, human bites, cuts, or abrasions.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.  Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   PIERCING ARTIST.  An artist or person who performs boring, penetration or
tunneling through the skin or organ of a client, in order to make a space to
hold jewelry in that place.
   SCARIFICATION (SCARRING).  Includes, but is not limited to: laying the skin
wide open, via a needle; saturating the area; and the placing of autoclave sand
or other substance into the area to build up a scar.
   SECURE AREA.  An area designated and maintained to prevent the entry of
unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS.  Blood, blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE.  The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endospores.
   STORE.  The containment of infectious waste in a secure area, in such a
manner as not to constitute collection, treatment, transport, or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol, or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other instruments.
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure or symbol done by scarring, upon
or under the skin.
      (3)   Scarring or branding.
   TATTOO ARTIST.  Any person who provides a tattoo to an individual.
   TATTOO OPERATOR.  Any person who controls, operates, conducts, manages, or
owns any tattoo parlor.
   TATTOO PARLOR.  Any room or space where tattooing is provided or where the
business of tattooing is conducted.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS.  An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, HCV, and other blood-borne pathogens.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 112.03  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Operate a business that offers tattooing or body-piercing services,
unless the County Health Department has approved the business, under 410
I.A.C.1-5;
   (B)   Perform a tattooing or body-piercing procedure, in a manner that does
not meet the safety and sanitation standards established under Rule 5, 410
I.A.C. 1-5;
   (C)   Perform a tattooing or body-piercing procedure in a manner that does
not meet the standards for appropriate disinfection and sterilization of
invasive equipment or parts of equipment used in performing the procedures
established by this chapter, under Rule 5, 410 I.A.C. 1-5.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  AGE LIMITATION/CONSENT.
   (A)   No person shall perform a tattooing procedure on an individual who is
under 16 years of age, with or without parental consent, and no person shall
perform a body-piercing procedure on an individual who is under 14 years of
age, with or without parental consent. Parental consent is required to perform
a tattooing procedure on any individual between 16 and 18 years of age, and
parental consent is required to perform a body-piercing procedure on any
individual between 14 and 18 years of age. Tattooing or body-piercing may be
performed on individuals 18 years or older, without parental consent.
   (B)   A parent, guardian, or custodian of an individual under age 18, but
over 16 years of age, who desires to give consent to a business to perform on
the individual a tattooing procedure, and a parent, guardian, or custodian of
an individual under 16 years of age, but over 14 years of age who desires to
give consent to a business to perform on the individual a body-piercing
procedure, shall do both of the following:
      (1)   Appear in person at the business at the time the procedure is
performed and remain through the procedure.
      (2)   Sign a document provided by the business that explains the manner
in which the procedure will be performed and the methods for proper care of the
affected body area following performance of the procedure.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  CONSENT/IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Consent.  Unless consent has been given in accordance with the county
code, no individual, and no individual who is under age 16 years of age shall
obtain or attempt to obtain a tattooing service. Unless consent has been given
in accordance with the county code, no individual, and no individual who is
under the age of 14 years of age shall obtain or attempt to obtain a body-
piercing service.
   (B)   False information.  No individual who is under 16 years of age shall
knowingly show or give false information concerning his or her name, age, or
other identification for the purpose of obtaining a tattooing service for
himself or herself. No individual who is under the age of 14 years of age shall
knowingly show or give false information concerning his or her name, age or
other identification for the purpose of obtaining a body-piercing service for
himself or herself. Likewise, no individual shall knowingly show or give false
information or identification for another individual to receive a tattooing or
body-piercing service.
   (C)   Identification required.  Tattoo/body-piercing parlors should require
a birth certificate and picture ID of any individual receiving tattooing
services, for their own records and protection.
   (D)   Warning.  False application, altering, mutilating, or counterfeiting
Indiana birth certificates is a criminal offense under I.C. 16-37-1-12; such
false application, alteration, mutilation or counterfeiting is a Class A
misdemeanor, carrying a sentence of up to one year imprisonment and a fine of
up to $5,000.
   (E)   Impersonation of parent, guardian, custodian prohibited.  No
individual shall impersonate the parent, guardian, or custodian of an
individual who is under age 18 for the purpose of obtaining for the individual
under 18 a tattooing or body-piercing service.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  GENERAL SAFETY AND SANITATION STANDARDS.
   A business offering tattoo and/or body-piercing services shall comply with
the following provisions:
   (A)   The premises in which tattooing or body-piercing is conducted shall
consist of an area of at least 100 square feet. The floor space for each
individual performing tattoo or body piercing services shall be an area of at
least 45 square feet. These areas shall be separated from each other and from
waiting patrons or observers by a panel or by a door. Complete privacy should
be available upon a patron's request.
   (B)   The entire procedure room and equipment shall be maintained in a
clean, sanitary condition and in good repair.
   (C)   The tattoo/body-piercing business shall be equipped with artificial
light sources equivalent to at least 20 foot-candles at a distance of 30 inches
above the floor throughout the establishment. A minimum of 40 foot-candles of
light shall be provided at the level where the tattooing is being performed.
Spotlighting may be used to achieve this required degree of illumination.
   (D)   All floors directly under equipment used for tattooing and body-
piercing activities shall be an impervious, smooth, washable surface; have a
minimum dimension of six feet by six feet and shall be maintained in a sanitary
manner at all times. All walls shall be maintained in a sanitary manner.
   (E)   All tables and other equipment shall be constructed of easily
cleanable material with a smooth, washable finish.
   (F)   Restroom facilities shall be made available to the employees and
customers of the business and must be located within the establishment. The
restroom shall be accessible at all times the business is open for operation.
The restroom shall be equipped with a toilet, toilet paper installed in a
holder, lavatory supplied with hot and cold running water, liquid antimicrobial
soap and paper towels in dispensers. Equipment and supplies used in the course
of tattoo and body-piercing services or disinfection and sterilization
procedures shall not be stored or utilized within the restroom.
   (G)   A lavatory or hand washing sink, with hot and cold running water,
antimicrobial liquid soap, and paper towels in dispensers shall be located in
close proximity of each individual performing a tattoo or body-piercing
procedure.
   (H)   There shall be no overhead or otherwise exposed sewage lines so as to
create a potential hazard to the sanitary environment of the business.
   (I)   Gloves must be worn during all tattooing and body-piercing procedures.
   (J)   Clean dressing must be applied after completion of each tattoo.
   (K)   A parent, guardian, or custodian of an individual under 18 years of
age must appear in person at the business at the time the procedure is
performed.
   (L)   Prior to tattooing and body-piercing, the operator who will be
performing the procedure shall inquire of a patron for conditions which could
affect the healing process. The operator shall not perform a tattoo or body-
piercing procedure on patrons indicating the presence of such a condition
without documentation from a licensed physician, indicating acceptance of the
patient for appropriate care following the procedure.
   (M)   With respect to tattooing services, written records must be
maintained, which include the professional tattooing ink for each tattoo
performed.
   (N)   Comply with the safety and sanitation requirements for preventing
transmission of infectious diseases, as established in Rule 5, 410 I.A.C. 1-5.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  TATTOO/BODY-PIERCING OPERATOR/ESTABLISHMENT TRAINING
RESPONSIBILITIES.
   An individual or entity that is a tattoo/body-piercing operator shall comply
with the following training responsibilities:
   (A)   Ensure that the training described in the Indiana Occupational Safety
and Health Administration's Blood-borne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29
C.F.R. § 1910.1030) is provided to all tattoo and body-piercing artists, anyone
employed by the tattoo/body-piercing parlor, or anyone acting on behalf of the
tattoo/body-piercing parlor who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin,
eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM.
   (B)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is provided
to all tattoo and body-piercing artists, anyone employed by the tattoo/body-
piercing business, or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo/body-piercing
business who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane,
or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM.
   (C)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (A) is
maintained, as required under the Indiana Occupational Safety and Health
Administration's Blood-borne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030) of an individual's participation in the training that is provided.
The record shall be made available to the Department for inspection upon
request.
   (D)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (B) is
maintained.
   (E)   Each establishment (parlor) is responsible for insuring that their
personnel meet basic standards and apprenticeship training by establishing
their own requirements.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 112.08  TATTOO/BODY-PIERCING BUSINESS OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The tattoo/body-piercing business operator shall ensure that tattoo
and body-piercing artists, anyone employed by the tattoo/body-piercing
business, or anyone acting on behalf of the business who has a reasonably
anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with
blood are provided personal protective equipment and expendables needed to
implement the precautions required by this rule and the Indiana Occupational
Safety and Health Administration's Blood-borne Pathogens Standard (as found in
29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030).
   (B)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall require tattoo/body-piercing
artists, anyone employed by the tattoo/body-piercing parlor, or anyone acting
on behalf of the tattoo/body-piercing parlor who has a reasonably anticipated
risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood to
provide evidence of compliance with the universal precautions education
requirements contained in §
112.07 above.
   (C)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall display written materials
prepared or approved by the Department explaining universal precautions and
patrons' rights under this rule. The materials shall include information on how
to report violations of universal precautions and shall include information
regarding the Department's duties to investigate.
   (D)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall insure that no illicit drugs
or alcohol are consumed in the tattoo/body-piercing parlor.
   (E)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall ensure that no tattoo or body-
piercing shall be affixed to or performed on any person who is intoxicated.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09  TATTOO/BODY-PIERCING OPERATOR POLICIES.
   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall develop a written policy in
compliance with this rule and the requirements of the Indiana Occupational
Safety and Health Administration's Blood-borne Pathogen Standard (as found in
29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030) that:
   (A)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing tattooing,
body-piercing and/or any activity or duty that includes any reasonably
anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or
OPIM;
   (B)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste;
   (C)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if warranted,
for failure to use universal precautions and/or handle infectious waste safely.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 112.10  TATTOO/BODY-PIERCING ARTIST IOSHA TRAINING; TATTOO/BODY-PIERCING
PARLOR RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the tattoo/body-piercing parlor to assure
that anyone employed by the establishment, and anyone acting on behalf of the
tattoo/body-piercing parlor who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin,
eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM shall complete
the training program that is required under the requirements of the Indiana
Occupational Safety and Health Administration's Blood-borne Pathogen Standard
(as found in 29 C.F.R § 1910.1030). The programs under this section shall be as
follows:
      (1)   A blood-borne pathogen training session provided by the tattoo/
body-piercing operator meeting the requirements under the Indiana Occupational
Safety and Health Administration's (lOSHA's) (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030).
      (2)   Any blood-borne pathogen continuing education program accredited by
a health care licensing entity.
   (B)   Anyone employed by the tattoo/body-piercing parlor or acting in behalf
of the tattoo/body-piercing parlor who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral contact with blood OPIM must be
trained in the tattoo/body-piercing parlor's policies on the handling of
infectious waste.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 112.11  PATRON RECORDS.
   Records of each patron shall be maintained for two years. The record shall
include:
   (A)   Patron's name;
   (B)   Patron's address;
   (C)   Age: must be verified by one photo identification item or two non-
photo identification items;
   (D)   Date tattooing or body-piercing was performed;
   (E)   Design of the tattoo;
   (F)   Location of the tattoo or body-piercing on the patron's body;
   (G)   Name and description of decorative implement or other implement placed
into the pierce body area;
   (H)   The name of the tattoo/body-piercing artist who performed the work;
   (I)   Parental consent must be in writing when performed on any minor as
permitted by law.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 112.12  ILLNESS.
   Anyone employed by a tattoo/body-piercing parlor or action in behalf of the
establishment who is experiencing symptoms of acute disease that include, but
are not limited to:
   (A)   Diarrhea;
   (B)   Vomiting;
   (C)   Fever;
   (D)   Potentially infectious rash;
   (E)   Productive cough;
   (F)   Jaundice; or
   (G)   Draining (or open) skin infections, boils, impetigo, or scabies.
Shall refrain from providing tattoos or body-piercings.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13  HAND WASHING.
   (A)   Hand washing facilities shall be readily accessible in the same room
where tattooing and body-piercing are provided.
   (B)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately before
putting on sterile gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal
protective equipment.
   (C)   Only single use towels shall be used.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14  PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Appropriate personal protective equipment shall be worn as follows:
   (A)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM.
   (B)   Masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles or
glasses with solid side shield, or chin length face shield, shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter, or droplets of blood or OPIM may be
generated and eye, nose, or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Disposable gloves shall be worn during the tattooing and body-piercing
process. Gloves shall be changed and properly disposed of each time there is an
interruption in the application of a tattoo or body-piercing, when the gloves
become torn or punctured, or whenever the ability to function as a barrier is
compromised. Disposable gloves shall not be reused.
   (D)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces and
equipment.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.15  TATTOOING/BODY-PIERCING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Only single use razors shall be used to shave the area to be tattooed,
or body part to be pierced. Single-use razors shall be discarded in sharps
containers immediately after use.
   (B)   The stencil for transferring a design to the skin is to be single-use
only, and shall be properly disposed of after a single use.
   (C)   After shaving the area to be tattooed or pierced, or if the area does
not need to be shaved, the site of the tattoo or piercing shall be cleaned with
soap and warm water, rinsed with clean water and a germicidal solution applied
in a sanitary manner before a piercing, or before a design is placed on the
skin for use during tattooing. Other sterile, individual towels or gauze shall
be used in preparing the site to be tattooed or pierced, and proper disposed of
after use on each patron.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16  NEEDLES.
   (A)   Needles shall come packaged and sterilized prior to use, for each
tattoo or body-piercing.
   (B)   Needles shall be single use only.
   (C)   Needles shall be discarded in sharps containers immediately after use.
   (D)   Contaminated needles shall not be bent or broken or otherwise
manipulated by hand.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17  REUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Autoclave sterilization must be used when heat stable, non-disposable
equipment is sterilized.
   (B)   Records must be maintained to document:
      (1)   Duration of sterilization technique;
      (2)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a biological
indicator, including spores, is performed monthly;
      (3)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner's manual and
proof is available that the owner's manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
   (C)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in a
manner that requires any person to reach by hand into the containers where
these sharp items have been placed.
   (D)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be:
      (1)   Placed in puncture-resistant containers;
      (2)   Labeled with biohazard symbol;
      (3)   Leak-proof on both sides and bottom;
      (4)   Stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into the
container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to sterilization.
   (E)   Contaminated reusable equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior to
sterilization.
   (F)   Reusable tubes shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized before
reuse.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18  DYES OR PIGMENTS.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments in tattooing shall be from professional suppliers
specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by tattoo artists, only non-
toxic sterile materials shall be used. Single use or individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean, sterilized containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single use or
individual containers shall be discarded along with the container.
   (D)   Written instructions shall be given to each patron or customer on the
care of the skin on the tattooed site, to prevent infection after each
tattooing. A copy of these instructions shall also be posted in a conspicuous
place in the tattoo establishment, and be clearly visible to the person being
tattoo.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19  WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   No tattooing or body-piercing shall be conducted in any room used as
living quarters or in any room that opens directly into living or sleeping
quarters.
   (B)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where tattooing or body-
piercing is being conducted. This exclusion does not apply to:
      (1)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police officers;
      (2)   Guide dogs accompanying:
         (a)   Blind persons;
         (b)   Partially blind persons;
         (c)   Physically disabled persons;
         (d)   Guide dog trainers;
         (e)   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (C)   Eating, drinking, smoking, or applying cosmetics shall not be allowed
in work areas where there is a likelihood of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (D)   Food and drink shall not be kept in areas where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
decontaminated after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (F)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization that
have been contaminated by blood shall be cleaned and decontaminated.
   (G)   All work surfaces shall be:
      (1)   Non-absorbent;
      (2)   Easily cleanable;
      (3)   Smooth;
      (4)   Free of:
         (a)   Breaks;
         (b)   Open seams;
         (c)   Cracks;
         (d)   Chips;
         (e)   Pits;
         (f)   Similar imperfections.
   (H)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   A hospital-grade, tuberculocidal Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; or
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite, 0.5% concentration, by volume (common
household bleach is 10% concentration in water); the solution shall be dated
and shall not be used if it is more that 24 hours old.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.20  INFECTIOUS WASTE CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   Contaminated disposable needles or sharp instruments shall be, stored
in leak-resistant, puncture-resistant containers, tightly sealed to prevent
expulsion, labeled with the biohazard symbol, and effectively treated in
accordance with this rule, prior to being stored in an unsecured area and sent
for final disposal.
   (B)   Infectious wastes other than contaminated sharps or objects that could
potentially become contaminated sharps shall be placed in bags that meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   Impervious to moisture;
      (2)   Sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
      (3)   Secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
      (4)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol;
      (5)   Effectively treated in accordance with this rule prior to being
placed in an unsecured area and sent for final disposal.
   (C)   If infectious waste is stored prior to final disposal, all persons
subject to this rule shall store infectious waste in a secure area that:
      (1)   Is locked or otherwise secured to eliminate access by or exposure
to the general public;
      (2)   Affords protection from adverse environmental conditions and
vermin;
      (3)   Has a prominently displayed biohazard symbol.
   (D)   Infectious waste shall be stored in a manner that preserves the
integrity of the container, and is not conductive to rapid microbial growth and
putrefaction.
   (E)   Reusable containers must be disinfected against infectious waste, each
time that they are emptied, unless the surfaces of the reusable containers have
been protected from contamination by disposable liners, bags or other devices
that are removed with the infectious waste.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21  TREATMENT AND TRANSPORTATION OF INFECTIOUS WASTE.
   (A)   All tattoo/body-piercing operators shall ensure that infectious waste
is either treated on-site in accordance with this rule or transported off-site
for treatment in accordance with this rule.
   (B)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities of
infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste
involved, and is carried out in a manner consistent with this rule. Effective
treatment may include:
      (1)   Incineration in an incinerator designed to accommodate infectious
waste;
      (2)   Steam sterilization;
      (3)   Chemical disinfecting under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
      (4)   Thermal inactivation;
      (5)   Irradiation; or
      (6)   Discharge in a sanitary sewer or septic system that is properly
installed and operating in accordance with state and local laws.
   (C)   All persons subject to this rule shall:
      (1)   Transport infectious waste in a manner that reasonably protects
waste hauler and the public from contracting a dangerous communicable disease;
and
      (2)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this rule
before it is compacted.
   (D)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall ensure that infectious waste,
effectively treated or not, is transported off-site in compliance with 410
I.A.C. 1-3.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22  POST TATTOO/BODY-PIERCING INFECTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Each tattoo/body-piercing business is to provide instruction to its
clients in methods to prevent infection, such as the use of bactericidal creams
and ointments and soap, and appropriate barrier dressings where indicated.
   (B)   Each client should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention
should there be any evidence of infection.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.23  REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE SANITATION OF MOBILE TATTOO AND BODY
PIERCING BUSINESS.
   In addition, to comply with all of the requirements of this code, mobile
tattoo/body-piercing vehicles and operators working from the mobile tattoo and
body-piercing establishment shall also comply with all of the following
requirements.
   (A)   Mobile tattoo and body-piercing businesses are permitted for use only
at special events lasting 14 calendar days or less. Permits must be obtained at
least 14 days prior to the event, and no tattoo or body-piercing procedures are
to be performed prior to a permit being issued. Permit holders are responsible
for ensuring that all other local agency regulations are complied with, such
as, but not limited to, zoning and business license requirements.
   (B)    Tattoos and/or body-piercings performed pursuant to this section
shall be done only from an enclosed vehicle such as a trailer or mobile-home,
having an interior floor space of at least 100 square feet. No tattoos or body-
piercing procedures shall be performed outside of the enclosed vehicle.
     (C)   The mobile tattoo/body-piercing business shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition at all times. Doors shall be self-closing and
tight-fitting. Operable windows shall have tight-fitting screens.
   (D)   Mobile tattoo/body-piercing businesses must have approved
sterilization equipment available, in accordance with all requirements of the §
112.17 on sterilization of equipment.
   (E)   The mobile tattoo and body-piercing business shall be used only for
the purpose of performing tattoos or body-piercing procedures. No habitation or
cooking is permitted inside the vehicle.
   (F)   The mobile tattoo and body-piercing business shall be equipped with an
equipment-washing sink and a separate hand-sink for the exclusive use of the
operator, for handwashing and preparing the client for the tattoo or body-
piercing procedures. The hand-sink shall be supplied with hot and cold running
water under pressure to a mixing type faucet, and antimicrobial liquid soap and
paper towels in dispensers. An adequate supply of potable water shall be
maintained for the mobile tattoo and body-piercing business at all times during
operation.
   (G)   All liquid wastes shall be stored in an adequate storage tank with
capacity at least 50% greater than the capacity of the onboard potable water
supply. Liquid wastes shall be disposed of at a site approved by the
Department.
   (H)   A hand-sink shall be supplied with hot and cold running water under
pressure to a mixing type faucet; antimicrobial liquid soap and paper towels in
dispensers.
   (I)   All tattoo/body-piercing operators working in a mobile tattoo/body-
piercing business must comply with the operator requirements of this code.
   (J)   No animals, except service animals of clients shall be allowed in the
mobile tattoo/body-piercing business at any time.
   (K)   Mobile tattoo/body-piercing businesses must receive an initial
inspection at a location specified by the Department prior to use to ensure
compliance with structural requirements. Additional inspections will be
performed at every event where the mobile tattoo/body-piercing is scheduled to
operate.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.24  TEMPORARY TATTOO AND BODY-PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. General requirements are that the temporary
tattoo/body-piercing operations are to comply with all aspects of the
provisions relating to temporary certificates, health, cleanliness and personal
hygiene of operators, practices and procedures for tattoo/body-piercing
establishments and notifications, as specified in §§
112.02 through
112.10, and
112.12 through
112.22 above.
   (B)   Site requirements.
      (1)   Tattooing/body-piercing must be conducted within a building or
structure, having an interior floor space of at least 100 square feet, which
provides protection against the elements and dust, and is free of insects,
rodents, other nuisances or pests. The tattooing/body-piercing area is to be
separated by a partition from any retail sales or other such activity which may
cause potential contamination of work surfaces.
      (2)   Adequate light and ventilation is to be provided at the work
location.
      (3)   Facilities shall have easy access to adequate toilet facilities and
a lavatory with hot and cold running water, as part of surrounding premises or
adjacent to the facility.
      (4)   All needles or any other sharp objects which may have come into
contact with blood or blood products are to be disinfected by immersion or
autoclaved prior to placement in a sealed, rigid container for disposal by the
tattoo artist/body-piercer. All other wastes are to be removed and properly
disposed.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.25  TATTOO/BODY-PIERCING OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS AND PROFESSIONAL
STANDARDS.
   The following information shall be kept on file on the premises of a tattoo/
body-piercing establishment and available for inspection by the Department.
   (A)   The names of all operators/technicians in the establishment and their
exact duties, including the following information:
      (1)   Full names; date of birth; gender; home address; home/work phone
numbers; identification photos of all operators/technicians;
      (2)   Establishment name; hours of operation; owner's name and address;
      (3)   A complete description of all body art procedures performed;
      (4)   An inventory of all instruments and body jewelry, all sharps, and
all inks used for any and all body art procedures, including names of
manufactures and serial or lot numbers, if available or applicable;
      (5)   A copy of these regulations.
   (B)   Permits shall be prominently displayed in the body art establishment
and shall not be defaced or altered in any manner.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform tattoo or body-piercing
procedures unless such procedures are performed in a tattoo/body-piercing
establishment with a current permit.
   (D)   The operator must be a minimum of 18 years of age.
   (E)   Smoking, eating or drinking by anyone is prohibited in the area where
tattoos and body-piercings are performed.
   (F)   Operators shall refuse service to any person who, in the opinion of
the operator, is under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
   (G)   The operator shall maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness,
conform to hygienic practices and wear clean clothes when performing tattoo or
body-piercing procedures. Before performing tattoos or body-piercings, the
operator must thoroughly wash hands in hot running water with liquid
antimicrobial soap, then rinse hands and dry with disposable paper towels. This
shall be done as often as necessary to remove contaminants.
   (H)   In performing tattoos and body-piercing procedures, the operator shall
wear disposable medical gloves. The gloves shall be discarded, at a minimum,
after the completion of each procedure on an individual client.
   (I)   If, while performing a tattoo or body-piercing procedure the
operator's glove is pierced, torn or otherwise contaminated, the procedures (in
divisions (G) and (H) above) shall be repeated immediately. The contaminated
gloves shall be immediately discarded and the hands washed thoroughly (see
division (G) above) before fresh pair of gloves is applied. Any item or other
instrument used for a tattoo or body-piercing which is contaminated during the
procedure shall be discarded and replaced immediately with new ones before the
procedure resumes.
   (J)   Contaminated waste, as defined in this code, which may release liquid
blood or body fluids when compressed or may release dried blood or body fluids
when handled must be placed in an approved "red" bag which is marked with the
international biohazard symbol. It must then be disposed of by a waste hauler
approved by the Department. Sharps ready for disposal shall be disposed of in
approved sharps containers. Contaminated waste which does not release liquid
blood or body fluids when compressed or does not release dried blood or body
fluids when handled may be placed in a covered receptacle and disposed of
through normal, approved disposal methods. Storage of contaminated waste on-
site shall not exceed the period specified by the Department or more than a
maximum of 30 days.
   (K)   No person shall perform any tattoo or body-piercing procedure upon a
person under the age of 18 years without the presence, consent and proper
identification of a parent, legal custodial parent or legal guardian. Nothing
in this section is intended to require an operator to perform any tattoo or
body-piercing procedure on a person under 18 years of age with parental or
guardian consent.
   (L)   Any skin or mucosa surface to receive a tattoo or body-piercing
procedure shall be free of rash, infection or any other visible pathological
condition.
   (M)   The skin of the operator shall be free of rash, infection or any other
visible pathological condition. No person or operator affected with boils,
infected wounds, open sores, abrasions, exudative lesions, acute respiratory
infection, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or jaundice shall work in any area of a
tattoo/body-piercing establishment in any capacity in which there is a
likelihood of contaminating tattoo or body-piercing equipment, supplies or
working surfaces with pathogenic organisms.
   (N)   Each tattoo artist and operator should be able to provide the
following information, upon request of the Department: that each tattoo artist
and operator has either completed or been offered and declined, in writing, the
Hepatitis B vaccination series; that antibody testing has revealed that the
employee is immune to Hepatitis B; or that the vaccine is contraindicated for
medical reasons.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ALL ESTABLISHMENTS WHICH OFFER A BODY-PIERCING
SERVICE TO THE PUBLIC.
   The following are procedures and practices for body-piercing.
   (A)   Piercings of minors will be permitted only with a legal guardian
present, and must comply with §§
112.04 and
112.05 above. Certain piercings forbidden (See division (EE) below). Both
guardian and child must read, understand and sign the release form. Both
parties must provide valid identification. Both parties must fully understand
post piercing after-care suggestions.
   (B)   Piercing an obviously intoxicated person is prohibited.
   (C)   The use of properly configured, autoclave sterilization units on all
reusable items is mandatory. Monthly efficacy testing, via a""spore test", is
mandatory. A sign, prominently posted, shall apprise the public of the
existence of the results of this monthly test and invite them to review said
results. "Dry" heat, glass bead or pressure cookers are not acceptable methods
of sterilization.
   (D)   Signage requesting patrons to refrain from removing their own jewelry
should be easily visible.
   (E)   Counter tops, displays and doorknobs must be non-porous and frequently
disinfected throughout the day and as needed. Disinfectant hand wipes such as
SaniDex® should be readily available for patrons' use.
   (F)   Operators must attend and pass a certified CPR and basic first aid
class.
   (G)   Owners who have employees must implement OSHA Blood Borne Pathogens
Standard #1910.1030.
   (H)   An understanding of and vigilant use of cross contamination prevention
and infection control must be documented.
   (I)   Thorough hand washing, utilizing sufficient amounts of liquid anti-
bacterial soap (pump dispenser or better) and running water must be performed
immediately prior and immediately after each individual service. Single-use,
disposable paper products are to be used. Enclosed "C" fold paper towels are
preferred over standard exposed roles.
   (J)   New, clean and fresh disposable medical gloves are to be worn for each
new service. Gloves must be changed after each occurrence of contamination.
Gloves should be stored in a very clean, closed container when not in use.
   (K)   All needles must come individually bagged and autoclave sterilized,
used on one client and one client only and immediately disposed of in an OSHA-
approved sharps container. Yearly removal of full (two-thirds), sealed labeled
containers, by a medical waste disposal service, which follows Indiana
Infectious waste rule (410 I.A.C. 1-3), must be documented. Reuse of piercing
needles is strictly prohibited.
   (L)   After soaking in an enzymatic detergent such as Enzol® (or equivalent)
for no less than ten  minutes, used reusable tools must be fully submerged in
an ultra sonic cleaner for no less than 15 minutes, then air dried prior to
autoclaving.
   (M)   All reusable, stainless steel instruments must be autoclaved in
appropriate, dated, sealed bags with indicator strips fully visible. Bags left
unopened, in a closed container, for longer than 30 days, must be re-
autoclaved. Immediately after use, the tool is to be placed in a lidded, non-
porous container to await detergent soak, ultrasonic cleaning, drying and
bagging, prior to autoclaving. This container must be disinfected at least
daily.
   (N)   A hospital-level, hard surface disinfectant such as MadaCide® (or
equivalent) must be employed on all involved surfaces prior to every
individual's piercing session. All involved surfaces must be non-porous and in
excellent repair. If spray dispensers are used, spray should be directed into a
clean, disposable paper towel; then, the towel should be used to disinfect the
surface. Impregnated towelettes, Sani-Cloth®, are preferred for this
application.
   (O)   All supplies that come into contact with the piercing station should
be in "single portion" form. Including, but not limited to, anti-bacterial
ointments, iodine swabs, alcohol wipes and the like. These packages must be
wiped down with a hospital-level, hard surface disinfectant and air dried,
prior to being stored in very clean, closed containers.
   (P)   Floors in the piercing area must be non-porous, of solid, durable
construction and disinfected on a regular basis, and as needed. Carpeting is
prohibited.
   (Q)   All oral piercing shall be preceded by the client performing a one
minute, vigorous application of an antiseptic mouthwash such as Listerine®
   (R)   All other pre-piercing sites must be thoroughly cleaned with an
iodine-based product such as Betadine® (or equivalent) for one full minute. All
traces of iodine must be removed before the client departs. On individuals with
iodine sensitivity, Benzethonium Chloride (or equivalent) solution is an
acceptable substitute.
   (S)   Corks and rubber bands must be autoclaved. Single-use packaging is
preferred. Bulk sterilized supplies must be kept in a very clean, closed
container, opened and touched with fresh gloves only.
   (T)   All insertable jewelry is to be sterilized (individually is preferred)
and kept in a sterile, closed container. Sterilized jewelry is to be soaked in
a hospital-level, hard surface disinfectant, for no less than ten minutes prior
to insertion. Jewelry must be thoroughly dried before insertion. Jewelry
previously worn by anyone other than the pierce must be autoclave processed.
   (U)   All jewelry is to be made of high quality 14k solid gold, surgical
grade stainless steel (316L series), niobium, titanium, platinum or inert
plastics. No silver, gold-plated or gold-filled jewelry is to be inserted in
fresh piercings. Reasonable requests for non-commercial reasons, to divulge the
manufacturer of the jewelry for sale, should be met.
   (V)   Sterilized items, in unopened bags, must be left in the autoclave to
dry. The door on the autoclave may be left slightly ajar to facilitate drying.
Once dry, using clean and fresh gloves, bagged tools must be placed in a very
clean, closed container.
   (W)   A separate, dedicated area must be provided for the preparation,
cleaning and disinfection of tools and equipment.
   (X)   A service sink, with hot and cold running water, is to be separated
from the above area. Wrist, elbow, infrared or foot operated fixtures must be
installed. This sink is never to be used for food or drink preparation.
   (Y)   Disposable table paper should be provided and changed between clients.
   (Z)   Privacy screens or devices must be made available at the patron's
request.
   (AA)   Good ventilation must be available. The use of air "scrubbers" (HEPA
filters) is encouraged.
   (BB)   All restrooms available to the public must be kept clean and
disinfected regularly and as needed.
   (CC)   Written detailed post-piercing aftercare suggestions must be
provided.
   (DD)   Piercers shall maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness and
wear clean clothing. Piercers should refrain from piercing while under the
influence of medications that may cause drowsiness. Piercers should use
discretion when considering whether to work while ill.
   (EE)   Penile piercings which invade the Urethra and commonly known as
Prince Albert, Ampallang and Apadravya are forbidden.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.27  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Physicians licensed by the State of Indiana who utilize tattooing or
body piercing procedures as part of patient treatment are exempt from these
regulations.
   (B)   Ear lobe piercings are exempt.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 112.28  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Establishment permit.
      (1)   No person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, business
trust, corporation or any organized group of persons may operate a body art
establishment unless it has received a body art establishment permit from the
Department.
      (2)   Any person operating a body art establishment shall obtain a permit
from the Department, annually, with beginning/ending permit time frames and
fees to be set by the Department.
      (3)   The applicant shall pay a reasonable fee as set by the Department
for each body art establishment permit.
      (4)   A body art establishment permit shall not be transferable from one
place or person to another.
      (5)   A current body art establishment permit shall be posted in a
prominent and conspicuous area where it may be readily observed by clients.
   (2)   Operator permit.
      (1)   No person shall practice body art procedures without first
obtaining a permit from the Department. The Department shall set a reasonable
fee for such permits.
      (2)   Application for operator permits shall include: name; date of
birth; sex; residence; mailing address; phone number; place(s) of employment as
an operator; training and/or experience; proof of attendance at a blood-borne
pathogen training program (or equivalent), given or approved by the Department.
      (3)   Demonstration of knowledge of infectious disease control including
waste disposal, and washing techniques, sterilizing equipment operation and
methods, and sanitation/disinfection/sterilization methods and techniques;
facility safety and sanitation knowledge of the above subjects may also be
demonstrated through submission of documentation of attendance/completion of
courses or successful completion of an examination approved or given by the
Department with a passing grade of 70, attained prior to issuance of the
operator permit.
      (4)   No operator permit shall be issued unless, following reasonable
investigation by the Department, the Body art operator has demonstrated
compliance with the provisions of this section and all other provisions of this
code.
      (5)   All operator permits shall be conditioned upon continued compliance
with the provisions of this section, as well as all applicable provisions of
this code.
      (6)   All operator permits shall be posted in a prominent and conspicuous
area where it may be readily observed by clients.
   (C)   Temporary establishment/operator permit.  Temporary establishment and,
when required, operator permits may be issued for body art services provided
outside of the physical site of a certified facility for the purposes of
product demonstration, industry trade shows, or for educational reasons.
      (1)   Temporary operator and/or establishment permits will not be issued
unless:
         (a)   The applicant furnishes proof of compliance with sections,
above, relating to operator's permits; and
         (b)   The applicant is currently affiliated with a fixed location or
permanent facility which, where applicable, is permitted by the appropriate
state and/or local jurisdiction; and
         (c)   The temporary site complies with temporary establishment
requirements, of this regulation.
      (2)   In lieu of attendance at a blood-borne pathogens training program
given by the Department within the past three years as specified above, the
applicant may furnish proof of attendance at equivalent training which is
acceptable to the Department.
      (3)   Temporary permits expire after 14 days or the conclusion of the
special event, whichever is less.
      (4)   Temporary operator and/or establishment license will not be issued
unless the applicant has paid a reasonable fee as set by the Department.
      (5)   The temporary establishment/operator license(s) shall not be
transferable from one place or person to another.
      (6)   The temporary establishment/operator licenses shall be posted in a
prominent and conspicuous area where they may be readily observed by patrons.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.29  PERMITS.
   (A)   Business. Each tattoo/body-piercing parlor operation shall obtain a
permit from the County Health Department. The permit shall provide the name and
address of the owner of the business and name and address of each and every
tattoo/body-piercing artist located at each site. The cost for this permit
shall be $200 as determined by the County Board of Health and shall not be
transferable. In addition, each tattoo/body-piercing artist, excluding the
business owner/artist, will be required to pay a fee of $50 annually. The
permit expires on December 31 of each year. Any holder of a permit shall be
subject to inspection as set forth herein. The County Health Department shall
provide the appropriate forms for this permit. The permit shall be posted at
the tattoo/body-piercing parlor in the place where the tattoos and/or body-
piercing are performed and clearly visible to the public.
   (B)   Temporary or mobile business. Each temporary or mobile tattoo/body-
piercing parlor shall also obtain a permit from the County Health Department.
The permit shall provide the name and address of the owner of the business and
the name and address of each and every tattoo/body-piercing artist located at
each business. The permit cost for in-county establishments shall be $500 as
determined by the County Board of Health and shall not be transferable. The
permit cost for out-of-county establishments shall be $500 as determined by the
County Board of Health and shall not be transferable. The permit expires on the
last day of any one event that the permit is purchased for, not to exceed five
days for any one event. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection
as set forth herein. The County Health Department shall provide the appropriate
forms for this permit. The permit shall be posted at the tattoo/body-piercing
business in the place where the tattoos and/or body-piercings are performed,
and clearly visible to the public.
   (C)   Owner/operator. In the event that a tattoo/body-piercing parlor is a
sole proprietorship and the owner shall also perform tattooing or body-piercing
for the business, the owner shall only be required to obtain a business permit
as described in this section.
   (D)   Pro ratio of fees. In the event that a business shall apply for a
permit any time prior to July 1, of any year, they shall be responsible for the
total annual fee as described in this section. In the event that a business
shall apply for a permit any time after July 1, they shall be required to pay
one half of the annual fee. All permits shall expire on December 31 of the year
in which they were issued.
   (E)   Non-transferable. No permit issued to a tattoo/body-piercing
establishment is transferable.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 112.30  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Health Officer may suspend or revoke the permit of any tattoo/body-
piercing business for any period of time for any violation of this chapter,
state or federal regulations concerning blood-borne pathogens, tattoos, body-
piercing or work place regulations (OSHA). The suspension and/or revocation
shall be effective upon issuance by the Health Officer. The establishment may
have the permit reinstated upon compliance with this chapter, state, or federal
regulations concerning blood-borne pathogens, tattoos, body-piercing or work
place regulations (OSHA) and to the satisfactions of the Health Officer.
Appeals of orders of revocation shall be conducted pursuant to I.C. 4-21.5-3-
1 et seq. The Board of Health shall conduct administrative hearings concerning
the suspension or revocation of any permit issued herein as set forth in I.C.
4-21.5-3 et seq.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003) 
§ 112.31  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The County Health Department shall conduct inspections of each and
every tattoo/body-piercing parlor located in Knox County, Indiana. The Health
Department shall conduct a minimum of one inspection per year. Additional
inspections may be conducted by the Health Department as they determine and/or
in response to complaints submitted. The results of the inspections shall be
provided to each operator. Violations noted by the Health Department shall be
corrected immediately.  The Department shall conduct follow-up inspections to
determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The County Health Officer may bring an action in the Circuit or
Superior Court to enforce this chapter. The Health Officer shall be entitled to
recover all costs and expenses associated with any action for enforcement of
this chapter including reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   If an operator of a tattoo/body-piercing establishment shall fail to obtain
a business permit prior to conducting their business, or at any time after one
has been issued but has expired, the establishment may be subject to a fine of
not more than $400. Each day the establishment shall be in violation of this
chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-6-2003)
CHAPTER 113:  EPHEDRINE, PSEUDOEPHEDRINE AND PHENYLPROPANOLAMINE PRODUCTS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Limitations on the sale or purchase of ephedrine products
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person who purchases or acquires products from any retail
store.
   EPHEDRINE. Any drug, substance or compound, whether legal or illegal, that
contains ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine
hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate or phenylpropanolamine.
   PACKAGE. Any bottle, box, blister pack or other container in which products
containing ephedrine are sold.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   RETAIL STORE. Any single geographic location of any business, company,
corporation, person, employee or associate, that sells ephedrine to any
customer. It does not include any wholesaler engaged in a wholesale
transaction.
   SELL. To furnish, give away, exchange, transfer, deliver, surrender,
distribute or supply, whether or not for monetary gain or other consideration.
   WHOLESALER. One whose business is the selling of goods in gross to retail
stores for purposes of resale.
(Ord. (joint) 2005-5, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 113.02  LIMITATIONS ON THE SALE OR PURCHASE OF EPHEDRINE PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Each retail store or wholesaler shall require from its customer a
picture form of identification showing he or she is of legal age (18) and which
contains a current address. All information obtained shall be recorded in an
appropriate manner and a copy of this report shall be forwarded to the County
Sheriff Department at the end of each calendar month.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, retail store or wholesaler during a
single transaction to sell to a customer more than two packages of products
containing ephedrine.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any customer to purchase or otherwise acquire more
than two packages of products containing ephedrine within a ten-day period.
   (D)   This chapter excludes any prescription written by a licensed physician
and a pharmacist providing the drugs for a prescription.
(Ord. (joint) 2005-5, passed 5-10-2005)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined $2,500. Each
day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and subject to the aforementioned fine.
(Ord. (joint) 2005-5, passed 5-10-2005)
CHAPTER 114:  BATHHOUSES, MASSAGE PARLORS AND RELATED ENTERPRISES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Applications for licenses
   
114.04   License fees
   
114.05   Operation
   
114.06   Issuance or rejection of application; qualifications
   
114.07   Complaints
   
114.08   Legal action
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATHHOUSE. Any building, room, place or establishment, or other than a
regularly licensed hospital, dispensary, hotel rooming house or public lodging
house, where members of the public are provided with baths, regardless of
whether steam, vapor, water, sauna or otherwise.
   BODY PAINTING MODEL. Any person who allows any part of his or her body to be
painted with any paint, dye, tint, spray or other material while the person is
serving as an employee or receiving other compensation by or through any body
painting studio, as defined herein.
   BODY PAINTING STUDIO. Any shop, establishment, place of business or other
operation that employs or otherwise compensates persons for serving as models
for the painting of any part of the human body with any paint, dye, tint, spray
or other material.
   ESCORT. Any person who is employed of otherwise compensated by or through
any escort service for serving as an escort, host or hostess.
   ESCORT SERVICE. Any shop, establishment, place of business or other
operation that employs or otherwise compensates persons to serve as escorts,
hosts or hostesses.
   MASSAGE. Any method of treating the superficial soft parts of the body for
remedial or hygienic purposes, consisting of rubbing, stroking, kneading or
tapping with the hands or instruments.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any building, room, place or establishment, other than a
regularly licensed hospital or dispensary where non-medical and non-surgical
manipulative exercises are practiced upon the human body with or without the
use of mechanical or bath devices, by anyone not a physician, osteopath,
chiropractor, podiatrist or physical therapist duly registered with and
licensed by the state.
   MASSAGE SCHOOL. Any bathhouse of massage parlor, defined herein, where the
act of massage, as defined herein, is either taught or practiced.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. Any person who practices, administers or teaches all or
any of the subjects or methods of treatment, defined herein as massage therapy.
   MASSAGE THERAPY. The act of body massage, either by mechanical or electrical
apparatus, for the purpose of reducing or contouring the body by the use of oil
rub, salt, hot and cold packs, cold showers and cabinet baths.
   MASSAGE THERAPY CLINIC. Any shop, establishment or place of business where
any or all of the methods of massage therapy are administered or used.
   MASSAGE THERAPY SCHOOL. Any duly registered massage therapy establishment
where a tuition is charged for the instruction of massage therapy techniques.
   NUDE MODEL. Any person who engages in nude modeling for a nude modeling
studio.
   NUDE MODELING. The posing by any person with his or her sexual and/or
genital areas exposed, while the person is an employee or receiving other
compensation by or through any nude modeling at or on behalf of any properly
accredited institution of higher learning shall not fall within this
definition.
   NUDE MODELING STUDIO. Any shop, establishment, place of business or other
operation that employs or otherwise compensates persons for serving as models
for purposes of nude modeling. However, any properly accredited institution of
higher learning shall not fall within this definition.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization or association  maintaining clubrooms or other
recreation or social facilities used primarily for purposes other than a
bathhouse or massage parlor, membership in which is limited to persons paying
regular dues or assessments.
   PRIVATE HEALTH CLUB. A facility for exercise and physical training which is
operated for, and open only to, members of a private club and their invited
guests.
   SEXUAL AND GENITAL AREA. The sexual or genital area of any person and shall
include the genitals, pubic area, anus or perineum of any person, or the vulva
or breast of a female.
(Ord. 4-1980, passed - -1980)
§ 114.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or firm to operate, conduct or maintain
a massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort
service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio without a license to
operate the massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse,
escort service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio issued by the
County Auditor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm licensed to operate a
massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort
service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio to employ or permit any
person to perform a massage unless the person is licensed as a massage
therapist by the County Auditor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be employed as a massage
therapist or to perform massages for a fee unless the person is licensed as a
massage therapist by the County Auditor.
(Ord. 4-1980, passed - -1980)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03  APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   The application for a license to operate a massage school, massage
parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort service, body painting studio
or nude modeling studio shall contain the following information and should be
individually signed by the applicant:
      (1)   Name of applicant and aliases;
      (2)   Resident address of applicant and former addresses for the past
three years;
      (3)   Business address of applicant;
      (4)   Number of massage tables, showers, stalls or other individual
units;
      (5)   The age, date of birth and citizenship of the applicant, in the
case of individuals, and of the manager and officers in the case of a
corporation;
      (6)   The names, addresses, ages, citizenship and designations of each
person connected with the applicant's establishment;
      (7)   Whether the applicant or its manager or officers have ever been
previously engaged in operating a massage school, massage parlor, massage
therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort service, body painting studio or nude
modeling studio;
      (8)   Whether any applicant, or in the case of a corporation, its
managers, officers, directors or stockholders, have ever been convicted of any
act of violence, moral turpitude, sex offense or prior violation of this
chapter;
      (9)   An agreement by the operator permitting inspection; and
      (10)   Type of license being applied for by the applicant.
   (B)   Along with the operator's application for a license, there shall be
filed a verified application by each individual who is employed in the
establishment who is required by this chapter to be licensed. The application
should contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and aliases;
      (2)   Age, date of birth;
      (3)   Address and former addresses for past three years;
      (4)   Citizenship;
      (5)   Whether convicted of any public offense concerning an act of
violence, moral turpitude, sex offense or prior violation of this chapter; and
      (6)   Nature of work performed.
   (C)   Along with the aforesaid applications for licenses, there shall be a
certificate from a duly licensed medical practitioner, certifying that the
applicant is free from communicable diseases and that the examination has been
made within 30 days prior to the application for the license or permit herein
sought.
(Ord. 4-1980, passed - -1980)
§ 114.04  LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee for each person who operates or is employed by a
massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort service, body
painting studio or nude modeling studio, or any combination thereof, shall be
determined in accordance with the following scale.
   (A)   Class A licenses shall be required for all private health clubs; the
fee for the license to be $50 annually.
   (B)   Class B licenses shall be required for all other owners of the above-
mentioned businesses; the fee for the license to be $250 annually.
   (C)   Class C licenses shall be required for persons employed as massage
therapists, escorts, body painting models and/or nude models for a nude
modeling studio; the fee for the license to be $25 annually for each person.
(Ord. 4-1980, passed - -1980)
§ 114.05  OPERATION.
   (A)   No massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse,
escort service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio shall be operated
or conducted, in or with a separate opening to, living quarters. There must be
a separate opening to living quarters and a separate entrance to the place of
business. No one should use the building quarters for a place of habitation.
   (B)   All licensed operators or permit holders under this chapter shall show
their licenses or permits in a visible location in their establishment.
   (C)   All licenses or permit holders shall be subject to all other city
ordinances, county ordinances and state statutes and to regulations of various
administrative bodies of the city, county and state. Violation of the
regulations, ordinances or statutes shall be grounds for revocation of licenses
or permits.
   (D)   No person shall be employed by any licensee under this chapter or be
within view of any of the services rendered by a massage parlor, massage
therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort service, body painting studio or nude
modeling studio who has not reached the age of 21.
   (E)   No person holding a license under this article shall administer to a
person of the opposite sex, any massage, alcohol rub or similar treatment,
fomentation, bath or electric or magnetic treatment, except upon the signed
order of a licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor, podiatrist or
registered physical therapist. A person shall neither cause nor permit in or
about his or her place of business, or in connection with his or her business,
any agent, employee, servant or other individual to administer any treatment to
any individual of the opposite sex.
   (F)   All employees of establishments licensed under this chapter, including
masseurs, masseuses, therapists, escorts and body painting models, but not
including nude models, shall wear clean, non-transparent outer garments
covering the sexual and genital areas.
   (G)   The sexual or genital areas of patrons of establishments required to
be licensed under this chapter must be covered with towels, clothes or
undergarments when in the presence of an employee, masseur, masseuse,
therapist, escort, body painting model or nude model.
   (H)   No person in any establishment licensed under this chapter shall place
his or her hand upon or touch with any part of his or her body or fondle in any
manner or massage a sexual or genital area of any other person.
   (I)   No employee of an establishment licensed under this chapter shall
perform, offer or agree to perform, any act which shall require the touching of
the patron's genitals.
   (J)   Every massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic,
bathhouse, escort service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio shall
be open for inspection during all business hours and at other reasonable times
by police officers, health and fire inspectors and duly authorized
representatives of the county upon the showing of proper credentials by the
persons.
   (K)   Any bathhouse, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, massage therapy
school, escort service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio, or any
combination thereof, is prohibited from installing or maintaining any lock or
similar device on the inside of any door of the business which cannot be
operated by key or knob from the exterior of the door.
   (L)   Any establishment licensed under this chapter as a private health club
shall maintain a current list of members, as the case may be, and a roster of
those receiving massage therapy by dates, which lists and rosters shall be
available to anyone inspecting the establishment pursuant to division (J)
above.
   (M)   No person holding a license under this chapter shall paint the body of
a person of the opposite sex. A person shall neither cause nor permit in or
about his or her place of business or in connection with his or her business,
any agent, employee, servant or other individual to administer any treatment to
any individual of the opposite sex.
(Ord. 4-1980, passed - -1980)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06  ISSUANCE OR REJECTION OF APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The controller, before issuing any license provided for herein, shall
investigate the character of the applicant, and the officers, directors and
managers of the business if it is a corporation. No license shall be issued if
he or she shall find:
      (1)   Any of the person named in the application or any employee thereof
are not persons of good moral character;
      (2)   Any of the persons have previously been connected with any massage
school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort service, body
painting studio or nude modeling studio where the license therefor has
heretofore been revoked, or where any of the provisions of the law applicable
to massage schools, massage parlors, massage therapy clinics, bathhouses,
escort services, body painting studios or nude modeling studios have been
violated; and/or
      (3)   The premises sought to be so licensed fail to comply in any manner
with the ordinances and laws applicable thereto.
   (B)   All applicants for licenses to engage in the practice of massage
therapy must submit a certificate of affidavit of their respective
qualifications as to schooling, training and experience, and where and how
obtained.
(Ord. 4-1980, passed - -1980)
§ 114.07  COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints of alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter shall
be made in writing to the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 4-1980, passed - -1980)
§ 114.08  LEGAL ACTION.
   (A)   Upon learning of violations of the provisions of this chapter and/or
related ordinances or 1aws, the County Commissioner shall conduct an
investigation. After a hearing thereon, if the County Commissioner should
determine that the license shall be revoked, no refund of license or permit fee
shall be due.
   (B)   After investigating any complaint under §
114.07, the County Commissioners shall refer the complaint to the Prosecuting
Attorney for the 12th Judicial Circuit Court if they believe legal action is
necessary.
   (C)   The Prosecuting Attorney may take whatever legal action is necessary
to enforce this chapter in the Civil and Criminal Courts of the county.
(Ord. 4-1980, passed - -1980)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   Operation of an establishment without a license as contemplated by this
chapter subjects the operator to a fine of $100 per day until all permits and
licenses are purchased as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 4-1980, passed - -1980)
CHAPTER 115:  FOOD MARKETS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Permits
   
115.03   Minimum sanitation requirements for food markets
   
115.04   Sale, examination and condemnation of unwholesome, adulterated or
misbranded food
   
115.05   Disease control
   
115.06   Inspection of food markets
   
115.07   Approval of plans
   
115.08   Effective date
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. Those rural and urban areas which are under the jurisdiction of the
County Health Officer.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who comes in contact with any utensil or equipment in
which food is prepared or stored, or who is employed in a room or place in
which food is prepared, processed, displayed or sold.
   FOOD. All articles used for food, drink, confectionery or condiment, whether
simple, mixed or compound and all substances or ingredients used in the
preparation thereof.
   FOOD MARKET. Retail grocery, meat market, poultry market, fish market, fresh
fruit and vegetable market (this does not include seasonal roadside
establishments which handle only fresh fruits and vegetables), delicatessen,
confectionery, candy kitchen, nut store, retail bakery store or any other
establishment where food, intended for human consumption is manufactured,
produced, stored, prepared, processed, handled, transported, sold or offered
for sale at retail.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer or his or her authorized
representative.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint-stock company, trust, estate or municipality or
his, her or its legal representative or agent.
   UTENSIL. All containers or any equipment of any kind or nature with which
food comes in contact after delivery to a food market, during storage,
preparation, processing, display or sale.
(Ord. 10-1983, passed 12-12-1983)
§ 115.02  PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food market in the
county, who does not possess a valid permit from the Health Officer. The permit
shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the food market. Only persons who
comply with the applicable requirements of this chapter shall be entitled to
receive and retain a permits. The permit for a food market shall be for a term
of one year beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year and
shall be renewed annually. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall
contain, the name and address of the person to whom the permit is granted, the
address of the premises for which the same is issued and pertinent data as may
be required by the Health Officer. The permit fee shall be $12 annually or $6
if issued after July 1 to a new permitee for the balance of a year.
   (B)   A separate permit shall be required for each food market operated or
to be operated by any person. A permit issued under this chapter is not
transferable.
   (C)   A permit shall be issued to any person on application after inspection
and approval by the Health Officer; provided that, the food market complies
with all the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No permit or renewal thereof shall be denied or revoked on arbitrary
or capricious grounds.
(Ord. 10-1983, passed 12-12-1983)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03  MINIMUM SANITATION REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD MARKETS.
   (A)   All food markets shall comply with the minimum sanitation requirements
specified by the State Board of Health as now provided in its Regulation HFD 19
or as the same may be hereafter changed or amended. The regulation and any
changes and amendments thereto which may be hereafter adopted or promulgated
are by reference incorporated herein and made part hereof, two copies of which
are on file in the office of the Clerk of the county for public inspection, or
in the office of the Health Officer.
   (B)   Equipment that was installed in a food service establishment prior to
the effective date of this chapter, and that does not fully meet all of the
design and fabrication requirements of this section, shall be deemed acceptable
in that establishment if it is in good repair, capable of being maintained in a
sanitary condition and the food contact surfaces are non-toxic. Replacement
equipment and new equipment acquired after the effective date of this chapter
shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-1983, passed 12-12-1983)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04  SALE, EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED OR
MISBRANDED FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell through a food market any
food which is unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded.
   (B)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Officer as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from contamination, adulteration
or misbranding. The Health Officer may, on written notice to the owner or
operator, impound and forbid the sale of any food which is unwholesome,
adulterated or misbranded; provided that, in the case of misbranding which can
be corrected by proper labeling, the food may be released to the operator for
correct labeling under the supervision of the Health Officer. The Health
Officer may also cause to be removed or destroyed any dairy product, meat
product, seafood, poultry product, confectionery, bakery product, vegetable,
fruit or other perishable articles which, in his or her opinion, are unsound,
or contain any filthy, decomposed or putrid substances or that may be poisonous
or deleterious to health or otherwise unsafe.
(Ord. 10-1983, passed 12-12-1983)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05  DISEASE CONTROL.
   (A)   Generally. No person who is affected with any disease in a
communicable form or is a carrier of a disease shall work in any food market,
and no food market shall employ any person. If the food market manager has
reason to believe that any employee has contracted any disease in a
communicable form or has become a carrier of the disease, he or she shall
notify the Health Officer immediately.
   (B)   Procedure when infection indicated. When the Health Officer has reason
to believe there exists a possibility of transmission of infection from any
food market employee, the Health Officer is authorized to acquire any or all of
the following measures:
      (1)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all food markets;
      (2)   The immediate closing of the food market concerned until no further
danger of disease outbreak exists in the opinion of the Health Officer; and/or
      (3)   Adequate medical examination of the employee and of his or her
associates with laboratory examinations as may be indicated.
(Ord. 10-1983, passed 12-12-1983)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06  INSPECTION OF FOOD MARKETS.
   (A)   Frequency of inspection. At least once each 12 months, the Health
Officer shall inspect each food market for which a permit is required under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Procedure when violations noted. If, during the inspection of any food
market, the Health Officer discovers the violation of any of the sanitation
requirements in §
115.03, he or she shall issue a written order listing the violations to the
proprietor or, in his or her absence, to the person in charge and fixing a time
within which the proprietor of the food market shall abate and remedy the
violations. A copy of the written order shall be filed with the records of the
Health Department.
   (C)   Authority to inspect and to copy records. The person operating the
food market shall, upon the request of the Health Officer, permit the Health
Officer or his or her authorized representative access to all parts of the food
market and shall permit the Health Officer or his or her authorized
representative to collect evidence and/or exhibits and to copy any or all
records relative to the enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   Final inspection; prosecution or hearing for violators. If, upon a
second and final inspection, the Health Officer finds that the food market,
person or employee is violating any of the provisions of this chapter which
were in violation of the previous inspection, and concerning which a written
order was issued, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of the violation to
the prosecutor having jurisdiction in the county in which the violation occurs,
and he or she shall prosecute all persona violating the provisions of this
chapter, or the Health Officer may promptly issue a written order to the
permitee of the food market to appear at a certain time, no later than ten days
from the date of final inspection, and at a place in the county fixed in the
order to show cause, why the permit issued under the provisions of §
115.02(A) should not be revoked.
   (E)   Revocation of permit. The Health Officer, upon the hearing, if the
permitee should fail to show cause, shall revoke the permit and promptly give
written notice of the action to the permitee. The Health Officer shall maintain
a permanent record of his or her proceedings filed in the office of the Health
Department.
   (F)   Suspension of permit. Any permit issued under this chapter may be
temporarily suspended by the Health Officer without written notice or hearing
for a period of not to exceed 30 days, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Unsanitary or other conditions which in the Health Officer's
opinion endangers the public's health;
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer or any of his or her
authorized representatives in the performance of their duties; provided,
however, that, upon written application from the permitee, served upon the
Health Officer within 15 days after the suspension, the Health Officer shall
conduct a hearing upon the matter after giving at least five-days' written
notice of the time, place and purpose thereof to the suspended permitee;
provided further that, any suspension order shall be issued by the Health
Officer in writing and served upon the permitee by leaving a copy at his or her
usual place of business or by delivery of registered or certified mail to the
address.
   (G)   Reinstatement of permit. Any person whose permit has been suspended
may, at any time, make application to the local Health Officer for the
reinstatement of his or her permit.
(Ord. 10-1983, passed 12-12-1983)
§ 115.07  APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   All food markets which are hereafter constructed or altered shall conform
with the applicable requirements set forth in §
115.03. Properly prepared plans and specifications shall be submitted to and
approved by the Health Officer as may be required before starting any work.
(Ord. 10-1983, passed 12-12-1983)
§ 115.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect 120 days after its adoption
and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 10-1983, passed 12-12-1983)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. A person who commits a Class B misdemeanor
(I.C. 35-50-3-3) shall be imprisoned for a fixed term of not more than 180
days; in addition, he or she may be fined not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 10-1983, passed 12-12-1983)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   DANGEROUS WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130:  DANGEROUS WEAPONS
Section
   
130.01   Dangerous weapons on government property
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  DANGEROUS WEAPONS ON GOVERNMENT PROPERTY.
   (A)   All persons, except those specifically set forth below, are prohibited
from carrying, concealed or otherwise, any inhibiting chemical substances,
explosive devices, guns, pellet guns, knives or any deadly weapons, as defined
by statute in I.C. 35-31.5-2-86, on any property upon which is situated any
building or structure owned or leased by county government. All law enforcement
officers and deputies, uniformed or in plainclothes, judges and special judges,
prosecutors, special prosecutors and deputies and probation and parole officers
are exempted from this section. All county courts may establish a local rule
consistent with this section. Any persons entering upon county-owned or leased
property upon which a building or structure is situated may be detained by a
law enforcement officer or court security official, thoroughly searched and any
deadly weapons found on or about the person shall be confiscated and forfeited
to the county.
   (B)   (1)   The county wishes to maintain a work environment that is free of
illegal drugs, alcohol, firearms, explosives, or other improper materials. To
this end, the county prohibits the control, possession, transfer, sale or use
of such materials on its premises. However, effective on 7-1-2010 I.C. 34-28-
7 allows employees who may lawfully possess a firearm to bring firearms and
ammunition onto county property as long as the firearm and ammunition are
locked in a glove box or trunk or stored out of plain sight in the employee's
personal locked vehicle. This exception does not apply to employees driving or
riding in county-owned vehicles where firearms and ammunition are prohibited.
      (2)   Employees of a penal facility ( County Jail) or other county
facilities listed in I.C. 34-28-7-2(b)(2) do not have these rights. Except for
law enforcement officers, employees working at the County Jail shall not bring
firearms or ammunition onto county property including in their personal
vehicles.
      (3)   The county prohibits the possession of firearms, ammunition, and
the possession of other weapons by persons other than county employees and the
law enforcement officers on county property. The county requires the
cooperation of all employees in administering this policy.
      (4)   Desks, lockers, and other storage devices may be provided for the
convenience of employees but remain the sole property of the county.
Accordingly, they, as well as any articles found within them, can be inspected
by any agent or representative of the county at any time, either with or
without prior notice.
      (5)   This is with exception to court and Sheriff Department evidence
rooms or sealed files maintained by the County Clerk or Court Reporters.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed - -1995; Ord. 2011-5, passed 6-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Definition of the term “deadly weapon”, see I.C. 35-31.5-2-86
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   Any person found in violation of a court rule consistent with §
130.01 may be punished for contempt of court and be subject to a fine of up to
$500 and imprisonment for up to 180 days.
(Ord. 2-1995, passed - -1995)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
         
151.   STORM WATER DRAINAGE
         
152.   ZONING
         
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CHAPTER 150:  SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Scope and purpose
   
150.02   Authority
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Exemptions
   
150.05   Variances
   
150.06   Conflicting ordinances and interpretation
Minor Subdivisions
   
150.20   Application
   
150.21   Public hearing
   
150.22   Approval
Major Subdivisions, Preliminary Plan
   
150.35   Application
   
150.36   Plat Committee review
   
150.37   Public hearing
   
150.38   Approval
Major Subdivisions, Final Plat
   
150.50   Application
   
150.51   Plat Committee review
   
150.52   Certificates and bonding of improvements
   
150.53   Public hearing
   
150.54   Approval
Principles and Standards of Design
   
150.65   General
   
150.66   Public streets
   
150.67   Private streets
   
150.68   Utilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This document is written as a county-wide subdivision control
ordinance for the county. All unincorporated communities and all incorporated
cities and towns included in the county are to be regulated by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   A subdivider desiring approval of a subdivision of any land
lying within the jurisdiction of the Commission shall submit a written
application therefore to the Commission.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by the information, drawings
and plans in accordance with the requirements set forth in this chapter and all
other local ordinances and applicable laws.
   (C)   No subdivision of land located within the jurisdiction of the
Commission shall be recorded or filed for transfer in public records until it
has been approved by the Commission, and the approval shall have been signed
and sealed by the executive director of the Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.02  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4,
the 700 Series.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   Any subdivision not classified as a "minor subdivision", including,
but not limited to, subdivisions or successive divisions of a parcel resulting
in more than three tracts over any period of time; or any size subdivision
requiring the extension or dedication of any new public street, sewer, water,
storm drainage or other public owned or operated utilities, facilities, land or
improvements; or any subdivision in commercial or industrial zoned districts.
      (2)   A MAJOR SUBDIVISION must comply with the requirements and standards
outlined in this chapter and all other local ordinances and applicable laws.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   Any subdivision of a parcel into three tracts or less, not
requiring the extension or dedication of any new public street, sewer, water,
storm drainage or other public owned or operated utilities, facilities, land or
improvements. Any subdivision or successive divisions of a parcel resulting in
more than three tracts over any period of time shall be considered a "major
subdivision".
      (2)   A MINOR SUBDIVISION must comply with the requirements and standards
outlined in this chapter and all other local ordinances and applicable laws.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots,
parcels, tracts, sites, units, plats or interests for the purpose of offer,
sale, lease, transfer or development; either on an installment plan or upon any
and all other plans, terms and conditions, including re-subdivision.
SUBDIVISION includes the division of land in any zoning district, whether by
deed, metes and bounds description, devise, intestate, lease, map, plat, survey
or other recorded instrument.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.04  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following kinds of divisions of existing parcels of land are herein
called “exempt divisions”. Providing that they do not require the extension or
dedication of any new public street, sewer, water, storm drainage or other
public owned or operated utilities, facilities, land or improvements, these
divisions are exempt from the provisions of this chapter; but must comply with
the requirements and standards outlined in all other local ordinances and
applicable laws. Exempt divisions must be one of the following types of
divisions:
   (A)   Divisions of parcels of land resulting in all tracts being three acres
in size or larger;
   (B)   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts to correct
errors in an existing legal description; provided that, no additional building
sites other than for accessory buildings are created by the division;
   (C)   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts between
adjoining lots; provided that, no additional principal use building sites are
created by the division. The lots so created hereunder shall have only one
principal use building site each; and
   (D)   A division of land for federal, state or local government to acquire
road right-of-way.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.05  VARIANCES.
   The Commission may authorize a variance where the subdivider can show that
provisions of this chapter would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered
to, and where, in the opinion of the Commission, because of topographical or
other conditions peculiar to the site, a departure may be made without
destroying the intent of the provision. Any variance thus authorized is
required to be entered in writing in the minutes of the Commission and the
reasoning on which the departure was justified shall be set forth.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.06  CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Conflict with other local regulations.
      (1)   All provisions of this chapter are intended to be carried out in
conjunction with
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances. To that end, all requirements,
standards, definitions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances are hereby referenced and made a part of
this chapter.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional
requirements to minimum standards required by other local ordinances.
      (3)   If the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with one
another, or if they conflict with provisions found in other local ordinances or
regulations, the more restrictive provision will control.
   (B)   Conflict with state or federal regulations. If the provisions of this
chapter are inconsistent with regulations of the state or federal government,
the more restrictive provision shall control, to the extent permitted by law.
   (C)   Conflict with private easements, agreements or covenants. This chapter
is not intended to abrogate, annul or otherwise interfere with any private
easement, agreement, covenant, restriction or other legal private relationship.
The Planning Department is responsible for enforcing this chapter; it does not
enforce private agreements, easements, covenants or restrictions.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 150.20  APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a minor subdivision must be filed with the staff at
least ten working days before the desired date of the public hearing. The
application shall be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount
consistent with the current fee schedule.
   (B)   Written application on a form approved by the staff must be filed by
the current owner of record of the land being subdivided, along with the
following maps and information:
      (1)   A sketch or copy of a map showing the general location of the tract
(s) subdivided;
      (2)   A complete boundary survey of the tract(s) subdivided in accordance
with the minimum standards for competent practice of land surveying, as
outlined in 865 I.A.C. 1-12;
      (3)   An acreage breakdown of all contributing tracts and tax parcels
into all new streets, tracts or lots, including tax parcel numbers;
      (4)   Any driveways and public or private streets on and adjoining the
site of the proposed subdivision, including the names and right-of-way widths;
      (5)   Locations, widths and purposes of all easements serving the
subdivision;
      (6)   Setback lines and dimensions;
      (7)   Certification from the KCHD indicating that the desired lot size is
adequate for any on-site sewage disposal system that may serve each proposed
tract(s) which does not have an existing on-site sewage disposal system, or
approval from the appropriate operating authority that each proposed tract(s)
which does not have an existing on-site sewage disposal system will be allowed
to connect to an existing sanitary sewer system;
      (8)   Certification from the KCHD indicating whether any existing septic
system was permitted by the KCHD and certifying that the details of any permit
issued are adequate for any proposed modifications;
      (9)   Certification from a contractor licensed by the KCHD that any
existing septic system is located completely on the proposed tract or, in the
alternative, a sketch submitted as part of the process to obtain an existing
permit which clearly demonstrates the existing system is located entirely on
the proposed tract;
      (10)   Existing zoning district classifications and boundaries of
incorporated cities or towns;
      (11)   Other features which may or may not affect the subdivision
favorably or adversely;
      (12)   Names and addresses of the current owner of record(s) and
subdivider(s); and
      (13)   Name, date, seal and signature of registered land surveyor.
   (C)   The minimum sheet size of all maps and plats submitted in conjunction
with the above shall be eight and one-half inches by 11 inches; and the maximum
sheet size shall be as specified by the County Recorder’s Office.
   (D)   The staff and the Commission shall obtain assistance as needed from
the appropriate operating authorities or other departments of city or town
units of government in making considerations and determinations of the above-
mentioned criteria.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.21  PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   After an application for approval of a minor subdivision with all maps
and information has been filed by the specified deadline, the Commission shall
conduct a public hearing on the application at their next regularly scheduled
meeting. Notice shall be given to interested parties and the hearing conducted
in accordance with the Commission's rules of procedure.
   (B)   At the hearing for a minor subdivision, the Commission shall review
all information filed with the application and provided at the time of the
hearing, and shall hear any testimony from the applicant and interested
parties. Any operating authorities or other departments of city or town units
of government shall have the opportunity to make comments and stipulations
concerning the proposed subdivision, which shall be given paramount
consideration by the Commission in formulating its decision.
   (C)   In considering information presented at the hearing, the Commission,
at its discretion, may elect to continue the matter until its next regularly
scheduled public meeting, or may schedule a visit to the site of the proposed
subdivision.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.22  APPROVAL.
   Upon concluding the hearing of a minor subdivision, the Commission shall
state its findings in the matter, and determine the approval, disapproval or
conditional approval of the application. The Commission will inform the
applicant of its decision and any modifications or conditions upon which
approval is contingent. The findings and decision of the Commission will be
entered in the official minutes of the meeting. The executive director of the
Area Plan Commission will provide the applicant with a written notice of
approval or conditional approval within five working days following the public
hearing. The applicant shall file the written notice of approval or conditional
approval with the County Auditor and record it with the County Recorder.
Approval by the Commission is subject to review by certiorari.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS, PRELIMINARY PLAN
§ 150.35  APPLICATION.
   (A)   The current owner of record or subdivider shall file an application
for preliminary plan approval of a major subdivision with the staff at least 30
calendar days before the desired date of the public hearing. The application
shall be accompanied by a certified check or money order in the amount
consistent with the current fee schedule.
   (B)   Written application on a form approved by the staff must be filed
along with two copies of all maps and data showing the following information,
plus one copy for each operating authority within the proposed subdivision:
      (1)   Location map showing:
         (a)   Subdivision name and location;
         (b)   Any thoroughfares related to the subdivision;
         (c)   Existing schools, parks and playgrounds serving the area
proposed to be subdivided, and other community facilities; and
         (d)   Title, scale and north arrow.
      (2)   Names and addresses of the current owner(s) of record and
subdivider(s); and the consultant, engineer or surveyor who prepared the
preliminary plan;
      (3)   All driveways, streets, alleys and rights-of-way on and adjoining
the site of the proposed subdivision; showing the names and including right-of-
way widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of pavement, curbs,
sidewalks, crosswalks, tree planting, and any limitations on the public or
private use;
      (4)   Accurate locations and dimensions of easements for utilities and
other purposes, and any limitations on the semi-public or community use;
      (5)   Main streams, ditches and/or any other potentially affected
waterway;
      (6)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community use, with accurate
dimensions;
      (7)   Contours at vertical intervals shall be one foot when slopes are
less than 4% and shall be two feet when the slope exceeds 4%;
      (8)   Layout of lots with accurate lot numbers;
      (9)   The location and accurate dimensions of all tract boundaries, lot
lines, corners and monuments with references to appropriate land system
boundaries or corners (i.e., donation, survey, section, township, range and the
like);
      (10)   Accurate legal description of the subdivision boundary;
      (11)   All boundary survey information shall comply with the minimum
standards for competent practice of land surveying as outlined in 865 I.A.C. 1-
12;
      (12)   A reference to a previously recorded survey of the tract(s)
containing the subdivision as required under 865 I.A.C. 1-12;
      (13)   An approved drainage plan according to the appropriate city or
county drainage ordinance;
      (14)   Plans and specifications for any improvements to be installed as
required under this chapter; with type, location and approximate size or
capacity clearly indicated;
      (15)   Setback lines and dimensions;
      (16)   Certification from the KCHD indicating that the desired lot size
is adequate for any on-site sewage disposal system that may serve each proposed
tract(s) which does not have an existing on-site sewage disposal system, or
approval from the appropriate operating authority that each proposed tract(s)
which does not have an existing on-site sewage disposal system will be allowed
to connect to an existing sanitary sewer system;
      (17)   Certification from the KCHD indicating whether any existing septic
system was permitted by the KCHD and certifying that the details of any permit
issued are adequate for any proposed modifications;
      (18)   Certification from a contractor licensed by the KCHD that any
existing septic system is located completely on the proposed tract or, in the
alternative, a sketch submitted as part of the process to obtain an existing
permit which clearly demonstrates the existing system is located entirely on
the proposed tract;
      (19)   Existing zoning district classifications and boundaries of
incorporated cities or towns;
      (20)   Other features which may or may not affect the subdivision
favorably or adversely;
      (21)   Name, date and signature of current owner(s) of record and
subdivider(s);
      (22)   Name, date, seal and signature of registered land surveyor (and
engineer if applicable);
      (23)   Scale, north arrow and date; and
      (24)   A description of the protective covenants or private restrictions
to be incorporated in the plat of the subdivision.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.36  PLAT COMMITTEE REVIEW.
   (A)   After an application for approval of a preliminary plan of a major
subdivision, with all required maps and data, has been filed by the specified
deadline, the Plat Committee shall review the preliminary plan and give its
acceptance, or return the preliminary plan to the applicant with a written
statement of any conditions or recommendations for changes at least 15 calendar
days prior to the public hearing. The applicant and pertinent operating
authorities of any improvements within the proposed subdivision will be invited
to attend the review meeting. The operating authorities shall have the
opportunity to make comments and stipulations concerning the proposed
improvements, which shall be given paramount consideration by the Plat
Committee in formulating its recommendations.
   (B)   At least ten working days prior to the public hearing, the applicant
shall file with the staff 12 copies of all maps and data, including any changes
recommended by the Plat Committee.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.37  PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   After acceptance by the Plat Committee and all maps and data have been
filed by the specified deadline, the Commission shall conduct a public hearing
on the application at its next regularly scheduled meeting. Notice shall be
given to interested parties and the hearing conducted in accordance with the
Commission's rules of procedure.
   (B)   At the hearing for a preliminary plan of a major subdivision, the
Commission shall review all information filed with the application and provided
at the time of the hearing, shall hear any testimony from the applicant and any
operating authorities or other interested parties, and shall hear a report from
the Plat Committee on its findings and recommendations. In considering
information presented at the hearing, the Commission, at its discretion, may
elect to continue the matter until its next regularly scheduled public meeting,
or may schedule a visit to the site of the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.38  APPROVAL.
   (A)   Approval of the design for any proposed public improvements to be
dedicated must be obtained from the appropriate operating authority prior to
approval of a preliminary plan. Before the Commission approves a preliminary
plan showing park reservation(s) or land dedicated to any local governmental
unit, the Commission shall obtain approval of the reservation or dedication of
the land from the participating jurisdiction.
   (B)   Upon concluding the hearing of a preliminary plan of a major
subdivision, the Commission shall state its findings in the matter, and
determine the approval, disapproval or conditional approval of the application.
The Commission will inform the applicant of its decision and any modifications
or conditions upon which approval is contingent. The findings and decision of
the Commission will be entered in the official minutes of the meeting. The
executive director of the Area Plan Commission will return one copy of the
preliminary plan to the applicant along with written notice of approval,
conditional approval or disapproval and the reasons therefore within five
working days following the public hearing. Approval by the Commission is
subject to review by certiorari.
   (C)   Unless extended, the approval of a preliminary plan shall be effective
for a period of three years after the date of approval, at the end of which
time final plat approval of the subdivision must have been obtained and
certified by the Commission. Any plans not receiving final plat approval within
the period of time set forth herein shall be null and void; and the developer
shall be required to re-submit a new application for preliminary plan approval,
and will be subject to all zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations in
effect at the time of re-submission. Upon request of the applicant, the
Commission may extend the preliminary plan approval in increments of two years
beyond the expiration date without further notice or public hearing.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS, FINAL PLAT
§ 150.50  APPLICATION.
   (A)   The current owner of record or subdivider shall file an application
for final plat approval of a major subdivision with the staff at least 30
calendar days before the desired date of the public hearing. The application
shall be accompanied by a certified check or money order in the amount
consistent with the current fee schedule. Written application on a form
approved by the staff must be filed along with one Mylar original and 12 copies
of the final plat. As per state statutes, the final plat may include all or
only part of the approved preliminary plan.
   (B)   The original final plat shall be drawn at a commonly used scale on
Mylar film with a sheet size of 18 inches by 22 inches. The following basic
information shall be shown on the final plat:
      (1)   Location map showing:
         (a)   Subdivision name and location;
         (b)   Any thoroughfares related to the subdivision;
         (c)   Existing schools, parks and playgrounds serving the area to be
subdivided, and other community facilities; and
         (d)   Title, scale and north arrow.
      (2)   Names and addresses of the current owner(s) of record and
subdivider(s); and the consultant or surveyor who prepared the final plat;
      (3)   All streets, alleys and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of
the proposed subdivision; showing the names and including right-of-way widths,
and any limitations on the public or private use;
      (4)   Accurate locations and dimensions of easements for utilities and
other purposes, and any limitations on the semi-public or community use;
      (5)   Main streams, ditches and/or any other potentially affected
waterway;
      (6)   Parcels of land to be dedicated or reserved for schools, parks,
playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community use, with accurate
dimensions;
      (7)   Layout of lots with accurate lot numbers;
      (8)   The location and accurate dimensions of all tract boundaries, lot
lines, corners and monuments with references to appropriate land system
boundaries or corners (i.e., donation, survey, section, township, range and the
like);
      (9)   Accurate legal description of the subdivision boundary;
      (10)   All boundary survey information shall comply with the minimum
standards for competent practice of land surveying as outlined in 865 I.A.C. 1-
12;
      (11)   A reference to a previously recorded survey of the tract(s)
containing the subdivision as required under 865 I.A.C. 1-12;
      (12)   An acreage breakdown of all contributing tracts and tax parcels
into all new streets, tracts or lots, including tax parcel numbers;
      (13)   Substantiating curve data for all curves included in the boundary
layout;
      (14)   Location, type of material and size of all monuments and lot
markers;
      (15)   Setback lines and dimensions;
      (16)   Legend and notes;
      (17)   Scale, north arrow and date;
      (18)   Source of title of the owner to the land as shown by the last
entry in county records;
      (19)   The protective covenants or private restrictions to be
incorporated in the plat of the subdivision or a reference to their recordation
in other public records;
      (20)   Certification of dedication of streets and other public property
or reservations for private use;
      (21)   Name, date and signature of current owner(s) of record and
subdivider(s);
      (22)   Name, date, seal and signature of registered land surveyor;
      (23)   Certificate for approval by the Area Plan Commission; and
      (24)   Certificate for approval by the applicable government entity.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.51  PLAT COMMITTEE REVIEW.
   (A)   The final plat and any dedicated public improvement installations
shall conform to the approved preliminary plan reflecting all terms, conditions
and commitments given by the subdivider or required by the Commission. If the
final plat or dedicated improvements contain any changes or alterations from
the approved preliminary plan, the subdivider shall formally request a review
of the changes by the Plat Committee prior to application for final plat
approval.
   (B)   The subdivider shall provide the staff with a written statement of any
changes or revisions along with separate as-built drawings clearly depicting
any deviations or alterations of installed improvements from the approved
preliminary plan.
   (C)   (1)   Within 15 calendar days, the Plat Committee shall review the
changes and determine whether to accept the changes for final plat approval, or
require the subdivision to be re-submitted for a revised preliminary plan
approval.
      (2)   The applicant and pertinent operating authorities of any
improvements within the proposed subdivision will be invited to attend the
review meeting.
      (3)   The operating authorities shall have the opportunity to make
comments and stipulations concerning the proposed or installed improvements,
which shall be given paramount consideration by the Plat Committee in
formulating its recommendations.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.52  CERTIFICATES AND BONDING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   If any improvements and installations required of a subdivider are
incomplete at the time of the public hearing for final plat approval, the
applicant shall provide a performance bond which shall:
      (1)   Run to the applicable government entity having legal jurisdiction
for said improvements and installations;
      (2)   Be in an amount equal to 100% of the estimated construction cost or
an amount determined by the Commission to be sufficient to complete the
improvements and installations in compliance with the principles and standards
of design outlined in this chapter and the satisfactory plans and
specifications thereof. The amount should include all ingredients in the
subdivision;
      (3)   Be with surety satisfactory to the Commission; and
      (4)   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
   (B)   Upon the completion of any dedicated public improvements and
installations, and prior to the acceptance thereof for public maintenance by
the applicable government entity, the applicant shall:
      (1)   Provide a three-year maintenance bond which shall:
         (a)   Run to the applicable government entity having a legal
responsibility for the maintenance of the public improvements and
installations;
         (b)   Be in an amount equal to 20% of the cost of the public
improvements and installations or an amount determined by the Commission;
         (c)   Be with surety satisfactory to the Commission;
         (d)   Warrant the workmanship and all materials used in the
construction, installation and completion of the public improvements and
installations to be of good quality, and have been constructed and completed in
a workmanlike manner in compliance with the principles and standards of design
outlined in this chapter and the satisfactory plans and specifications thereof;
and
         (e)   Provide that, for a period of three years after the public
improvements and installations have been accepted for public maintenance by any
governmental unit or agency thereof, the subdivider will, at his or her own
expense, make all repairs to said improvements and installations, or the
foundations thereof, which may become necessary by reason of improper
workmanship or materials; however, the repairs are not to include any damage to
the improvements and installations resulting from forces or circumstances
beyond the control of the subdivider; and
      (2)   Provide one of the following:
         (a)   Written certification that all dedicated public improvements
were installed in conformance with the principles and standards of design
outlined in this chapter, and in conformance with the approved preliminary plan
on file with the Area Plan Commission; or
         (b)   Two copies, plus one copy for each operating authority within
the proposed subdivision, of separate as-built drawings depicting any
deviations or alterations of installed improvements from the approved
preliminary plan, which shall include a written certification that all
dedicated public improvements were installed in conformance with the principles
and standards of design outlined in this chapter and were approved by the Area
Plan Commission and the appropriate operating authorities.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.53  PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   After an application for approval of a final plat of a major
subdivision with all maps and data has been filed by the specified deadline,
the Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the application at their next
regularly scheduled meeting. Notice shall be given to interested parties and
the hearing conducted in accordance with the Commission's rules of procedure.
   (B)   At the hearing for a final plat of a major subdivision, the Commission
shall review all information filed with the application and provided at the
time of the hearing, and shall hear any testimony from the applicant and any
operating authorities or other interested parties, and shall hear a report (if
applicable) from the Plat Committee on its findings and recommendations. The
Commission shall also verify the amount of any bonds covering the improvements
and installations of the subdivision. In considering information presented at
the hearing, the Commission, at its discretion, may elect to continue the
matter until its next regularly scheduled public meeting, or may schedule a
visit to the site of the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.54  APPROVAL.
   (A)   Approval of any installed public improvements to be dedicated must be
obtained from the appropriate operating authority prior to approval of a final
plat. Before the Commission approves a final plat showing park reservation(s)
or land dedicated to any local governmental unit, the Commission shall obtain
approval of the reservation or dedication of the land from the participating
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Upon concluding the hearing of a final plat of a major subdivision,
the Commission shall state its findings in the matter, and determine the
approval, disapproval or conditional approval of the application. The
Commission will inform the applicant of its decision and any modifications or
conditions upon which approval is contingent. The findings and decision of the
Commission will be entered in the official minutes of the meeting. If the
Commission approves, it shall affix the Commission’s seal upon the original
final plat, together with the certifying signature of its President and
executive director. Under conditional approval, the Commission’s certification
shall be affixed at its next regular meeting after all modifications or
conditions upon which approval is contingent have been satisfied. Upon
certification by the Commission and by the applicable government entity, the
applicant shall file the final plat with the County Auditor and record it with
the County Recorder. If the Commission disapproves, it shall set forth the
reasons for the disapproval in its own records and the executive director of
the Area Plan Commission will provide the applicant with a copy within five
working days following the public hearing.
   (C)   As per I.C. 36-7-4-708(d), final plat approval of a subdivision cannot
occur until a minimum of 30 calendar days has elapsed since the granting of
preliminary plan approval. Approval by the Commission is subject to review by
certiorari.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 150.65  GENERAL.
   All subdivision plans, and any improvements and installations not part of a
subdivision plan that are to be dedicated for public use, shall conform to the
principles and standards which are exhibited in the county's comprehensive plan
and zoning ordinance, and shall also conform to the following principles and
standards of design.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.66  PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall be provided with at least one access point from
an existing public right-of-way to tracts within the subdivision as required
for adequate traffic flow and safety.
   (B)   In major subdivisions, all private driveways shall extend only from a
local street to the individual lots within the subdivision.
   (C)   In minor subdivisions, private driveway entrances directly from
existing arterial or collector streets may be allowed if approved by the
Commission.
   (D)   Street or driveway entrances directly from an existing right-of-way to
individual lots shall be prohibited where the entrances would present a traffic
hazard.
   (E)   No public street or alley shall be permitted where the only access
point is from a private street or alley.
   (F)   No private street or alley shall be dedicated or accepted as a public
street or alley unless it meets the requirements of this section.
   (G)   Public streets and alleys shall be completed to grades shown on plans,
profiles and cross-sections provided by the subdivider, and prepared by a
licensed surveyor and/or registered engineer, and approved with the preliminary
plan by the Commission.
   (H)   Minimum right-of-way widths. All dedicated right-of-way width shall
conform to the following minimum dimensions:
 
Exhibit 1:
Minimum Dedicated Right-of-Way Width
Alleys                     12 feet
Collector streets          70 feet
Cul-de-sac radius          50 feet
Local streets              50 feet
Minor arterial streets     80 feet
Principal arterial streets 100 feet
 
   (I)   The minimum allowable widths of pavement, parking lanes, shoulders,
ditches, grass strips and other buffers along streets shall be according to the
values depicted on Exhibits 2 and 3.
   (J)   The pavement crown for all streets shall be computed at a rate of one-
fourth inch per foot from the edge of pavement to the road crown.
   (K)   The maximum allowable slopes of parking lanes, shoulders, ditches,
grass strips and other buffers along streets shall be according to the values
depicted on Exhibits 2 and 3.
   (L)   The pavement of a turning circle at the end of a cul-de-sac street
shall have a minimum outside diameter of 80 feet. On-street parking shall be
prohibited within the turning circle and clearly posted with signs or curb
painting.
   (M)   The maximum length of a cul-de-sac or dead end street shall be 2,000
feet as measured from the origin at the intersection with the nearest through
street along the street center line and through the center of the circular
turnaround to the end of the right-of-way.
   (N)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,250 feet in length.
   (O)   The minimum vertical grade for all streets shall not be less than
0.50%.
   (P)   The maximum vertical grade shall not exceed 6% for arterial streets
and collector streets, and shall not exceed 8% for local streets. The maximum
grade for cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 3% within the turning area.
   (Q)   Clear visibility measured along the center line of the street on a
plane four feet above the street grade shall be provided for at least 500 feet
on all arterial streets, 300 feet on collector streets and at least 150 feet on
all local streets.
   (R)   To ensure adequate sight distances when the street center line
deflects more than ten degrees, connections shall be made by horizontal curves.
The minimum center line radius shall be 200 feet for local streets, 300 feet
for collector streets and 500 feet for
arterial streets.
   (S)   A tangent of at least 50 feet shall be introduced between reverse
curves on local streets. AASHTO standards shall be applied to reverse curves on
arterial and collector streets.
   (T)   Intersections.
      (1)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be
prohibited.
      (2)   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than 150 feet shall
not be permitted.
      (3)   All streets shall intersect at 90 degrees whenever possible.
However, in no instance shall streets intersect at less than 80 degrees onto
arterial or collector streets, or less than 50 degrees onto local streets.
      (4)   No curves or bends shall occur within a distance of 100 feet of any
intersection.
   (U)   Street construction.
      (1)   Streets shall be constructed as shown on the plans, profiles and/or
cross sections prepared by the subdivider and as approved by the Commission and
the appropriate street or highway department.
      (2)   Prior to placing the street surface, adequate subsurface drainage
for the street shall be provided by the subdivider.
      (3)   After all earth work is substantially completed and all drains
installed, the compacted subgrade shall be brought to the lines and grades
shown on the plans.
      (4)   In fill areas, all subgrade fill material shall be placed in no
greater than ten-inch loose layers and then compacted to at least 95% maximum
standard proctor dry density as determined by the provisions of AASHTO T99,
Compaction and Density of Soils. The compaction tests shall be conducted every
two lifts of fill installed and at a horizontal spacing of not more than 500
feet apart. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to have compaction
tests performed by a qualified person with written results furnished to the
appropriate street or highway department.
      (5)   Unless otherwise provided, the upper six inches of all subgrades
shall be uniformly compacted to at least 95% maximum standard proctor dry
density as determined by the provisions of AASHTO T99, Compaction and Density
of Soils. The compaction tests shall be conducted at a horizontal spacing of
not more than 500 feet apart. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider
to have compaction tests performed by a qualified person with written results
furnished to the appropriate street or highway department.
      (6)   Subgrade compaction test requirements may be waived in lieu of
proof roll testing if approved and accepted by the appropriate street or
highway department.
      (7)   The subgrade shall be prepared sufficiently in advance of pavement
construction to permit the appropriate street or highway department to inspect
the compaction and final elevation prior to approving the subgrade for pavement
construction. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to coordinate
with the appropriate street or highway department.
      (8)   All utility and drainage excavation under the area of the proposed
pavement shall be backfilled with compacted “b-borrow” or No. 12 stone to
subgrade level.
      (9)   Immediately prior to placement of concrete pavement, the subgrade
shall be properly dampened where it has become dry, where the surface has been
removed by final grading, or if for any reason it has not been properly
dampened.
   (V)   Pavement.
      (1)   Minimum widths: see Exhibits 2 and 3;
      (2)   Minimum thickness: see Exhibits 4 and 5;
      (3)   When an alley or street of lesser classification intersects a
street of greater classification, the pavement thickness of the intersection
shall comply with the standards of the greater classification;
      (4)   Portland cement concrete pavement: All streets and alleys shall
comply with the specifications set forth in the Indiana Department of
Transportation Standard Specifications, latest edition, § 500 and/or applicable
sections; and
      (5)   Bituminous pavement (hot asphaltic concrete). All streets and
alleys shall comply with the specifications set forth in the Indiana Department
of Transportation Standard Specifications, latest edition, § 400 and/or
applicable sections.
   (W)   Curb and gutter. In all major subdivisions within city corporate
limits; or wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with curb and gutter; or whenever the
proposed subdivision will average more than two lots per gross acre included in
the subdivision; the Commission shall require curb and gutter to be installed
on each side of the street surface, conforming to the following requirements:
      (1)   The quality of the material and the design of the concrete curbs
and gutters shall conform to that of a portland cement concrete pavement.
      (2)   Joint construction shall conform to that of a portland cement
concrete pavement.
      (3)   Curing of curb and gutter shall conform to that of portland cement
concrete pavement.
      (4)   At street and alley intersections, curbs shall be rounded by an arc
using a minimum radius of 25 feet for arterial and collector streets, 20 feet
for local streets, and ten feet for alleys. When an alley or street of lesser
classification intersects a street of greater classification, the curb radius
shall comply with the standards of the greater classification.
      (5)   Inlets shall be placed at the corners of street intersections.
Valley gutters across street pavement at intersections shall not be allowed.
      (6)   Curb ramps shall be installed at all sidewalk-curb intersections in
accordance with specifications in the Americans with Disabilities Act’s
standards for accessibility design.
      (7)   The minimum allowable depth, width and radius of curb and gutter
dimensions shall be according to the values depicted on Exhibit 6.
   (X)   Sidewalks. In all major subdivisions within city corporate limits; or
wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other subdivisions
which have been provided with sidewalks; or whenever the proposed subdivision
will average more than two lots per gross acre included in the subdivision; the
Commission shall require sidewalks to be installed, conforming to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be provided on each side of the street within the
street right-of-way no closer than one foot to the right-of-way lines.
      (2)   Proper grade shall be provided by the subdivider according to the
plans, profiles and cross sections approved by the Commission.
      (3)   The quality of the material and design of the sidewalks shall
conform to that of a portland cement concrete pavement.
      (4)   Sidewalks constructed within the street right-of-way shall have a
minimum width of five feet and a minimum depth of four inches; except when the
sidewalk is designed into a section of a driveway entrance, in which case the
minimum depth of concrete shall be six inches.
      (5)   Curb ramps shall be installed at all sidewalk-curb intersections in
accordance with specifications in the Americans with Disabilities Act’s
standards for accessibility design.
      (6)   Transverse joints shall be made at intervals of five feet and only
with a proper joint cutting tool or metal division plates. One-half-inch
transverse expansion joints shall be placed not more than 40 feet apart and
one-half-inch expansion joints shall be placed along intersecting sidewalks,
yard walks, curb walks and street curbing.
      (7)   Curing of sidewalks shall conform to that of a portland cement
concrete pavement.
      (8)   Forms shall be of wood, metal or other approved material and shall
extend for the full depth of the concrete. Forms shall be straight, free from
warp and of sufficient strength to resist pressure of the concrete without
springing. Bracing and staking of forms shall be such that the forms remain in
both horizontal and vertical alignment until their removal.
      (9)   Cold weather limitations for sidewalks shall conform to that of
portland cement concrete pavement.
      (10)   The surface shall be finished with a wooden float with broom
finish. No plastering of the surface shall be permitted.
   (Y)   Street lights.
      (1)   Each major subdivision shall contain a street lighting system that
provides the subdivision with adequate lighting levels.
      (2)   The developer shall discuss the plan with the appropriate operating
authority to assure proper placing and design of the lighting system.
      (3)   For lighting systems to be dedicated as public improvements, the
developer shall also discuss the plan with the appropriate street or highway
department to assure proper placing and design of the lighting system.
      (4)   At a minimum, all major subdivisions shall have street lights
installed at all street intersections unless waived by the Commission.
      (5)   In R-2 housing districts, or as determined by the Commission,
street lights shall be installed at all intersections and at appropriate
intervals along the streets.
      (6)   For lighting systems not dedicated as public improvements, a
maintenance program shall be provided that will include the automatic payment
of fees for the operation and maintenance of the lighting system.
EXHIBIT 2: TYPICAL CROSS SECTIONS STREETS WITH OPEN DITCH STORM DRAINAGE AND NO
CURBS SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE, KNOX COUNTY, INDIANA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-969.jpg]
 
EXHIBIT 3: TYPICAL CROSS SECTIONS STREETS WITH CURBS AND UNDERGROUND STORM
DRAINAGE SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE, KNOX COUNTY, INDIANA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-971.jpg]
 
EXHIBIT 4: BITUMINOUS PAVEMENT THICKNESS SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE, KNOX
COUNTY, INDIANA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-973.jpg]
 
EXHIBIT 5: CONCRETE PAVEMENT THICKNESS SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE, KNOX
COUNTY, INDIANA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-975.jpg]
 
EXHIBIT 6: TYPICAL CROSS SECTIONS CURB AND GUTTER DETAILS SUBDIVISION CONTROL
ORDINANCE, KNOX COUNTY, INDIANA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-977.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006)
§ 150.67  PRIVATE STREETS.
   (A)   No minor subdivision shall include more than one private street access
point from an existing public right-of-way to tracts within the subdivision.
   (B)   No major subdivision shall include more than two private street access
points from an existing public right-of-way to tracts within the subdivision.
   (C)   In major subdivisions, all private driveways entrances shall access
only from a local street to the individual lots within the subdivision.
   (D)   In minor subdivisions, private driveway entrances accessing directly
from existing arterial or collector streets may be allowed if approved by the
Commission.
   (E)   Street or driveway entrances accessing from an existing right-of-way
to individual lots shall be prohibited where the entrances would present a
traffic hazard.
   (F)   Private street rights-of-way and pavements may be permitted by the
Commission in any zoning district; provided, all other provisions of this
chapter are met and the following requirements are met:
      (1)   At every entrance of a private street accessing an existing public
street, the owner or private organization shall maintain a sign post carrying a
sign having an area of at least 15 inches by 21 inches, on which is printed and
clearly legible in at least two-inch letters the name of the private street and
the words "private street", and in at least one-inch letters, the words "not
dedicated for public use or maintained by the public".
      (2)   Private streets shall be maintained by the owners, or by a legally
constituted private organization, so that fire, police, health, school or
sanitation vehicles and public utility vehicles have adequate access.
      (3)   Covenants shall be included in the plat and/or deeds to the
individual tracts of the subdivision clearly stating that the streets are
privately owned and maintained and are not dedicated or maintained by the
public.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 150.68  UTILITIES.
   (A)   General. All utilities in residential subdivisions including electric,
telephone, gas, water and cable television shall be installed underground.
   (B)   Easements.
      (1)   Where utilities are not located within publicly dedicated street or
alley rights-of-way, easements for utilities shall be provided.
      (2)   The easements shall have a minimum width of 20 feet or as regulated
by the appropriate operating authority.
      (3)   Where located along lot lines, one-half of the easement width shall
be taken from each lot unless extenuating circumstances are presented to and
approved by the Commission.
      (4)   In cases where the lots are abutting along the exterior boundary of
the subdivision and not adjoining another subdivision, the full width of the
easement shall be provided on the exterior lots.
      (5)   Before determining the location of easements, the developer shall
discuss the plan with the appropriate operating authorities to assure proper
placing and design for the installation of the services.
   (C)   Sanitary sewers.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete
sanitary sewer system which shall connect with an existing approved sanitary
sewer outlet when the outlet is within 300 feet.
      (2)   When the approved outlet is not available, a system to convey the
sewage to a treatment plant or an appropriate sanitary sewer outlet shall be
installed; or on-site sewage disposal system(s) in compliance with
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances shall be installed.
      (3)   All sanitary sewers and treatment facilities shall be designed in
accordance with the Recommended Standards for Wastewater Facilities, latest
edition, as published by the Great Lakes-Upper Mississippi River Board of State
and Provincial Public Health and Environmental Managers, (commonly known as the
"Ten States Standards").
      (4)   All manhole spacing shall not exceed 300 feet.
      (5)   Under no circumstances shall a proposed location of a sewer line be
within ten horizontal feet of an existing or proposed potable water main.
      (6)   All sanitary sewer system and treatment facility plans shall be
prepared by a licensed engineer or surveyor and approved by the appropriate
operating authority prior to preliminary plan approval.
   (D)   Water.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water
main supply system which shall be connected to an existing approved municipal
or community water supply.
      (2)   When the municipal or community water supply is not available, the
subdivider shall provide one of the following:
         (a)   A complete community water supply system to be provided in
accordance with the State Board of Health and the State Department of
Environmental Management; or
         (b)   An individual water supply on each lot in the subdivision in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the State Board of Health and/or
any responsible local governing authority.
      (3)   Under no circumstances shall a proposed location of a potable water
main be within ten horizontal feet of an existing or proposed sewer line.
      (4)   All plans for water main supply systems shall be prepared by a
licensed engineer and approved by the appropriate operating authority, the
State Board of Health and the State Department of Environmental Management
prior to preliminary plan approval.
      (5)   The subdivider shall provide fire hydrants according to the
appropriate operating authority standards, spaced not to exceed 1,000 feet
apart.
   (E)   Storm water drainage. The subdivider shall provide the subdivision
with an adequate storm water drainage system in accordance with the appropriate
city or county drainage ordinance. Approval of the storm water drainage system
must be obtained from the appropriate city or county board prior to preliminary
plan approval.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-10, passed 7-2-2012)
CHAPTER 151:  STORM WATER DRAINAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Scope and purpose
   
151.02   Authority
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Exemptions
   
151.05   Conflicting ordinances and interpretation
   
151.06   Disclaimer of liability
Storm Water Drainage Plans
   
151.21   Storm water control policy
   
151.22   Public road drainage policy
   
151.23   Information requirements
   
151.24   Submittal and consideration of drainage plans
   
151.25   Notifications
   
151.26   Public hearing
   
151.27   Approval
Principles and Standards of Design
   
151.31   Determination of runoff quantities
   
151.32   Rational method
   
151.33   Required design capacity of storm water control facilities
   
151.34   Storm sewer design standards
   
151.35   Workmanship and materials for storm sewers, manholes and inlets
   
151.36   Open channel design standards
   
151.37   Construction and materials for open channels
   
151.38   Storm water detention
Certifications Required
   
151.41   Changes in drainage plans
   
151.42   As-built documentation of drainage plans
   
151.43   Certificates and bonding of improvements
   
151.44   Determination of impact drainage areas
   
151.45   Establishment of new regulated drains
Fees and Penalties
   
151.51   Fees
   
151.52   Violations and penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is written as a storm water drainage ordinance for all
unincorporated areas included within the county. The City of Bicknell and all
incorporated towns within the county may also be regulated by this chapter if
adopted by the appropriate legislative body.
   (B)   Storm water drainage within the incorporated limits of the City of
Vincennes and its receiving streams are regulated under separate ordinance by
the City of Vincennes. All tracts or development sites located wholly or
partially outside the incorporated limits of the City of Vincennes that drain
into the territory of the city or facilities operated by the city shall be
under the jurisdiction of the City of Vincennes storm water ordinance.
   (C)   It is recognized that smaller streams, storm sewers, culverts and
drainage channels serving the county may not have sufficient capacity to
receive and convey storm water runoff resulting when land use changes from open
or agricultural use to a more urbanized use, or when redeveloped to a more
dense land use. Also, deposits of sediment from developments during and after
construction can reduce capacities of storm sewers, culverts and drainage
systems and result in damages to receiving lakes and streams.
   (D)   Therefore, it shall be the policy of Knox County that the storage and
controlled release of storm water runoff shall be generally required of all new
development, any re-development, and other new construction in the county,
unless specifically exempted in later sections of this section. The release
rate of storm water from developed lands shall not exceed the release rate from
the land area in its present land use according to the details and
specifications outlined in later sections of this section.
   (E)   It is further recognized that any grading and other earthwork to alter
the storm water runoff for a particular site can affect public road and
drainage structures. These activities frequently result in damages to receiving
roadside ditches, pavement and other road improvements, resulting in increased
burden and costs for road maintenance.
   (F)   Therefore, it shall also be the policy of the County Drainage Board
that any grading or other earthwork proposed on a particular site that results
in a change or alteration to the storm water runoff which in any way impacts or
affects a public road or roadside ditch, shall require review and approval by
the Highway Department prior to conducting the activity. Any proposed drainage
facilities serving a public road or within a public road right-of-way shall
also be approved by the Highway Department prior to installation or
modification.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.02  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-9-28.5.
The authority governing all drainage plans, detention/retention basins and
other drainage systems or structures approved prior to this chapter by other
boards or agencies of local government is hereby transferred to the County
Drainage Board.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Drainage Board of the county and any subordinate person to whom
they shall specifically delegate a responsibility authorized by this chapter.
   CAPACITY OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY. The maximum flow that can be conveyed
or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to public or
private property.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse which periodically or
continuously contains moving/standing water, or which forms a connecting link
between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificial volume of storage within a floodplain
used to offset loss of natural flood storage capacity when artificial fill or
structures are placed within the floodplain.
   CONDUIT. A device to convey water runoff or drainage flow.
   CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
   COUNTY SURVEYOR. The County Surveyor of Knox County, IN and any person to
whom he/she shall specifically delegate a responsibility authorized by this
section.
   CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the passage of surface drainage water
under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
   DETENTION BASIN. A storm water control facility constructed or modified to
restrict the flow of storm water to a prescribed maximum rate, and to
concurrently detain the excess waters resulting from development. This facility
has no permanent water pool during inter-storm periods.
   DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining or storage of storm water in
storage basins, underground chambers, streets, parking lots, school yards,
parks, open spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled
conditions, with the rate of drainage released therefrom regulated by
appropriately installed devices.
   DEVELOPMENT OR DEVELOPED LANDS. The activities that result in a change of
land use, or an area where a change to a more intensive land use has occurred,
or migration from a less intense to more intense land use. This activity
commonly results in increased runoff and peak discharge.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area that contributes runoff to a point of interest, or
design point, during a rainfall event (i.e., a watershed or catchment area).
   DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
   EROSION. Wearing away of the land by running water, waves, weather cycles,
ice or wind.
   FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation delineating the maximum level of high waters
for a flood of given return period and rainfall duration.
   FOOTING DRAIN. A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a building or
basement wall foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high ground water
elevation.
   GRADE/SLOPE. The inclination, or slope, of a channel, canal, conduit and the
like or natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage of
the vertical rise (or fall) to the corresponding horizontal distance.
   HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT. The Highway Department of Knox County, IN and any person
to whom they shall specifically delegate a responsibility authorized by this
section.
   IMPACT AREAS. Areas defined, listed and/or mapped by the Board which are
unlikely to be easily drained because of one or more factors including, but not
limited to, any of the following: soil type, topography, land with no adequate
drainage outlet, a floodway or flood plain, land within 75 feet of the top of
each bank of any regulated drain or within 75 feet from the center line of any
regulated storm sewer or tile drain.
   IMPERVIOUS. A term applied to material through which water cannot pass, or
through which water passes with difficulty.
   INLET. An opening into a storm sewer system for the entrance of surface
water runoff, more appropriately described as a storm sewer inlet.
   LATERAL STORM SEWER. A sewer that has inlets connected to it, but has no
other upstream storm sewer connected. LATERAL STORM SEWERS connect to a main
storm sewer outlet.
   MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Drainage systems carrying runoff from a watershed
area of one or more square miles.
   MANHOLE. Storm sewer junction and maintenance structure through which a
person or equipment may enter to gain access to an underground storm sewer or
enclosed structure.
   MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEMS. Drainage systems having a watershed area of less
than one square mile.
   OFF-SITE. Considered to be not on-site. Typically not under the direct
control or influence of the developer.
   ON-SITE. Located within the controlled area of development.
   OUTFALL. The point or location where storm runoff discharges from a storm
sewer or drain; also applies to the outfall sewer or channel which carries the
storm runoff to its point of outfall.
   PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of stormwater at a given point in a
channel or conduit resulting from a particular storm or flood, commonly
recorded in cubic feet per second.
   RADIUS OF CURVATURE. Length of radius of circle used to define a curve.
   RAINFALL INTENSITY. The cumulative depth of rainfall occurring over a given
time period, normally expressed in inches per hour.
   REACH. Any selected length of river, channel or storm sewer.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Alterations of a property that change a site or building in
such a way that a more intensive land use has occurred. This activity commonly
results in increased runoff and peak discharge. The term does not include such
activities as exterior remodeling.
   RELEASE RATE. The amount of stormwater released from a stormwater control
facility (typically a detention basin or retention pond) per unit of time. This
term is normally expressed in cubic feet per second.
   RETENTION POND. A stormwater control facility designed to retain a permanent
pool of water after having provided its planned detention of runoff during a
storm event, or one that has no outlet and discharges into the soil with time.
   RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded one time. A flood having a return period of
100 years has a one percent probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one
year.
   RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm drainage system to the total amount of
rain falling. A coefficient of 0.5 implies that 50% of the rain falling on a
given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
   SEDIMENT. Material of soil and rock origin transported, carried and
deposited by water.
   SPILLWAY. A waterway in or about a hydraulic structure for the passage or
flow of water. A portion of a stormwater control facility designed for the
passage or flow of water.
   STILLING BASIN. A water-filled basin used to dissipate energy of flowing
water.
   STORAGE DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any storm
water control facility, measured from the time water first begins to be stored
until the end of the storage need.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected storm water.
   STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or human-made, used for
conducting storm water to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a watershed,
flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or conduits.
   TRIBUTARY. Contributing storm water from upstream land areas.
   URBANIZATION. The development, re-development, change or improvement of any
parcel of land consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial,
industrial, institutional, recreational, municipal or public utility purposes.
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or man-made drainage way, river, stream, creek,
brook, branch and the like into which storm water runoff or flood waters flow
either regularly or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. See DRAINAGE AREA.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.04  EXEMPTIONS.
   Any development for agricultural use, or residential use of two units or
less, or other minor developments as determined by the County Surveyor, may be
exempted from the requirements of this chapter for the detention and controlled
runoff for a specific development site, but must comply with all other
applicable requirements and standards outlined in this and any other local
ordinances and applicable laws. Any exemption granted or denied by the County
Surveyor shall be reported at the next meeting of the Board and an applicant
may appeal any decision of the County Surveyor to the Board at the meeting. The
Board shall also be authorized to grant exemptions from any and all
requirements of this chapter at its discretion.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.05  CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Conflict with other local regulations.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional
requirements to minimum standards required by other local ordinances including,
but not limited to, the County Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, Zoning
Ordinance and Subdivision and Control Ordinance
      (2)   If the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with one
another, or if they conflict with provisions found in other local ordinances or
regulations, the more restrictive provision will control.
   (B)   Conflict with state or federal regulations.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional
requirements to any state or federal regulations that may apply to a given
development site.
      (2)   If the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with regulations
of the state or federal government, the more restrictive provision shall
control, to the extent permitted by law.
   (C)   Conflict with private easements, agreements or covenants. This chapter
is not intended to abrogate, annul or otherwise interfere with any private
easement, agreement, covenant, restriction or other legal private relationship.
The Board is responsible for enforcing this chapter; it does not enforce
private agreements, easements, covenants or restrictions. However, the Board
may require an applicant to obtain such private agreements, easements,
covenants or restrictions if necessary to ensure the legality, function or
perpetuity of a proposed drainage plan.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.06  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records,
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or storm
water runoff amounts may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that land uses permitted will be free from storm water
damage. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the county or
any officer, representative or employee thereof, for any damage which may
result from reliance on this chapter or on any administrative decision lawfully
made there under.
   (B)   Knox County or any agency thereof assumes no responsibility, beyond
its regulatory authority, for the planning, design or construction of storm
water control facilities. It shall be the sole responsibility of the developer
to assure that designs are in compliance with the standards of this chapter and
that construction will be completed accordingly. It shall also be the
developer’s responsibility to assure that all other local, state and federal
requirements are met in the completion of site development.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
STORM WATER DRAINAGE PLANS
§ 151.21  STORM WATER CONTROL POLICY.
   (A)   The County understands that many streams and drainage channels serving
the county may not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey storm water
runoff resulting from existing and continued urbanization. Accordingly, the
storage and controlled release rate of excess storm water runoff shall be
generally required for any development, re-development and new construction on
real estate which lies within the jurisdiction of the Board, unless
specifically exempted under this section. Drainage plans and calculations for
the detention and controlled runoff for a specific development site shall
comply with all provisions of this chapter and be submitted to the Board for
approval prior to application for an improvement location permit.
   (B)   The release rate of storm water from development, re-development and
new construction shall not exceed the storm water runoff rate from the land
area in its present condition. The developer must submit detailed computations
of runoff before and after development, re-development or new construction,
that demonstrate that the runoff rate will not be increased.
   (C)   These computations must show that the peak runoff release rate after
development for the 100-year return period storm of critical duration must not
exceed the ten-year return period pre-development peak runoff rate. The
critical duration storm is that storm duration that requires the greatest
detention storage. Furthermore, the peak runoff rate after development for the
ten-year return period storm of critical duration must not exceed the two-year
return period pre-development peak runoff rate.
   (D)   Special cases may exist where the downstream drainage capacity may be
limited in a way that strict adherence to this policy may result in undue
property damage. In these cases, the Board may further restrict the peak runoff
release rate. As determined by the Board, the allowable release rate may be
reduced so that additional detention shall be required to store that portion of
the runoff exceeding the capacity of the receiving sewers or waterways.
   (E)   Special cases may also exist where the detention of runoff from a
development would be detrimental to the overall watershed and drainage outfall.
In these cases, the Board may waive or reduce detention requirements.
   (F)   The Board, after thorough investigation and evaluation, may waive or
reduce the requirement of controlled runoff for a specific development site if
hydrologic modeling of the watershed and receiving stream prove that the
reduction or waiver of controlled runoff is warranted. It shall be the
responsibility of the developer to have the modeling prepared and submitted to
the Board for approval under the same procedures and requirements outlined in
this chapter for a drainage plan.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.22  PUBLIC ROAD DRAINAGE POLICY.
   (A)   The primary function of roadside ditches is to provide drainage for
road improvements. The County understands that the drainage of adjacent private
property is in most cases unavoidable and necessary; however, drainage of
adjacent private property should be considered of secondary importance to
maintenance and safety of the road. Accordingly, any and all modifications to
road side ditches located inside of and outside of a public road right-of-way
shall require prior approval from the Highway Department.
   (B)   Also, any grading or other earthwork proposed on a particular site
that results in a change or alteration to the stormwater runoff which in any
way impacts or affects a public road or roadside ditch shall require review and
approval from the Highway Department prior to conducting said activity.
   (C)   Any proposed work requiring the installation or modification of any
storm sewers, culverts, control structures or other drainage facilities serving
a public road or within a public road right-of-way shall be submitted to the
Highway Department for approval prior to installation or modification. Any such
proposed facilities requiring a bore under or cut in the road pavement shall
also comply with §
92.03 of the Code of Ordinances of Knox County, Indiana.
   (D)   Drainage plans for any proposed work covered by this section need not
comply with this section or §§
151.23 through
151.26, §§
151.31 et seq., and §
151.42, but drainage plans for any proposed work covered by this section are
substantially subject to all other applicable provisions of this section. Site
sketches and descriptions adequately depicting the scope of proposed work shall
be submitted to the Highway Department for approval prior to conducting such
activity. The Highway Department, at its discretion, may require the applicant
to resubmit plans that comply with one or more of the above exempted sections
at the applicant's expense. All plans submitted shall be accompanied by a check
or money order in the amount consistent with the current fee schedule.
   (E)   The Highway Department shall consider the impact of any proposed work
on adjacent road improvements, receiving streams and downstream drainage
capacities. After thorough investigation and evaluation, the Highway Department
may waive requirements or impose additional restrictions as a condition of
approval and shall approve work only after determining there will be no damage
or adverse effect to a public road or roadside ditch.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.23  INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All of the following information and data, prepared and certified by a
state licensed professional engineer or professional surveyor engaged in storm
drainage design, shall be submitted to the Board for approval prior to
application for an improvement location permit for any development, re-
development or new construction on real estate which lies within the
jurisdiction of the Board.
   (B)   The minimum sheet size of all maps and plats submitted in conjunction
with the following shall be 8 1/2 inches by 11 inches; and the maximum sheet
size shall be 24 inches by 36 inches.
      (1)   Topographic and soils map. A soils map of the proposed development
and off-site contributing drainage areas, indicating soil names and their
hydrologic classification, must be provided. In addition, a topographic map of
the land to be developed and the adjoining land whose topography may affect the
layout or drainage of the development must be provided. The contour intervals
shall be one foot when slopes are less than 4% and shall be two feet when the
slope exceeds 4%. On this map, the following shall be shown:
         (a)   The location of streams and other flood water runoff channels,
the extent of the floodplains at the established 100-year flood elevation where
available (regulatory floodway), and limits of the floodway, all properly
identified;
         (b)   The normal shoreline of lakes, ponds, swamps and storm water
control facilities, their floodplains, and points of inflow and outflow if any;
         (c)   The location and elevation of regulated drains, farm drains,
inlets and outfalls, if any of record;
         (d)   Storm, sanitary, and combined sewers and outfalls, if any of
record;
         (e)   The location of domestic and commercial waste systems and
outlets, if any of record, or as otherwise known to applicant; and
         (f)   Seeps, wetlands, springs and wells, that are visible or of
record.
      (2)   Drainage plan. A comprehensive plan designed to safely handle the
storm water runoff and to detain the increased storm water runoff must be
provided. The plan shall provide or be accompanied by maps or other descriptive
materials, illustrating pre-development and proposed development conditions,
indicating the feasibility of the drainage plan and showing the following:
         (a)   The extent and area of each watershed affecting the design of
detention facilities as shown on USGS Quadrangle Maps or other more detailed
maps as required by the Board. Also, provide a vicinity map that geographically
locates the project area within the county;
         (b)   The extent and area of each watershed tributary to the drainage
channels in the development;
         (c)   The street storm sewers and other storm drains to be built, the
basis of their design, outfall and outlet locations and elevations, the
receiving stream or channel and its 100-year water elevation, and the
functioning of the drains during high water conditions;
         (d)   The parts of the proposed street system where pavements are
planned to be depressed sufficiently to convey or temporarily store overflow
from storm sewers and over the curb runoff resulting from the heavier
rainstorms and the outlets for the overflow;
         (e)   Existing streams and floodplains to be maintained, and new
channels to be constructed, their locations, cross sections and profiles;
         (f)   Proposed culverts and bridges to be built, their materials,
elevations, waterway openings and basis of their design;
         (g)   Existing storm water control facilities to be maintained,
enlarged or otherwise altered and new basins or ponds to be built and the basis
of their design;
         (h)   The estimated location and percentage of impervious surfaces
existing and expected to be constructed when the development is completed;
         (i)   The slope, type and size of all sewers and other waterways;
         (j)   For all detention and retention basins, a plot or tabulation of
storage volumes with corresponding water surface elevations and a plot or
tabulation of the basin outflow rates for those water surface elevations;
         (k)   Proof that a storm water pollution prevention plan for handling
storm water runoff associated with construction activity, in accordance with
327 I.A.C. 15-5, has been filed with the County Soil and Water Conservation
District;
         (l)   Any existing and proposed easements and rights of access; and
         (m)   Party responsible for the permanent ownership and maintenance of
the drainage system and a description of all maintenance requirements.
      (3)   Valley cross section. One or more typical cross sections must be
provided showing all existing and proposed channels or other open drainage
facilities carried to a point above the 100-year high water elevation; showing
the elevation of the existing land and the proposed changes thereto, together
with the high water elevations expected from the 100-year storm under the
controlled conditions called for by this chapter; and showing the relationship
of structures, streets and other facilities.
      (4)   Site plan. A plan drawn to scale showing dimensions of the site
with existing and proposed storm drainage facilities must be provided.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.24  SUBMITTAL AND CONSIDERATION OF DRAINAGE PLANS.
   Drainage plans shall be submitted to the County Surveyor at least 30
calendar days before the desired date of the public hearing. All plans
submitted shall be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount
consistent with the current fee schedule. The County Surveyor shall review said
plans and determine any necessary changes, corrections or other revisions. The
County Surveyor shall review these revisions with the applicant, and any
revisions that are not agreed upon can be appealed to the Board at the hearing.
All agreed upon revisions shall be made to the plans and shall be resubmitted
to the County Surveyor no later than  ten calendar days prior to the date of
the public hearing.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.25  NOTIFICATIONS.
   After an application for approval of a drainage plan with all maps and
information has been submitted by the specified deadline, the Board shall
conduct a public hearing on the drainage plan at their next scheduled meeting.
Notice of the hearing as per I.C. 5-3-1 shall be made by the applicant at their
expense. In addition, at least ten working days before the date of the public
hearing, the applicant shall also provide written notice by certified mail to
the record land owner of all properties immediately adjoining the subject
property. The written notice shall include the date, time and place of the
public hearing. Proofs of publication and notice to adjoining land owners shall
be provided by the applicant no later than the time of the public hearing.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.26  PUBLIC HEARING.
   A public hearing on any matter before the Board shall not be conducted
unless all required information is filed by the specified deadlines, and proofs
of publication and notice to adjoining land owners are provided. At the hearing
for a drainage plan, the Board shall review all information submitted with the
application and provided at the time of the hearing, and shall hear any
testimony from the applicant and interested parties. In considering information
presented at the hearing, the Board, at its discretion, may elect to continue
the matter until its next scheduled public meeting, or may schedule a visit to
the site of the proposed development.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.27  APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Highway Department shall review all plans submitted in accordance
with §
151.21 and determine its findings in the matter. The Highway Department shall
approve or conditionally approve all plans in compliance with the standards of
this Ordinance, and good engineering practice standards. The Highway Department
shall provide the applicant with written notice of its approval, disapproval or
conditional approval of the plan.
      (1)   The decision of the Highway Department may be appealed to the Knox
County Commissioners.  A written request for such appeal must be filed with the
Knox County Auditor within 30 days of receipt of the written notice from the
Highway Department. The County Commissioners shall schedule a hearing on the
appeal within 30 days of receipt of the request for appeal.
      (2)   Any Highway Department or County Commissioner approval shall be
contingent on obtaining all necessary local, state and federal approvals or
permits.
   (B)   Upon concluding the hearing of a drainage plan, the Board shall state
its findings in the matter, and determine the approval, disapproval or
conditional approval of the plan. The Board shall approve or conditionally
approve all plans in compliance with the standards of this chapter, and good
engineering practice standards. The Board will inform the applicant of its
decision and any modifications or conditions upon which approval is contingent.
The findings and decision of the Board will be entered in the official minutes
of the meeting. Any Board approval shall be contingent on obtaining all
necessary local, state and federal approvals or permits.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 151.31  DETERMINATION OF RUNOFF QUANTITIES.
   (A)   Because topography and the availability and adequacy of outlets for
storm runoff vary with almost every site, the requirements for storm drainage
tend to be an individual matter for any project. It is required that each
proposed project be discussed with the County Surveyor at the earliest
practical time in the planning stage.
   (B)   Runoff quantities shall be computed for the area of the parcel under
development, plus the area of the watershed flowing into or through the parcel
under development. The quantity of runoff which is generated as the result of a
given rainfall intensity must be calculated as follows.
      (1)   For areas up to and including 20 acres, the Rational Method may be
used to determine runoff quantities. The procedure is described in the HERPICC
Storm Water Design Manual. Other design methods as described below in division
(B)(2) below may also be used.
      (2)   For areas larger than 20 acres, hydrograph techniques and/or
computer drainage modeling methods must be used. The techniques or methods used
shall be proven methods in the practice of hydrology, subject to approval of
the Board. The Advanced Interconnect Pond and Channel Routing, SWMM, HEC-HMS,
NRCS TR-20 (Project Formulation, Hydrology) and NRCS TR-55 (Urban Hydrology for
Small Watersheds) models are approved by the Board for appropriate use in
analysis of the runoff and routing of storm water.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.32  RATIONAL METHOD.
   (A)   In the Rational Method, the peak rate of runoff, Q, in cubic feet per
second is computed as:
      Q = CIA
   Where:
   C = runoff coefficient, representing the characteristics of the drainage
area and defined as the ratio of runoff to rainfall
   I = average intensity of rainfall in inches per hour for a duration equal to
the time of concentration (tc) for a selected rainfall frequency. The practical
minimum time to be used is ten minutes
   A = tributary drainage area in acres
   (B)   Guidance to selection of the runoff coefficient “C” is provided in
Tables 1 and 1A below, which show values for different types of surface and
local soil characteristics. The composite “C” value used for a given drainage
area with various surface types shall be the weighted average for the total
area calculated from a breakdown of individual areas having different surface
types.
   (C)   (1)   Table 2 provides runoff coefficients for different land use
classifications.
      (2)   In the instance of undeveloped land situated in an upstream area, a
coefficient or coefficients shall be used for this area in its present or
existing state of development.
   (D)   (1)   Rainfall intensity shall be determined from the rainfall
frequency table shown in Table 5A below.
      (2)   The time of concentration (tc) to be used shall be the sum of the
inlet time and flow time, or travel time, in the drainage facility from the
most hydraulically remote part of the drainage area to the point under
consideration.
   (E)   Inlet time is the combined time required for the runoff to reach the
inlet of a storm sewer. It includes overland flow time and flow time through
established surface drainage channels such as swales, ditches and sheet flow
across such areas as lawns, fields and other graded surfaces.
   (F)   The flow time, or travel time, in the storm sewers may be estimated by
the distance in feet divided by velocity of flow in feet per second. The
velocity shall be determined using Manning’s Equation.
Table 1: Urban Runoff Coefficients
Type of Surface Runoff Coefficient “C”
Table 1: Urban Runoff Coefficients
Type of Surface                Runoff Coefficient “C”
Asphalt                        0.82
Compacted gravel/crushed stone 0.85
Concrete                       0.85
Lawns (clay)
   Flat (0-2%)              0.16
   Rolling (2-7%)           0.21
   Steep (greater than 7%)  0.30
Lawns (sandy)
   Flat (0-2%)              0.07
   Rolling (2-7%)           0.12
   Steep (greater than 7%)  0.17
Roof                           0.85
 
Table 1A: Rural Runoff Coefficients
Type of Surface Runoff Coefficient “C”
Table 1A: Rural Runoff Coefficients
Type of Surface             Runoff Coefficient “C”
Cultivated (clay)
   Flat                  0.50
   Rolling               0.60
   Steep                 0.72
Cultivated (sandy)
   Flat                  0.30
   Rolling               0.40
   Steep                 0.52
Fallow
Farmsteads
Pasture (clay)
   Flat                  0.30
   Rolling               0.36
   Steep                 0.42
Pasture (sandy)
   Flat                  0.10
   Rolling               0.16
   Steep                 0.22
Woodlands (clay)
   Flat                  0.30
   Rolling               0.35
   Steep                 0.50
Woodlands (sandy)
   Flat (0-5% slope)     0.10
   Rolling (5-10% slope) 0.25
   Steep (greater than 100.30
 
Table 2: Runoff Coefficients by Land Use
Land Use Runoff Coefficients “C”
         Flat Rolling Steep
Table 2: Runoff Coefficients by Land Use
Land Use                  Runoff Coefficients “C”
                          Flat Rolling Steep
Churches                  0.54 0.60    0.66
Commercial                0.75 0.83    0.91
Commercial (neighborhood) 0.54 0.60    0.66
Detached residential      0.40 0.45    0.50
Garden apartments         0.54 0.60    0.66
Half-acre lots            0.31 0.35    0.39
Industrial                0.63 0.70    0.77
Park land                 0.18 0.20    0.22
Quarter-acre lots         0.36 0.40    0.44
Schools                   0.31 0.35    0.39
Semi-detached residential 0.45 0.50    0.55
General Notes:
—Flat terrain 0-2% slopes.
—Rolling terrain 2-7% slopes.
—Steep terrain greater than 7% slopes.
—Interpolation, extrapolation and adjustment for local conditions shall be
based on engineering experience and judgment.
 
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.33  REQUIRED DESIGN CAPACITY OF STORM WATER CONTROL FACILITIES.
   Various parts of a drainage facility must accommodate runoff water as
follows.
   (A)   The minor drainage system such as inlets, catch basins, steel gutters,
swales, culverts, sewers and small channels, which collect storm water, must
accommodate peak runoff from a ten-year return period storm. Rainfall duration
shall be equal to the time of concentration or ten minutes if the time of
concentration is less than ten minutes. First quartile storm distribution and
one-hour storm duration shall be used for computer modeling. These storm
distribution coordinates are contained in Table 6. The following additional
requirements must be satisfied.
      (1)   Open channels carrying peak flows greater than 30 cubic feet per
second shall be capable of accommodating peak runoff for a 50-year return
period storm within the drainage easement.
      (2)   Culverts shall be capable of accommodating peak runoff from a 50-
year return period storm when crossing under a road which is part of the State
Department of Highways rural functional classification system and are
classified as principal or minor arterial, or collector roads. The minimum
culvert size under all public roads shall be 15 inches.
      (3)   Temporary water storage will not be permitted on any local street
or road, except by special exception of the Board.
   (B)   Major drainage systems are defined in §
151.03 and shall be designed in accordance with State Department of Natural
Resources standards.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.34  STORM SEWER DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All storm sewers subject to this chapter whether private or public, and
whether constructed on private or public property, shall conform to the design
standards and other requirements contained herein.
The hydraulic capacity of storm sewers shall be determined using Manning’s
Equation:
   (A)   Manning’s Equation.
      Q = (A)(V)
   Where; V = 1.486 R(2/3) S(1/2)
         n
   A = Waterway area of conduit in square feet
   Q = Discharge in cubic feet per second (cfs)
   V = mean velocity of flow in feet per second
   R = the hydraulic radius in feet
   S = the slope of the energy grade line in feet per foot
   n = roughness coefficient
      (1)   The hydraulic radius, R, is defined as the cross sectional area of
flow divided by the wetted flow surface or wetted perimeter.
      (2)   Typical “n” values and maximum permissible velocities for storm
sewer materials are listed in Table 3. Roughness coefficient “n” values for
other sewer materials can be found in standard hydraulics texts and references.
   (B)   Minimum size. The minimum culvert size under all public roads shall be
15 inches. The minimum size of all other storm sewers and culverts shall be 12
inches. Where a 12-inch pipe will not limit the rate of release as required,
the rate of release for detention storage shall be controlled by an orifice
plate or other devices, subject to approval of the Board.
   (C)   Grade. Sewer grade shall be such that, in general, a minimum of two
feet of cover is maintained over the top of the pipe. Pipe cover less than the
minimum may be used only upon the approval of the Board. Uniform slopes shall
be maintained between inlets, manholes and inlets to manholes. Final grade
shall be set with full consideration of capacity required, sedimentation
problems and other design parameters. Minimum and maximum allowable slopes
shall be those capable of producing velocities of two and one-half and 15 feet
per second, respectively when the sewer is flowing full. Velocity in excess of
seven feet per second shall require the use of water-tight joints to reduce
soil infiltration potential.
   (D)   Alignment. Storm sewers shall be straight between manholes insofar as
possible. Where long radius curves are necessary to conform to street layout,
the minimum radius of curvature shall be no less than 100 feet for sewers 42
inches and larger in diameter. Deflection of pipe sections shall not exceed the
maximum deflection recommended by the pipe manufacturer. The deflection shall
be uniform and finished installation shall follow a smooth curve. Storm sewers
smaller than 42 inches in diameter shall not be curved.
   (E)   Manholes. Manholes shall be installed to provide access to continuous
underground storm sewers for the purpose of inspection and maintenance.
Manholes shall be provided at the following locations:
      (1)   Where two or more storm sewers converge;
      (2)   At the point of beginning or at the end of a curve, and at the
point of reverse curvature (PC, PT, PRC);
      (3)   Where pipe size changes;
      (4)   Where an abrupt change in alignment occurs;
      (5)   Where a change in grade occurs; and
      (6)   At suitable intervals in straight sections of sewer (400 feet
maximum distance).
   (F)   Inlets. Storm inlets or drainage structures shall be utilized to
collect surface water through grated openings and convey it to storm sewers,
channels or culverts. Inlet design and spacing shall be in accordance with § 7-
400 of the State Department of Highways’ Road Design Manual Volume 1 or other
approved design procedure. The inlet grate openings provided must be adequate
to pass the design ten-year flow with 50% of the sag inlet areas clogged. An
overflow channel from sag inlets to a channel or basin shall be provided at sag
inlets, so that the maximum depth of water that might be ponded in the street
sag or gutter shall not exceed 12 inches above the gutter elevation.
Table 3: Typical Values of Manning’s “n”
Material Manning’s Desirable Maximum Velocities*
Table 3: Typical Values of Manning’s “n”
Material                                        Manning’s Desirable Maximum
                                                              Velocities*
Circular corrugated metal pipe, annular corrugations, 2-2/3 x 1/2 in.
   Unpaved                                   0.024         10 f.p.s.1
   25% paved                                 0.021         10 f.p.s.1
   50% paved                                 0.018         10 f.p.s.1
   100% paved                                0.013         10 f.p.s.1
Circular corrugated metal pipe, helical, 2-2/3 x 1/2 in. unpaved corrugations
   12"                                       0.011         10 f.p.s.1
   18"                                       0.013         10 f.p.s.1
   24"                                       0.015         10 f.p.s.1
   36"                                       0.018         10 f.p.s.1
   48"                                       0.020         10 f.p.s.1
   60" or larger                             0.021         10 f.p.s.1
Closed conduits
   Brick                                     0.015         15 f.p.s.
   Cast iron                                 0.013         15 f.p.s.
   Concrete                                  0.013         15 f.p.s.
   Vitrified                                 0.013         15 f.p.s.
Corrugated polyethylene smooth interior pipe    0.012         15 f.p.s.1
(HDPE)
Open channels
   Concrete, broom or float finish           0.013
   Concrete, trowel finish                   0.013
   Dense growth of weeds                     0.040
   Dense weeds and light brush               0.040
   Dense weeds and heavy brush               0.060
   Existing earth (fairly uniform, with some 0.030
weeds)
   Gabion                                    0.028
   Gunite                                    0.018
   New earth (uniform, sodded, clay)         0.025
   Riprap, hand-placed                       0.030
   Riprap, dumped                            0.035
   Swale with grass                          0.035
NOTES TO TABLE:
—*Velocity in excess of 7 f.p.s. require the use of water tight joints.
—Values shown are for materials in good condition.
—Values may increase as materials age or are damaged.
 
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.35  WORKMANSHIP AND MATERIALS FOR STORM SEWERS, MANHOLES AND INLETS.
   (A)   Workmanship. The specifications for the construction of storm sewers
shall not be less stringent than those set forth in the latest edition of the
State Department of Highways Standard Specifications; additionally, ductile
iron pipe shall be laid in accordance with American Society of Testing
Materials (ASTM) C-12.8
   (B)   Materials.
      (1)   Storm sewer manholes and inlets shall be constructed of masonry,
cast in place concrete, precast reinforced concrete or other material approved
by the Board. Material and construction shall conform to the current State
Department of Highways Standard Specifications unless otherwise approved in
advance of installation by the Board.
      (2)   Pipe and fittings used in storm sewer construction shall be:
         (a)   PVC meeting the requirements of ASTM D-3034 SDR 35 with joints
meeting the requirements of ASTM D-3212;
         (b)   High density polyethylene (HDPE) meeting the requirements of
AASHTO 294 and ASTM D-1248 with joints meeting the requirements of ASTM D-3212;
or
         (c)   Concrete pipe (ASTM C-76).
      (3)   Other pipe and fittings not specified herein may be used only when
specifically authorized by the Board. Pipe joints shall be flexible, watertight
and shall conform to the requirements of the materials of the latest edition of
the State Department of Highways Standard Specifications.
      (4)   The Board reserves the right to select pipe/fitting materials for
selected uses in all drainage projects involving public rights-of-way in the
county. Approval shall be subject to the review and concurrence of the
municipal engineering heads of the cities and towns.
   (C)   Special hydraulic structures. Special hydraulic structures required to
control the flow of water in storm runoff drainage systems include junction
chambers, drop manholes, inverted siphons, stilling basins and other special
structures. The use of these structures shall be limited to those locations
justified by prudent planning and by careful and thorough hydraulic engineering
analysis.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.36  OPEN CHANNEL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All open channels subject to this chapter whether private or public, and
whether constructed on private or public land, shall conform to the design
standards and other requirements contained herein. The waterway for channels
shall be determined using Manning’s Equation.
   (A)   Manning’s Equation.
      Q = (A)(V)
   Where;
   V =   1.486   R(2/3) S(1/2)
      n
   A = Waterway area of channel in square feet
   Q = Discharge in cubic feet per second (cfs)
   V = mean velocity of flow in feet per second
   R = the hydraulic radius in feet
   S = Slope of the energy grade line in feet per foot (approximated by channel
bottom slope in most cases)
   n = roughness coefficient
   (B)   Channel cross section and grade.
      (1)   The required channel cross section and grade are determined by the
design capacity, site topographical conditions, the material in which the
channel is to be constructed, and the requirements for maintenance.
      (2)   A minimum depth may be required to provide adequate outlets for
subsurface drains, tributary/lateral ditches or streams. The channel grade
shall be such that the velocity in the channel is high enough to prevent
siltation, but low enough to prevent erosion. Velocities less than one and one-
half feet per second should be avoided, where possible, because siltation will
take place and ultimately reduce the channel cross section resulting in more
frequent maintenance required. The maximum permissible velocities in
vegetation-lined channels are shown in Table 4. Developments through which the
channel is to be constructed must be considered in design of the channel
section. The proposed channel may increase sediment load, peak discharge and
velocity in downstream reaches.
   (C)   Side slopes. Earthen channel side slopes shall be no steeper than two
to one, and shall be dependent on existing soil conditions. Flatter slopes may
be required to prevent sloughing or erosion and for ease of maintenance. It is
desirable to have slopes that are easily mowed to control vegetation and the
growth of brush. Where channels will be lined, side slopes shall be no steeper
than one and one-half to one with adequate provision made for bank drainage.
Side slopes steeper than one and one-half to one may be used for lined
channels; provided that, the side lining and structural retaining wall are
designed and constructed with provisions for live and dead load surcharge.
Maximum allowable side slopes for road side ditches are outlined in the Knox
County Subdivision Control Ordinance.
   (D)   Channel stability.
      (1)   Characteristics of a stable channel are:
         (a)   It neither aggrades nor degrades beyond tolerable limits;
         (b)   The channel banks do not erode to the extent that the channel
cross section is changed appreciably;
         (c)   Excessive sediment bars do not develop;
         (d)   Excessive erosion does not occur around culverts, bridges or
other channel structures; and
         (e)   Gullies do not form or enlarge due to the entry of uncontrolled
surface flow to the channel.
      (2)   Channel stability shall be determined for an aged condition and the
velocity shall be based on the design flow or the bank full flow, whichever is
greater, using roughness coefficient “n” values for various channel linings as
shown in Table 3.
      (3)   Channel stability must also be checked for conditions immediately
after construction. For this stability analysis, the velocity shall be
calculated for the expected flow from a ten-year return period storm from the
watershed, or the bank full flow, whichever is smaller. The roughness
coefficient “n” value for newly constructed channels shall be as shown in Table
3. The allowable velocity in the newly constructed channel may be increased by
a maximum of 20% to reflect the effects of vegetation to be established under
the following conditions:
         (a)   The soil and site in which the channel is to be constructed are
suitable for rapid establishment and support of erosion controlling vegetation;
         (b)   Species of erosion controlling vegetation adapted to the area
and proven methods of establishment are shown; and
         (c)   The channel design includes detailed plans for establishment of
vegetation on the channel side slopes, and a maintenance plan is in place to
ensure vegetation is established.
   (E)   Drainage of waterways. Vegetated waterways that are subject to low
flows of long duration, or where wet conditions prevail, shall be drained with
a tile system or by other means such as paved gutters. Tile lines should be a
minimum of six inches in size, be offset from the center line, and may be
outlet through a drop structure at the end of the waterway or through a
standard tile outlet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1169.jpg]
 
   (F)   Appurtenant structures.
      (1)   The design of channels shall include all structures required for
the proper functioning of the channel, the laterals thereto, and travel ways
for operation and maintenance. Recessed inlets and related structures needed
for entry of surface and subsurface flow into floodway channels, without
significant erosion or degradation, shall be included in the design of channel
improvements. The design is also to provide the necessary flood gates, water
level control devices, structural grade control and any other appurtenance
affecting the functioning of the channels and the attainment of the purpose for
which they are built.
      (2)   The effect of channel improvements on existing culverts, bridges,
buried cables, pipelines, utilities and other like items shall be evaluated to
determine the need for modification or replacement. Culverts and bridges which
are modified or added as part of channel improvement projects shall meet design
and construction practice standards for the type of structure, and shall have a
minimum capacity equal to the design discharge or appropriate governmental
agency design requirements, whichever is greater.
      (3)   Utilities on or adjacent to a site being developed, or redeveloped,
are the sole responsibility of the developer. The Board will not be held
responsible for the existence, location, modification or damage to any
utilities encountered while performing any activities related to this chapter.
   (G)   Disposition of spoil. Spoil material resulting from clearing, grubbing
and channel excavation shall be disposed in a manner which will:
      (1)   Minimize overbank wash. Maintain a minimum 15-foot wide berm
between the top of bank and beginning of spoil toe;
      (2)   Provide for the free flow of water between the channel and
floodplain unless the valley routing and water surface profile are based on
continuous dikes being installed;
      (3)    Not limit the deve lopment of travel ways along the ditch for
maintena nce purposes;
      (4 )   Leave the right-of-way in as good of condition or better than
existed prior to construction; or in the best condition feasible for productive
use by the owner, consistent with the project purposes;
      (5)   Improve the aesthetic appearance of the site to the extent
feasible;
      (6)   Be approved by the IDNR or US Army Corps of Engineers (as
applicable) if deposited in the floodway; and
      (7)   Comply with 327 I.A.C. 15-5, “Rule 5”, erosion and sediment control
requirements.
   (H)   Brush and trees. Brush and trees may be disposed of by removing from
the site, burying or burning in accordance with local and state regulations.
Table 4: Maximum Permissible Velocities in Vegetal-Lined Channels and
Watercourses(6)
                      Permissible Velocity (1)
Cover Slope Range (%) Erosion Resistant Soils Easily Eroded Soils
                      (ft. per sec.)          (ft. per sec.)
Table 4: Maximum Permissible Velocities in Vegetal-Lined Channels and
Watercourses(6)
                                       Permissible Velocity (1)
Cover                  Slope Range (%) Erosion Resistant Easily Eroded Soils
                                       Soils             (ft. per sec.)
                                       (ft. per sec.)
Alfalfa                0-5             3.5               2.5
                       0-5             8                 6
Bermudagrass           5-10            7                 5
                       over 10         6                 4
Blue Grass (other turf Over 10         5                 3
grasses)
Common Lespedeza(4)    0-5(5)          3.5               2.5
Grass Mixtures         0-5(2)          5                 4
Kentucky Blue grass    0-5             7                 5
Lespediza Sericea      0-5(3)          5                 4
Red Fescue             0-5             3.5               2.5
Redtop                 0-5             3.5               2.5
Reed Canarygrass       5-10            4                 3
Smooth Brome           5-10            6                 4
Sudangrass(4)          0-5             3.5               2.5
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) Use velocities exceeding 5 feet per second only where good cover and
proper maintenance can be obtained.
(2) Do not use on slopes steeper than 10%, except for vegetated side slopes
in combination with stone, concrete or highly resistant vegetative center
section.
(3) Do not use on slopes steeper than 5%, except for vegetated side slopes
in combination with stone, concrete or highly resistant vegetative center
section.
(4) Annuals - use on mild slopes or as temporary protection until permanent
covers are established.
(5) Use on slopes steeper than 5% is not recommended.
(6) Adapted from Natural Resources Conservation Service, SCS-TP-61, Handbook
of Channel Design for Soil & Water Conservation, 1949.
 
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.37  CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIALS FOR OPEN CHANNELS.
   (A)   Construction. Specifications shall be in keeping with the current
standards of engineering and construction practice and shall describe the
requirements for proper installation of the project to achieve its intended
purpose without damage to either on or off-site facilities.
   (B)   Materials.
      (1)   Materials acceptable for use as channel slope protection are:
         (a)   Vegetation;
         (b)   Revetment riprap;
         (c)   Concrete, formed and poured;
         (d)   Hand-laid riprap;
         (e)   Precast cement concrete riprap/ slope paving materials;
         (f)   Grouted riprap; and
         (g)   Gabions.
      (2)   Other lining materials shall receive special approval of the Board.
Materials shall comply with the latest edition of the State Department of
Highways Standard Specifications, and shall have no detrimental effects on
storm water flow, the environment or fish and wildlife. Refuse materials such
as bricks, blocks, broken concrete and other rubble shall not be used as lining
materials unless specifically approved by the Board.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-14)
§ 151.38  STORM WATER DETENTION.
   The following shall govern the design of any improvement with respect to the
detention of storm water runoff.
   (A)   Acceptable detention methods.
      (1)   (a)   The increased storm water runoff resulting from a proposed
development shall bedetained on-site by the provisions of appropriate detention
or retention basins, underground storage, parking lots, streets, lawns or other
acceptable techniques.
         (b)   Measures, which further retard the rate of overland flow and the
velocity in runoff channels may also be required to partially control the
runoff rate.
      (2)   (a)   Detention basins or underground storage shall be sized to
store excess flows from storms with a 100-year return period.
         (b)   Control devices shall limit the maximum release to a rate no
greater than that prescribed by this chapter.
   (B)   Design storm.
      (1)   Design of storm water detention facilities shall be based on a
return period of once in 100 years, or a 1% chance of occurrence in any given
year.
      (2)   The storage volume and outflow rate shall be sufficient to handle
storm water runoff from the most critical of a one-hour or six-hour storm.
      (3)   Rainfall depth-duration-frequency relationships and intensity-
duration-frequency relationships used shall be those given in Tables 5 and 5A.
 
Table 5: Point Precipitation Rainfall Depth (inches) for a Given
Recurrence Interval
Duration 2-year 5-year 10-year 25-year 50-year 100-year
6-hr     2.27   2.82   3.28    3.92    4.45    5.01
1-hr     1.48   1.84   2.12    2.49    2.79    3.09
NOTES TO TABLE:
Reference: NOAA Atlas 14, Volume 2, Version 3
 
Table 5A: Rainfall Intensity (inches per hour) for a Given Recurrence
Interval
T (hrs) 2-year 5-year 10-year 25-year 50-year 100-year
Table 5A: Rainfall Intensity (inches per hour) for a Given Recurrence
Interval
T (hrs) 2-year 5-year 10-year 25-year 50-year 100-year
0.08    5.07   5.95   6.72    7.88    8.90    10.04
0.17    4.03   4.73   5.34    6.27    7.08    7.99
0.25    3.37   3.96   4.47    5.24    5.92    6.68
0.33    2.87   3.37   3.80    4.46    5.03    5.68
0.5     2.13   2.50   2.82    3.31    3.73    4.21
0.67    1.65   1.94   2.19    2.57    2.90    3.27
0.83    1.34   1.58   1.78    2.09    2.36    2.66
1.5     0.69   0.81   0.92    1.08    1.22    1.38
Derived using IDF Equation 2.2.13 and Evansville data from Table 2.2.2
LTAP Stormwater Drainage Manual, Revised February 2008
 
Table 6: Rainfall Distribution Ordinates for Hydrologic Modeling
(Temporal Distribution: 6-Hour Duration)
(1st Quartile Distribution - 50% Exceedance Probability)
% Storm Time % Storm Rainfall Depth Total
Table 6: Rainfall Distribution Ordinates for Hydrologic Modeling
(Temporal Distribution: 6-Hour Duration)
(1st Quartile Distribution - 50% Exceedance Probability)
% Storm Time % Storm Rainfall Depth Total
0            0
10           25
20           44
30           63
40           77
50           84
60           90
70           94
80           97
90           99
100          100
Note:
Use for both 1-hour and 6-hour duration storm events.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1171.jpg]
 
   Reference: NOAA Atlas 14, Volume 2, Version 3
   (C)   Allowable release rate.
      (1)   The allowable release rate of storm water from development, re-
development, and new construction shall not exceed the storm water runoff rate
from the land area in its present condition as described in §
151.21.
      (2)   If more than one detention basin is involved in the development of
the area upstream of the limiting restriction, the allowable release rate from
any one detention basin shall be in direct proportion to the ratio of its
drainage area to the drainage area of the entire watershed upstream of the
restriction.
   (D)   Drainage system overflow design. The drainage system shall have
adequate capacity to safely and adequately convey the storm water runoff from
all upstream tributary areas through the development under consideration for a
storm of 100-year design return period calculated on the basis of the upstream
land in its present state of development. This conveyance shall be accomplished
without damage to structures and improvements. An allowance, equivalent to the
reduction in flow rate provided, shall be made for existing detention basins in
upstream tributary areas; provided, evidence of its construction can be shown.
   (E)   Determination of storage volume.
      (1)   For areas up to and including 20 acres, the Rational Method may be
used to determine the required volume of storm water storage. The procedure is
described in the HERPICC Storm Water Design Manual. Other design methods as
described below in division (E)(2) below may also be used.
      (2)   For areas larger than 20 acres, methods other than the Rational
Method for determining runoff and routing of storm water shall be used to
determine the storage volume required to control storm water runoff. The
procedures or methods used shall be proven methods in the practice of
hydrology, subject to approval of the Board. The Advanced Interconnect Pond and
Channel Routing, SWMM, HEC-HMS, NRCS TR-20 (Project Formulation, Hydrology),
and NRCS TR-55 (Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds) models are approved by
the Board for appropriate use in analysis of the runoff and routing of storm
water.
   (F)   General detention/retention basin design requirements.
      (1)   Basins shall be constructed to temporarily detain the storm water
runoff which exceeds the maximum peak flow rate authorized by this chapter. The
volume of storage provided in these basins, together with the storage as may be
contained in other on-site facilities, shall be sufficient to control excess
runoff from the 100-year storm.
      (2)   The following design principles shall be observed.
         (a)   The maximum volume of water stored and subsequently released at
the design release rate shall not result in storage duration in excess of 48
hours unless additional storms occur within the period.
         (b)   The maximum planned depth of storm water stored should generally
not exceed five feet.
         (c)   All earthen storm water detention facilities shall be separated
by not less than 50 feet from any building or structure to be occupied.
         (d)   Debris and safety screens having a maximum opening of six inches
shall be provided for any pipe or opening to prevent children or large animals
from crawling into the structures.
         (e)   Earthen dams that are a component of storm water facilities
shall be designed and constructed according to sound engineering and
construction principals. Dams shall not be designed to overtop in a 100-year
storm, unless approved by the Board.
         (f)   Danger signs shall be mounted at appropriate locations to warn
of deep water and possible flooding conditions during storm periods or other
dangers that exist. Fencing shall be provided if deemed necessary by the Board.
         (g)   Outlet control structures shall be designed to operate as simply
as possible and shall require little or no maintenance and/or attention for
proper operation. They shall limit discharges into existing or planned
downstream channels or conduits so as not to exceed the predetermined maximum
authorized peak flow rate at maximum storage levels.
         (h)   Emergency overflow facilities such as a weir or emergency
spillway shall be provided for the release of exceptional storm runoffs or in
emergency conditions should the normal discharge devices become inoperative.
The overflow facility shall be of a design that its operation is automatic and
does not require manual attention. It shall be designed to be stable and resist
erosion in exceptional storm runoffs. It shall direct all flows to the
receiving outlet without passing through any off-site property.
         (i)   Grass or other suitable vegetative cover shall be provided
throughout the entire earthen basin area. Grass shall be maintained in healthy
condition and should be cut regularly at approximately monthly intervals during
the growing season or as required.
         (j)   Debris and trash removal and other necessary maintenance shall
be performed on a regular basis to assure continued operation in conformance to
design.
         (k)   A report shall be submitted to the Board describing:
            1.   The proposed development;
            2.   The current land use conditions;
            3.   The method of hydraulic and hydrologic analysis used,
including input and output files; and
            4.   A maintenance plan clearly outlining the party responsible for
the permanent ownership and maintenance of the drainage system and all periodic
maintenance requirements.
   (G)   Detention basin design requirements. Provisions shall be incorporated
to facilitate complete interior drainage of detention basins, to include the
provisions of natural grades to outlet structures, longitudinal and transverse
grades to perimeter drainage facilities, paved gutters or the installation of
subsurface drains.
   (H)   Retention basin design requirements. The following additional design
principals shall be observed.
      (1)   Basins designed with permanent pools or containing permanent ponds
shall have a water area of at least one-half acre. If fish are to be maintained
in the pond, a minimum depth of approximately ten feet shall be maintained over
at least 25% of the pond area. The remaining pond area shall have no extensive
shallow areas, except as required by division (H)(3) below.
      (2)   In excavated ponds, the underwater side slopes in the pond shall be
stable with a maximum slope of two and one-half to one. In the case of valley
storage, natural slopes may be considered to be stable.
      (3)   A safety ledge four to six feet in width is required and must be
installed in all ponds approximately 18 to 24 inches below the permanent water
level. The slope above the safety ledge shall be stable, with a maximum slope
of three to one, and of a material such as stone or riprap which will prevent
erosion due to wave action.
      (4)   Periodic maintenance is required in ponds to control weed growth.
The pond shall also be designed to provide for the easy removal of sediment,
which will accumulate during periods of pond operation.
      (5)   For emergency use, basin cleaning or shoreline maintenance,
facilities shall be provided or consideration given for auxiliary equipment to
permit emptying and drainage.
      (6)   Dry fire hydrants and drafting basins for fire protection may be
requested for installation in areas where fire protection water supplies are
not available.
   (I)   Parking lot storage. Paved parking lots may be designed to provide
temporary detention storage of storm water on all or a portion of their
surfaces. Depth of storage must be limited to a maximum depth of six inches so
as to prevent damage to parked vehicles and so that access to parked vehicles
is not impaired. Ponding should, in general, be confined to those positions of
the parking lots farthest from the area served.
   (J)   Facility financial responsibilities. The construction and maintenance
cost of storm water control systems and facilities as required by this chapter
shall be accepted as part of the cost of land development. If general public
use of the facility can be demonstrated, negotiations for public participation
in the cost of the developments may be considered.
   (K)   Facility maintenance and ownership responsibilities.
      (1)   Facility maintenance responsibility and permanent ownership of
detention/retention facilities during construction and thereafter shall be the
responsibility of the land developer/owner, unless the responsibility and
ownership is formally dedicated to and accepted by a public body.
      (2)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving
more than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds, and shall be determined before the drainage plans are approved.
      (3)   Storm water detention and retention basins may be dedicated to the
county or other unit of local government for permanent ownership and
maintenance providing:
         (a)   The county or governmental unit is willing to accept
responsibility;
         (b)   The facility has been designed and constructed according to all
applicable provisions of this chapter;
         (c)   All improvements have been constructed, approved and accepted by
the county for the land area served by the drainage basin;
         (d)   Dry detention basins shall have all slopes, bottom of the basin
and area above the high water line seeded and stabilized; and shall have the
high water line not closer than 50 feet to any development boundary; and
         (e)   The Board has accepted as-built documentation and all conditions
of any permits have been met.
   (L)   Inspections. All public and privately owned detention and retention
storage facilities must be made available for inspection by representatives of
the Board not less often than once every two years and as necessary following
large storm events. If the Board determines that maintenance is needed or that
the original objectives are not being realized, a certified inspection report
covering the physical conditions, available storage capacity and operational
condition of key facility elements will be provided to the owner.
   (M)   Corrective measures. If the Board finds deficiencies, the person or
entity responsible for the storm water control facilities will be required to
take the necessary measures to correct the deficiencies. If the person or
entity responsible fails to do so, the Board will undertake the work and
collect from the responsible party, using lien rights if necessary.
   (N)   Joint development of control systems. Storm water control facilities
may be planned and constructed jointly by two or more developers as long as
compliance with this chapter is adhered to and future operation, maintenance
and ownership are assured.
   (O)   Installation of control systems. Runoff and erosion control facilities
shall be installed as soon as possible during the course of site development.
Detention/retention basins shall be designed with an additional 6% of available
capacity to allow for sediment accumulation resulting from development and to
permit the basin to function for reasonable periods between cleanings. Basins
should be designed to collect sediment and debris in specific locations so that
removal costs are kept to a minimum.
   (P)   Detention facilities in floodplains. If detention storage is provided
within a floodplain, only the net increase in storage volume above that which
naturally existed on the floodplain shall be credited to the development. No
credit will be granted for volumes below the elevation of the regulatory flood
at the location unless compensatory storage is also provided.
   (Q)   Off-site drainage provisions. When the allowable runoff is released
into an area that is susceptible to flooding, the developer may be required to
construct appropriate storm drains through the area to avert increased flood
hazard. The requirement of off-site drains shall be at the discretion of the
Board.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED
§ 151.41  CHANGES IN DRAINAGE PLANS.
   Any revision, significant change or deviation in the detailed plans and
specifications, after formal approval by the Board or Highway Department, shall
be filed with and approved by the Board or Highway Department as applicable
prior to implementing, installing or constructing the revision or change. After
approval, copies of the revisions or changes shall be attached to the original
plans and specifications and also shown on as-built plans to be filed after
completion of construction.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.42  AS-BUILT DOCUMENTATION OF DRAINAGE PLANS.
   (A)   A written certification prepared and certified by an Indiana licensed
professional engineer or professional surveyor, stating that all improvements
were installed in conformance with the principles and standards of design
outlined in this chapter and with the approved drainage plan on file with the
Board, shall be submitted to the County Surveyor within 30 calendar days of
completion of construction. The Board shall accept no portions of the drainage
system to be maintained by the Board or other publicentity for ownership or
maintenance responsibility unless this written certification is submitted.
   (B)   In lieu of this written certification, plans detailing the as-built
elevations and dimensions of the installed components may be submitted. As-
built plans may use the approved drainage plan drawings as a base. These as-
built plans shall include all pertinent data relevant to the completed storm
drainage system and shall include:
      (1)   Pipe sizes and pipe materials;
      (2)   Invert elevations;
      (3)   Top rim elevations;
      (4)   Lengths of all pipe structures;
      (5)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume; and
      (6)   Written certification that all improvements were installed in
conformance with the principles and standards of design outlined in this
chapter.
   (C)   All such submitted plans shall be reviewed for compliance within 30
calendar days after submission. If notice of non-compliance is not given within
30 calendar days of submission of the plans, the plans shall be construed as
approved and accepted.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.43  CERTIFICATES AND BONDING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   For all work approved under §
151.22, within seven days after completion of construction, the applicant shall
submit to the Highway Department a written statement that all work was
completed in conformance with the approved plan. Such work will be reviewed by
the Highway Department for compliance and acceptance. If notice of
noncompliance is not given by the Highway Department within 14 days of
submission of said written statement, the work shall be construed as approved
and accepted by the Highway Department.
   (B)   Upon the completion of any dedicated public improvements and
installations, and prior to the acceptance thereof for public maintenance by
the applicable government entity, the applicant shall provide:
      (1)   A three-year maintenance bond which shall:
         (a)   Run to the applicable government entity having a legal
responsibility for the maintenance of the public improvements and
installations;
         (b)   Be in an amount equal to 20% of the cost of the public
improvements and installations, or an amount determined by the Board;
         (c)   Be with surety satisfactory to the Board; and
         (d)   Warrant the workmanship and all materials used in the
construction, installation and completion of the public improvements and
installations to be of good quality, and have been constructed and completed in
a workmanlike manner in compliance with the principles and standards of design
outlined in this chapter and the satisfactory plans and specifications thereof.
         (e)   Provided that, for a period of three years after the public
improvements and installations have been accepted for public maintenance by any
governmental unit or agency thereof, the subdivider will at his or her own
expense make all repairs to the improvements and installations, or the
foundations thereof, which may become necessary by reason of improper
workmanship or materials; however, the repairs are not to include any damage to
the improvements and installations resulting from forces or circumstances
beyond the control of the subdivider.
   (C)   The Highway Department, at its discretion, may waive the requirement
of this section for work approved under §
151.22.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.44  DETERMINATION OF IMPACT DRAINAGE AREAS.
   (A)   The Board is authorized, but is not required, to classify certain
geographical areas as impact drainage areas and to enact and promulgate
regulations, which are generally applied thereto. In determining impact
drainage areas, the Board shall consider such factors as topography, soil type
and capacity of existing regulated drains and distance from adequate drainage
facility. The following areas shall be designated as impact drainage areas,
unless good reason for not including them is presented to and approved by the
Board:
      (1)   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the State Department of
Natural Resources;
      (2)   Land within 75 feet of each bank of any regulated drain; and
      (3)   Land within 75 feet of the center line of any regulated drain tile.
   (B)   Land where there is not an adequate outlet, taking into consideration
the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an impact drainage
area by resolution of the Board. Special requirements for development within
any impact drainage area shall be included in the resolution.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.45  ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW REGULATED DRAINS.
   When the Board determines it is necessary to establish a new regulated
drain, each developer must provide the necessary information and meet the
requirements of the State Drainage Code, I.C. 36-9-27, as amended, for the
establishment of a new regulated drain. The Board shall determine the necessary
easements for adequate maintenance of any new regulated drain in the event that
greater than statutory easements are needed.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
FEES AND PENALTIES
§ 151.51  FEES.
   (A)   The Board shall establish a schedule of reasonable fees to defray the
administrative costs connected with processing and hearing proposed drainage
plans, administrative appeals and other official actions taken under this
chapter. An applicant shall pay the specified fee upon the filing of an
application for drainage plan approval.
   (B)   The Board or Highway Department may require, in addition to a filing
fee, the payment of a fee to cover the costs associated with obtaining an
independent review and analysis of a proposed drainage plan. The Board or
Highway Department may not set this additional fee at an amount greater than is
reasonably necessary to defray the expenses incurred by the Board or Highway
Department in obtaining the services.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
§ 151.52  VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, other than a violation of
§
151.22 occurs or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written
complaint. The complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be
filed with the Board. The Board shall properly record the complaint and
immediately investigate. If acts elicited by the investigation are sufficient
to establish a reasonable belief that a violation has occurred on the part of
the party investigated, the Board shall provide written notice to any alleged
violator and thereafter may file or cause to be filed a complaint against the
person as provided by this chapter and in accordance with law.
   (B)   Whenever a violation of  §
151.21 occurs or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written
complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be
filed with the Knox County Auditor. The Knox County Commissioners shall
properly record such complaint and immediately investigate. If acts elicited by
such investigation are sufficient to establish a reasonable belief that a
violation has occurred on the part of the party investigated, the Knox County
Commissioners shall provide written notice to any alleged violator and
thereafter may file or cause to be filed a complaint against such person as
provided by this chapter and in accordance with law.
   (C)   Any buildings erected, raised or converted, or land or premises used
in violation of this chapter or regulation thereof is hereby declared to be a
common nuisance and the owner thereof shall be liable for maintaining a common
nuisance, which may be restrained or enjoined or abated in any appropriate
action or proceeding.
   (D)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, realtor, agent or other person
who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains the violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
   (E)   The Board, or the Knox County Commissioners with respect to violations
of §
151.22, may institute a suit or injunction in the Circuit or Superior Court of
the county to restrain any person from violating this chapter. If the Board or
the Knox County Commissioners are successful in its suit, the respondent shall
bear the costs of the action including reasonable attorney’s fees.
   (F)   The Board or the Knox County Commissioners with respect to violations
of  §
151.22 may institute a suit for mandatory injunction directing a person to
remove a structure erected in violation of this chapter or to make the same
comply with its terms. If the Board or the Knox County Commissioners are
successful in its suit, the respondent shall bear the costs of the action
including reasonable attorney’s fees.
   (G)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county or other unit of
local government from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
   (H)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements, including but not necessarily limited to, violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with this chapter, shall be
fined a sum of at least $500, but not more than $2,500 for the first violation
of this chapter, and not more than $7,500 for a second or subsequent violation
of this chapter.
   (I)   Each calendar day a violation remains uncorrected it is a distinct and
separate ordinance violation subject to an additional citation and fine in the
amount prescribed.
(Ord. 8-2014, passed 7-21-2014)
CHAPTER 152:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Scope
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Authority
   
152.004   Definitions
   
152.005   Establishment of districts
   
152.006   Interpretation
   
152.007   Administration and enforcement
General Development Standards
   
152.020   Public and essential uses
   
152.021   Accessory uses
   
152.022   Lot sizes, setback areas, encroachments and height exceptions
   
152.023   Temporary uses
   
152.024   Performance standards
   
152.025   Sewage disposal
   
152.026   Landscaping and screening
   
152.027   Conflicting ordinances and interpretation
Use Districts
   
152.040   A-1, Exclusive Agricultural District
   
152.041   A-2, Non-Exclusive Agricultural District
   
152.042   R-A, Rural Residence District
   
152.043   R-1, Single-Family Residence District
   
152.044   R-2, Mixed Residence District
   
152.045   C-1, Local Business District
   
152.046   C-2, Central Business District
   
152.047   C-3, General Business District
   
152.048   I-1, Light Industrial District
   
152.049   I-2, General Industrial District
Site Sketches and Development Plans
   
152.060   General requirements
   
152.061   Site sketches
   
152.062   Development plans
   
152.063   Approval and decision criteria
   
152.064   Minor modifications
Planned Unit Developments
   
152.075   General requirements
   
152.076   Review procedure
   
152.077   Minor modifications
   
152.078   Abandonment or expiration
   
152.079   Permits and enforcement
   
152.080   Covenants and maintenance; financial guarantees
Developments of Broad Significance
   
152.095   General provisions
   
152.096   Procedure
Manufactured Homes
   
152.110   Manufactured homes (not located in manufactured home parks)
   
152.111   Manufactured home parks
Parking and Loading
   
152.125   General requirements
   
152.126   Parking standards
   
152.127   Off-site parking facilities
   
152.128   Minimum off-street parking space requirements
   
152.129   Loading requirements
   
152.130   Vehicle stacking areas
   
152.131   Accessible parking for physically challenged persons
   
152.132   Parking and loading space specifications
Signs and Advertising Structures
   
152.145   Purpose and intent
   
152.146   Definitions
   
152.147   General provisions
   
152.148   Exemptions
   
152.149   Prohibited signs
Wireless Communication Facilities
   
152.160   Purpose and general provisions
   
152.161   Definitions
   
152.162   Permitted telecommunication facilities
   
152.163   Telecommunication facilities as an accessory use
   
152.164   Telecommunication facilities as a conditional use
   
152.165   Setback, placement, lighting and insurance
   
152.166   Interference with public safety telecommunications
   
152.167   Locating communication facilities on public land
   
152.168   Removal
   
152.169   Existing telecommunication facilities
   
152.170   Temporary telecommunication facilities
Coal and Other Mineral Extraction
   
152.185   General provisions for coal extraction
   
152.186   Standards for coal extraction
   
152.187   Modifications for coal extraction
   
152.188   General provisions for other mineral extraction
   
152.189   Standards for other mineral extraction
   
152.190   Modifications for other mineral extraction
Oil and Gas Production
   
152.205   General
Non-Conforming Uses
   
152.220   General provisions
   
152.221   Non-conforming lots of record
   
152.222   Non-conforming structures
   
152.223   Non-conforming uses of structures, land or structures and land in
combination
   
152.224   Repairs and maintenance
   
152.225   Uses under conditional use (provisions not non-conforming uses)
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
152.240   Establishment and jurisdiction
   
152.241   Administration
   
152.242   Conditional uses
   
152.243   Development standards for conditional uses
   
152.244   Variances
   
152.245   Appeals of administrative and staff decisions
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  SCOPE.
   This document is written as a county-wide zoning ordinance for the county.
It is intended that all cities and towns included in the county are to be
regulated by this chapter. This includes incorporated and unincorporated
communities.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.002  PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
      (1)   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience
and general welfare;
      (2)   Encourage employment of the principles of good design in community
development;
      (3)   To enhance economic development and growth;
      (4)   Securing adequate light, air, convenience of access and safety from
fire, flood and other dangers;
      (5)   Lessening or avoiding congestion in public ways;
      (6)   Implementing the comprehensive plan; and
      (7)   Otherwise accomplishing the purposes of I.C. 36-7-4.
   (B)   To that end, this chapter does the following:
      (1)   Regulates the location, height, bulk, area and use of buildings,
structures and land;
      (2)   Regulates the size of yards, setbacks, courts and other open
spaces;
      (3)   Provides for adequate off-street parking spaces;
      (4)   Guides the density and distribution of population and the orderly
use and intensity of use of land for residences, trades, industries, public
activities and other specified purposes;
      (5)   Provides for reasonable standards assuring the use and enjoyment of
property to all;
      (6)   Creates districts of a kind, character, number, shape and area as
may be necessary to carry out those purposes, and establishing the boundaries
thereof;
      (7)   Establishes a Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (8)   Provides for the method of administration, amendment and
enforcement of this chapter; and
      (9)   Establishes penalties for the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.003  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4,
the 600 Series.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.004  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use located on the same lot as a principal use, related to
and clearly subordinate to the principal use.
   ADVERTISING STRUCTURE. Any off-premise notice, advertisement, billboard,
pictorial or otherwise, used as an outdoor display for the purpose of
advertising the property or the establishment or enterprise, including goods
and services. These structures are considered conditional uses in every
district, except R-1, in which they are not permitted. Furthermore, these
structures shall meet all building and sign requirements. The term ADVERTISING
STRUCTURE under this chapter does not include a "sign", as defined later in
this section.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure utilized for the conduct of farming or
agricultural operations, but not a dwelling.
   AGRICULTURE. The production, keeping, cultivation or maintenance, for sale,
lease or personal use, of plants and animals useful to humans, including, but
not limited to, forages and sod crops; grains and seed crops; dairy animals and
dairy products; poultry and poultry products; livestock, including beef cattle,
sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules or goats or any mutations or hybrids
thereof, including the breeding and grazing of any or all of the animals; bees
and apiary products; fur animals; llamas, chinchilla, ostrich and other
specialty animals; fish for commercial sale (aquaculture); trees and forest
products; fruits of all kinds; vegetables; nursery, floral, ornamental and
greenhouse products; or lands devoted to a soil conservation or forestry
management program.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance, now known or hereinafter invented, for use or
designed for navigation of or flight in the air or outer space, including
missiles.
   AIRPORT. Any area, which is used or intended to be used either publicly or
privately for the taking off and landing of aircraft, including helicopters;
and any appurtenant areas which are used or intended to be used for airport
buildings or facilities, including open spaces, taxiways and tie-down areas.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way, other than a street, road, sidewalk or easement, that
provides secondary access to an abutting property.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building, structure or land used for the
dispensing, sale or offering for retail sale of vehicular fuels, oils or
accessories. This use may include lubrication or washing of automobiles and
replacement or installation of minor parts and accessories; but does not
include major repair work such as motor replacement, body and fender repair, or
spray painting. (See GARAGE, AUTOMOBILE REPAIR.) It may also include a
convenience store as an accessory use.
   BED AND BREAKFAST UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable
unit used or intended to be used for compensation by transients for living and
sleeping, but not for cooking or eating purposes.
   BED AND BREAKFAST USE.
      (1)   An operator-occupied residence that:
         (a)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
         (b)   Has no more than eight guest rooms;
         (c)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
         (d)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
calendar days to a particular guest.
      (2)   This term does not include hotels, motels, boarding houses, tourist
homes or food service establishments.
   BLOCK. A unit of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public land, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses or any other barrier to the
continuity of development.
   BOARD. The County Area Board of Zoning Appeals or the Vincennes City Board
of Zoning Appeals, whichever jurisdiction applies.
   BOARDING OR LODGING HOUSE. A dwelling or part thereof in which for
compensation, lodging and meals are provided to at least three, but not more
than 30 persons other than transients.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building or structure that is located on the same lot
as a principal building and is clearly subordinate to the principal building.
   BUILDING AREA. The total ground floor area of all buildings on a lot,
excluding open areas or terraces, unenclosed porches not more than one story
high, and architectural features that project no more than two feet in width.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. With respect to a building, means the vertical distance
from the lot ground level to the highest point for a flat or shed roof; to the
deck line for a mansard roof; and to the mean height between eaves and ridges
for a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
   BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of goods,
merchandise or services; the maintenance or operation of offices or
recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   CAMP GROUND. A parcel of land used or intended to be used for temporary
occupancy by campers, or for temporary occupancy by or of recreational
vehicles, travel trailers, tents, cabins or other temporary accommodations.
   CAR WASH. A structure, or portion thereof, containing commercial facilities
for washing automobiles, using production line methods with a chain conveyor,
blower, steam cleaning device or other mechanical devices; and shall include a
manually operated car wash facility when the operation is equivalent in
intensity to a mechanized car wash.
   CEMETERY. Land dedicated or used for the burial of the dead, including
columbaria and mausoleums when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundaries of the premises.
   CHILD OR ADULT CARE HOME. A residential structure in which at least six
children or other individuals at any time receive care from a provider, not
including those for whom the provider is a parent, stepparent, guardian,
custodian or other relative; but no more individuals may receive care than the
maximum allowed by appropriate state regulations.
   CHILD CARE SERVICE. A service conducted as a "home occupation" by an
individual that provides for the care, health, safety and supervision of not
more than five children at any one time, including his or her own minor
children, for less than 24 continuous hours in his or her own residence.
   CHURCH. Any church, temple, chapel or other building dedicated or used for
public worship, ceremonies or other organized religious services
   CITY. The City of Bicknell, Indiana, or the City of Vincennes, Indiana.
   CLINIC. An establishment in which patients are admitted on an outpatient
basis by one or more physicians, dentists, other medical personnel,
psychologists or social workers and where patients are not usually lodged
overnight.
   CLUB. An establishment operated for social, recreational or educational
purposes that is open only to members and not to the general public.
   COAL EXTRACTION. This definition includes the activities associated with
both surface and underground coal mining or coal extraction, including other
preparations customarily done at a mine site or as part of a coal mining or
coal extraction activity.
   COMMERCIAL CENTER. A group of four or more separately operated commercial
establishments, planned, developed, owned and managed as a unit, with common
off-street parking provided on the property.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. Establishments primarily engaged in providing
recreational services to the general public, including auditorium, theater,
bowling alley, billiard rooms, dance studios and amusement facilities.
   COMMISSION. The County Area Plan Commission.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zone district, but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, could promote the
public health, safety, convenience, prosperity or general welfare. The uses may
be permitted in zone districts as CONDITIONAL USE, if specific provision for
the CONDITIONAL USE is made in this chapter.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment not exceeding 3,500 square feet
in area offering for sale prepackaged food products, household items,
newspapers and magazines, along with other convenience items such as
sandwiches, donuts, salads, coffee and fountain drinks.
   COUNTY. Knox County, Indiana.
   DETACHED BUILDING. A building that has no structural connection with another
building.
   DEVELOPMENT OF BROAD SIGNIFICANCE. A land use, development or project having
the potential to affect the county in a significant manner. Effects include,
but are not limited to, significant impacts on traffic, the environment, future
development patterns and economic development. Examples of the uses include,
but are not limited to, amphitheaters, race tracks, landfills, theme parks or
other large recreational developments and prisons.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. A food service establishment where food is consumed on
the premises outside of fully enclosed buildings or structures.
   DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT. Any portion of a building or structure from
which business is transacted, or is capable of being transacted, directly with
customers located in a motor vehicle, which is usually left running, during the
business transactions.
   DWELLING. A building or part of a building that is used primarily as a place
of abode, including mobile home, as defined herein, but not including a hotel,
motel, lodging house, boarding house or tourist home.
   DWELLING, FARM. A single-family dwelling, located upon a farm and occupied
or used by the owner, farm tenant or other person employed thereon.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied by one
family exclusively.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied by two
families. A DUPLEX DWELLING has one family unit above the other and a DOUBLE
DWELLING has one family unit beside the other.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by three or more
families.
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or part of a dwelling used by one family as a
place of abode.
   EXISTING USE. The use of a lot or structure at the time of enactment of this
chapter.
   FAMILY. A group of individuals, not necessarily related by blood, marriage,
adoption or guardianship, living together in a dwelling unit as a single
housekeeping unit under a common management plan based on an intentionally
structured relationship providing organization and stability. This definition
does not include a group occupying a hotel, motel, club, adult care home, child
care home, group home, nursing home, dormitory or a fraternity or sorority
house.
   FARM. An area used for agricultural operations, including truck gardening,
forestry, the operation of a tree or plant nursery or the production of
livestock and poultry, except as defined under "farm, confinement feeding" or
the processing of farm products produced on the farm by the resident owner or
tenant; but it does not include commercial or custom slaughtering. (See
AGRICULTURE.)
   FARM, CONFINEMENT FEEDING. Any operation involving the production of
livestock or fowl or related operations, indoors or outdoors, wherein more than
100 head of livestock or 5,000 fowl are kept within buildings or structures or
in paved or unpaved feed lots, wherein five square feet or less of feed lot
area is provided per laying hen, or eight square feet or less per hog weighing
225 pounds or less, or 15 square feet or less per lamb or ewe, or 50 square
feet or less per sow, or 50 square feet or less per feeder steer, or 100 square
feet or less per dairy cow; provided that, this definition shall not apply to
operations involved with the processing of products of CONFINEMENT FEEDING
OPERATIONS.
   GARAGE, AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. Any building, structure or land used for major
repair work or equipment of automobiles, including, but not limited to, motor
replacement, body and fender repair or spray painting.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building, or a portion of a main
building on the same lot as a dwelling, used for the housing of vehicles of the
occupants of the dwelling, including carports.
   GROUP HOME. A residential facility, licensed by the appropriate state
agency, that provides residential services for not more than eight
developmentally disabled persons, none of whom has a history of violent or
antisocial behavior, and staff, not to exceed two at any one time, as are
necessary to adequately manage the home.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted within a dwelling or appropriate
accessory building and participated in solely by members of the family, which
use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the property for
residential purpose and does not change the character thereof. No commodity
shall be sold upon the premises, except that which is produced thereon or
essential and incidental to the services offered. In no event shall a two-
station barber shop, two-station beauty shop, restaurant, animal hospital,
commercial warehouse or similar uses including junk yards, or major automotive
repair be construed as a HOME OCCUPATION.
   HOSPITAL. An institution or facility where the ill or injured may receive
medical, surgical or psychiatric treatment, nursing care and the like.
   IMPROVED BLOCK. Any block that contains at least three existing lots or
parcels, each containing a legally established building. For the purposes of
this definition, a BLOCK consists of one side of the street, not interrupted by
any streets. In any case where a proposed building site has no buildings within
300 feet in either direction on the same side of the street, the property shall
be considered to be in an unimproved block.
   INDUSTRIAL USE, GENERAL. Manufacturing, processing, extraction, heavy
repairing, dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw material,
manufactured products or wastes, in which operations, other than
transportation, may be performed in either open or closed areas.
   INDUSTRIAL USE, LIGHT. Manufacturing, processing, extraction, heavy
repairing, dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw materials,
manufactured products or wastes, in which all operations, other than
transportation, are performed entirely within enclosed buildings and for which
all loading and unloading facilities are enclosed.
   INSTITUTIONAL USE. Fraternal, philanthropic and charitable uses, private
clubs, lodges, social centers and athletic clubs, religious establishments,
museums.
   JUNK. Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material, or debris, whether or not
stored, for sale or in the process of being dismantled, destroyed, processed,
salvaged, stored, baled, disposed or other use or disposition. This definition
includes, but is not limited to, unregistered or inoperable vehicles, tires,
vehicle parts, equipment, paper, rags, metal, glass, building materials,
household appliances, machinery, brush, wood and lumber.
   JUNK YARD. Any area, lot, land, parcel, building or structure, or part
thereof, used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase, sale, salvage
or disposal of junk.
   KENNEL. A place primarily for keeping a total of four or more dogs or other
small animals that are ordinarily kept as pets and are at least four months
old.
   LOT. A parcel, tract or area of land accessible by means of a street or
place. It may be a single parcel separately described in a deed or plat which
is recorded in the office of the County Recorder, or it may include a
combination of parcels when adjacent to one another and used as one. In
determining lot area and boundary lines, no part thereof within the limits of a
street shall be included.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot or parcel of land abutting upon two or more streets at
their intersection, or upon two parts of the same street forming an interior
angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or a through lot.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets, or a lot fronting on both a street and a watercourse or lake.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area that is represented by the
building area together with any other physical improvements including, but not
limited to, decks, patios and driveways.
   LOT GROUND LEVEL (ELEVATION).
      (1)   For a building having walls abutting (that is, generally parallel
to and not more than five feet from) one street only, means the elevation of
the sidewalk at the center of the wall abutting the street;
      (2)   For a building having walls abutting more than one street, means
the average of the elevations of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls that
face streets; and
      (3)   For a building having no wall abutting a street, means the average
level of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
   LOT LINE.
      (1)   FRONT. For an interior lot, the line marking the boundary between
the lot and the abutting street; and for a corner lot or a through lot, means
the lines marking the boundaries between the lot and the abutting streets on
each side.
      (2)   REAR. The lot line that is opposite the front lot line and farthest
from it, except that for a triangular or other irregularly shaped lot, it means
the line ten feet long, parallel to the front lot line, and wholly within the
lot, that is farthest from the front lot line.
      (3)   SIDE. A lot boundary line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the side lot lines as measured along the
front lot line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16, has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. § 5402 as it existed on 1-1-2003, as follows: “A structure,
transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight
body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected
on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis
and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating,
air-conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except that the term
shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph
except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer
voluntarily files a certification required by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development and complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C.
§§ 5401 et seq.; and except that the term shall not include any self-propelled
recreational vehicle.” According to this definition, MANUFACTURED HOME is the
term used under this chapter for a structure built entirely in the factory
after 6-15-1976, under the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Act of 1974, according to standards administered by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (commonly known as the HUD Code) or
an older model structure that has obtained the above mentioned certification.
The term MANUFACTURED HOME under this chapter does not include a “mobile home”
or a “recreational vehicle”, as defined later in this section.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land containing two or more spaces with
required improvements and utilities that are leased for the long-term placement
of manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURING. The manufacturing, processing, fabrication or repairing of
any goods, product or materials where no continuous process involved will
produce fire hazard, electrical disturbance, noise, vibration, odor, air
pollution, heat, glare, water pollution or waste matter which will disturb or
endanger any neighboring property and where the operations and storage are
enclosed.
   MECHANICAL UNITS. Mechanical units located on the outside of buildings,
including but not limited to, generators, walk-in freezers, heating,
ventilation and air conditioning units.
   MINING or MINERAL EXTRACTION. The extraction of minerals, including solids,
such as ores, sand and gravel; liquids, such as crude petroleum; and gases,
such as natural gas, from the ground, excluding coal. (See COAL EXTRACTION.)
This definition includes the activities associated with mining or mineral
extraction, including milling, such as crushing, screening, washing and
flotation; and other preparations customarily done at a mine or excavation site
or as part of a mining or excavation activity.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in
the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more
in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein; except that the term shall not include any self-propelled
recreational vehicle. Under this chapter, MOBILE HOME is the term used for
manufactured homes produced before 6-15-1976, prior to the Federal Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974, and have not been certified to comply
with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq. (the HUD Code)
as required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. These MOBILE
HOMES were built according to voluntary industry standards that may not have
been enforced by various states. The term MOBILE HOME under this chapter does
not include a “manufactured home” or a “recreational vehicle” as defined
elsewhere in this section.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land containing two or more spaces, with
required improvements and utilities, that are leased for the long-term
placement of mobile homes.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the
time of passage of this chapter which does not conform after the passage of
this chapter with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
Existing improvements which do not meet required lot size, setback lines,
height, intensity, off-street parking and loading, signs and other regulations
for the district in which they are currently situated are not NON-CONFORMING
USES, as defined herein.
   OPERATING AUTHORITY. Any private utility company that owns, operates or
maintains any electric, gas, water, sewer, telecommunications or any other
utilities serving or located within a given area. In the case of public
improvements, this includes any entity of a county, city, town or other unit of
government that owns, operates and maintains the utilities or any roads,
streets, parks, schools or other public systems serving or located within a
given area.
   PERMITTED or PERMITTED USE. Uses, structures or other items that are allowed
as specified under the terms of this chapter that typically require an
improvement location permit or conditional use permit, unless the use and
context of the term as used in this chapter denotes otherwise.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, company, association, society, firm,
partnership, joint stock company or any organized group of persons whether
incorporated or not, or any agent, representative or instrumentality thereof.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in providing services
for a person or his or her personal goods or apparel. These uses include, but
are not limited to, laundry, dry cleaning, beauty or barber shops, diaper
service and shoe repair.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area planned for one or more uses as an
integrated and harmonious unit displaying desirable and fitting site design
characteristics, the use requirements of this chapter being generally
applicable to the area as a whole rather than to the individual components.
   PLAT. A map or chart that shows a division of land and is intended to be
filed for record.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located is conducted, including a building that is attached to such
a building in a substantial way, such as by a roof (with respect to residential
uses, it means the main dwelling).
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. An office used by members of a recognized profession
such as architects, artists, dentists, engineers, surveyors, lawyers,
musicians, physicians and surgeons.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RECYCLING. The process by which waste products are reduced to raw materials
and transformed into new and often different products.
   RECYCLING FACILITY. A lot or parcel of land, with or without buildings, upon
which used materials are collected, separated or processed for shipment or on
which recycling occurs.
   RETAIL USE, BIG BOX. A single retail establishment containing 75,000 square
feet or more.
   RETAIL USE, GENERAL. Establishments primarily engaged in the sale of goods
or the provision of services to the general public; including but not limited
to hotels, package liquor stores, taverns, nightclubs, restaurants and catering
establishments; drugstores, department stores, variety stores, newsstands,
book, stationery and office supply stores; paint, wallpaper, furniture, carpet,
interior decorating, upholstering and furrier stores; candy, ice cream,
jewelry, florist, gift, antique, art, music, toy and hobby shops; quick print
shops, mail and package services; and storage, processing and/or conditioning
when incidental to any of these uses.
   SCHOOL. Any building or part thereof that is designed, constructed or used
for education or instruction in any branch of knowledge.
   SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY. Any school licensed by the state and that meets the
state requirements for elementary education.
   SCHOOL, PAROCHIAL. A school supported and controlled by a church or
religious organization.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE. Any building or group of buildings the use of which meets
state requirements for elementary, secondary or higher education, and which
does not secure the major part of its funding from any governmental agency.
   SCHOOL, PROFESSIONAL OR VOCATIONAL. A secretarial, trade or business school
or college; or a school conducted as a commercial enterprise for teaching
instrumental music, dancing, barbering, hair dressing or drafting; or for
teaching industrial or technical arts. This definition excludes schools that
are publicly owned or those owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious, charitable or non-profit organization.
   SCHOOL, SECONDARY. Any school licensed by the state and that is authorized
to award diplomas for secondary education.
   SETBACK. The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance on a lot
between the exterior face of a building and the front, side or rear lot line.
For lots or tracts with property lines running to the center line of the
street, the SETBACK line is measured from the street right-of-way line, not the
lot or property line in the center of the street.
   SIGN. Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise, used as an
outdoor display for the purpose of advertising the property or the
establishment or enterprise, including goods and services, upon which the sign
is exhibited. The term SIGN under this chapter does not include an "advertising
structure", as defined earlier in this section.
   SPECIAL SERVICES. Establishments or institutions providing social or human
services, including, but not limited to, child care centers, day care centers,
kindergartens, nursing homes and neighborhood social centers.
   STREET. A right-of-way that is established by a recorded plat or deed to
provide the principal means of access to abutting property.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street, which primarily collects traffic from local
streets and feeds it to the arterial street network. COLLECTOR STREETS provide
circulation between neighborhood areas.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street used primarily for access to abutting properties,
usually residential property.
   STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL. A street, which feeds and distributes moderately
high volume traffic to principal arterials. ARTERIAL STREETS may provide
controlled access to abutting property.
   STREET, PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A street that serves high volume traffic
corridors and connects major population centers and traffic generators, with
access limited or controlled.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A street established for or dedicated to the public use.
   STRUCTURAL CHANGE. A substantial change or repair, excluding normal and
usual repair, in a supporting member of a building, such as a bearing wall or
partition, column, beam or girder, or in an exterior wall or the roof.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected that requires location on or in
the ground or attachment to something having a location on or in the ground.
   TOURIST HOME. A building in which not more than five guest rooms are used to
provide or offer overnight accommodations to transient guests for compensation.
   TOWN. The Town of Bruceville, or Decker, or Edwardsport, or Monroe City, or
Oaktown, or Sandborn, or Wheatland, Indiana, as may be applicable.
   TRANSITIONAL SETBACK. An area that acts as a buffer between two land uses of
different intensity and compatibility.
   TRUCK GARDEN. A farm or garden devoted to the cultivation of vegetables for
the market.
   TRUCK SERVICE CENTER. Any building, structure or land used for the
servicing, care, repair or equipment of trucks over one ton; or where the
vehicles are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land or buildings are designed,
arranged or intended or for which land or buildings are occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. Permission granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter to depart from the development standards of
this chapter.
   VISIBILITY OR SIGHT TRIANGLE. A triangular space at street intersections,
free from any obstruction to vision as specified in §
152.022.
   WORKER HOUSING. Communal living quarters containing a community kitchen and
living room as well as sleeping quarters (which may be individual) for persons
employed on the premises on which the housing is located.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building that is open and
unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.005  ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The area within the jurisdiction of the Commission is hereby divided
into the following zoning districts:
District Abbreviation District Designation
District Abbreviation District Designation
A-1                   Exclusive Agriculture
A-2                   Non-Exclusive Agriculture
R-A                   Rural Residential
R-1                   Single-Family Residential
R-2                   Mixed Residential
C-1                   Local Business
C-2                   Central Business
C-3                   General Business
I-1                   Light Industry
I-2                   General Industry
 
   (B)   The official zoning maps of the county, together with any explanatory
text thereon, are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference. The maps
are available for public inspection in the Area Plan Office during regular
business hours.
   (C)   The subdivision or division of land is allowed in all zoning districts
subject to the provisions and requirements of
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.006  INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Meanings and intent. All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in this chapter shall be construed according to the purpose and
intent set out in §
152.002.
   (B)   Headings, illustrations and text. In case of any difference of meaning
or implication between the text of this chapter and any heading, drawing,
table, figure or illustration, the text shall control. In the event that any
sections of the text appear to conflict with each other, the executive director
is hereby authorized to interpret the intent of the chapter. The executive
director's interpretation may be appealed to the Board.
   (C)   Lists and examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of
items or examples that use terms such as "including", "such as" or similar
language are intended to provide examples, not to be exhaustive lists of all
possibilities.
   (D)   Computation of time.
      (1)   General. All references to "days" are to the county working days
unless otherwise expressly stated. The time in which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If the last
day is a Saturday, Sunday or holiday observed by the county, that day shall be
excluded.
      (2)   Date of decision. The date of a decision or recommendation of the
Commission or the Board of County Commissioners shall be the date of the public
meeting or hearing at which the decision or recommendation is made. If the
administrative official makes the decision, the date of the decision shall be
the date specified on the property owner's notification letter in the
application file.
   (E)   References to other regulations, publications and documents. Whenever
reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation or document,
that reference shall be construed as referring to the most recent edition of
the regulation (as amended), resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation or
document or to the relevant successor document, unless otherwise expressly
stated.
   (F)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or another officer to perform an act or duty, that
provision shall be construed as authorizing the department head or officer to
delegate that responsibility to others over whom they have authority.
   (G)   Technical and non-technical terms. Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
   (H)   Public officials and agencies. All public officials, bodies and
agencies to which references are made are those of the county, unless otherwise
expressly stated. Whenever reference is made to a public official's ordinance
or name of a public agency, that reference shall be construed as referring to
the most up-to-date ordinance or agency name, or to the relevant successor
official or agency.
   (I)   Mandatory and discretionary terms. The words "shall", "will" and
"must" are mandatory. The words "may" and "should" are advisory and
discretionary terms.
   (J)   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows: "and" indicates that all
connected items, conditions, provisions or events apply; and "or" indicates
that one or more of the connected items, conditions, provisions or events may
apply.
   (K)   Tenses and plurals. Words used in one tense (past, present or future)
include all other tenses, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
   (L)   Minimum requirements. The standards of this chapter are minimum
requirements. The issuance of any permit, certificate or approval in accordance
with the standards and requirements of this chapter shall not relieve the
recipient of responsibility for complying with all other applicable
requirements of any other county, state or federal agency.
   (M)   Conflicting provisions.
      (1)   Conflict with state or federal regulations. If the provisions of
this chapter are inconsistent with those of the state or federal government,
the more restrictive provision shall control, to the extent permitted by law.
      (2)   Conflict with other local regulations. If the provisions of this
chapter are inconsistent with one another, or if they conflict with provisions
found in other adopted ordinances or regulations of a county, city, town or
other unit of local government, the more restrictive provision will control. No
text amendment, rezoning, zoning variance or condition attached to any form of
development approval shall have the effect of nullifying, abrogating or
diminishing the provisions of any other local ordinance.
      (3)   Conflict with private easements, agreements or covenants. This
chapter is not intended to abrogate, annul or otherwise interfere with any
private  easement,  agreement,  covenant,  restriction or other legal private
relationship. The Planning Department is responsible for enforcing this
chapter; it does not enforce private agreements, easements, covenants or
restrictions.
   (N)   Interpretation of district boundaries. Where uncertainty exists as to
the boundaries of districts as shown on the official zoning maps, the following
rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow those center lines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following section lines,
corporate limit lines or platted lot lines shall be construed as following
those lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be midway between the main tracks.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to
follow those shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line shall be
construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or
other bodies of water shall be construed to follow those center lines.
      (5)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (N)(1) through (4) above shall be so construed.
      (6)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (N)(1) through (5) above, the Board shall interpret
the district boundaries.
      (7)   The vacation or relocation of right-of-way and lot lines shall not
affect the location of district boundaries; provided that, whenever any right-
of-way is vacated by proper authority, the districts adjoining each side of the
vacation shall be extended according to the reversion rights of the abandoned
right-of-way.
      (8)   When the precise location of a town or city corporation line is in
doubt, the Commission may determine the location of the boundary as defined by
the appropriate authority or jurisdiction and revise the zone maps accordingly,
without conducting a public hearing. This only affects the district boundary
line and not the corporate limit line.
      (9)   In the event of annexation of lands to a town or city, the zoning
classification existing at the time of annexation shall remain until changed by
amendment procedures.
      (10)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, the Board, upon appeal, shall
interpret the applicable regulations for either portion of the lot not to
exceed 50 feet beyond the district boundary line into the remaining portion of
the lot.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.007  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administration. The administration of this chapter shall be in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.
   (B)   Commission's duties. The Commission is hereby authorized to perform
those duties and functions specified in I.C. 36-7-4-400 et seq. and any other
applicable section of the Indiana Code along with other responsibilities as may
be assigned to it, from time to time, by the County Commissioners. The
Commission shall adopt written rules of procedure for the administration of the
affairs of the Commission, its staff, and for investigations and hearings.
   (C)   Board's duties. The Board is hereby authorized to perform those duties
and functions specified in I.C. 36-7-4-900 et seq. and other applicable
sections of the Indiana Code. The Board shall adopt written rules of procedure
for the administration of the affairs of the Board, its staff, and for
investigations and hearings.
   (D)   Staff duties.
      (1)   The executive director of the Commission is hereby designated as
the "administrative official" responsible for administration of this chapter.
      (2)   The staff shall have the authority to take those lawful actions
necessary to enforce the terms of this chapter on behalf of the Commission and
the Board. These authorities shall include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following:
         (a)   The authority to take any action to correct any violations of
this chapter;
         (b)   The authority to review applications and issue permits;
         (c)   The authority to perform inspections of all lands located within
the jurisdiction of the Commission in order to enforce this chapter:
            1.   To execute inspections, the staff shall have the right to
enter upon any premises, land or structure, at a reasonable time, for the
purpose of carrying out their duties in the enforcement of the regulations
contained within the chapter; and
            2.   To make application to any Judge of the Circuit or Superior
Court of the county, for the issuance of an administrative search warrant
should the owner or occupant of the land, premises or structure refuse to
permit entry to undertake inspections.
         (d)   The authority to issue a stop work order for any activity, which
is commenced without a permit or any activity being carried out in a manor that
violates this chapter; and
         (e)   The authority to perform those duties specified in I.C. 36-7-4-
700 et seq. and other applicable sections of the Indiana Code as well as any
other duties that may be assigned to them from time to time by the Commission,
Board or legislative body.
   (E)   Improvement location permits.
      (1)   No structure, land or premises shall be occupied or used for
excavation, demolition, construction, alteration or any other purpose
whatsoever, either in whole or in part, without an improvement location permit,
except for the raising of crops.
      (2)   Improvement location permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the staff authorize only the use, occupancy,
arrangement and construction set forth in such approved plans and applications,
and no other use, occupancy, arrangement or construction is permitted. Any use,
occupancy, arrangement or construction, which is inconsistent with that
authorized by the permit shall be deemed a violation of the chapter.
      (3)   Any improvement location permit issued by the staff for the
occupancy or use of any structure, land or premise, unless otherwise stipulated
on the face of the permit shall expire 12 months after the date of its
granting, unless the permit holder or his or her agent has put into effect the
use for which the permit was issued.
      (4)   If the staff determines that the construction or development under
any permit is not in compliance with this chapter, the permit may be revoked by
providing written notice to the permit holder or any agent of the permit
holder. The permit shall be considered revoked upon service of the written
notice of revocation upon the permit holder or his or her agent. Any use or
occupancy of the structure, land or premises in contravention to this chapter
following the revocation of the permit shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
      (5)   Any decision by the staff relating to this section may be appealed
to the Board in accordance with the rules and regulation concerning
administrative appeals. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent an
applicant or holder of a permit from applying to the Board for a variance or
conditional use as provided in this chapter.
      (6)   No approval for an improvement location permit shall be granted
until all application fees and other information required by this chapter have
been properly submitted to the staff.
   (F)   Violations.
      (1)   Common nuisance.
         (a)   Any structure erected, raised or converted, or land or premises
used in contravention of this chapter, is a common nuisance and shall be deemed
a violation of this chapter.
         (b)   Any landowner or possessor of any structure, land or premises
deemed to have violated this chapter shall be liable for maintaining a common
nuisance.
      (2)   Violator. Any person, who commits, participates in, assists in or
maintains a violation of this chapter may each be found guilty of a separate
offense and suffer the penalties provided for in this chapter.
      (3)   Filing complaint.
         (a)   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs or is alleged to
have occurred, any person may file a written complaint.
         (b)   The written complaint shall be filed with the administrative
official and shall set forth the causes and basis of the violation.
         (c)   The administrative official shall properly record the complaint
and undertake an immediate investigation of the complaint.
         (d)   If upon investigation, it is determined by the administrative
official that a reasonable belief exist that a violation of this chapter has
occurred, the administrative official shall provide written notice to the
alleged violator and thereafter may file or caused to be filed a complaint
against the violator as provided for in this chapter and under state law.
   (G)   Amendments.
      (1)   Ordinance text. The text of this chapter may be amended or
partially repealed from time to time as provided in I.C. 36-7-4-607 or as
amended thereafter. Notice shall be given to interested parties and the hearing
conducted in accordance with the Commission's rules of procedure.
      (2)   Official zoning maps. The zoning map may be changed from time to
time as provided in I.C. 36-7-4-608 or as amended thereafter. Notice shall be
given to interested parties and the hearing conducted in accordance with the
Commission's rules of procedure.
      (3)   Written commitments. As specified in I.C. 36-7-4-615, when
considering an amendment to the official zoning maps, the Commission may
require or allow written commitments that restrict the use(s) and/or
developmental standards of the proposed zoning district in accordance with the
following.
         (a)   1.   Written commitments may be initiated by the Commission, the
petitioner or by the legislative body.
            2.   The legislative body or petitioner shall refer the new
commitments or modifications to the Commission for consideration.
            3.   The Commission must address the new commitment during the
scheduled public hearing on the rezoning matter, or at their next available
meeting, in order to take and consider public input on the new commitment.
            4.   After the public hearing, the Commission must agree or
disagree with the action of the new commitment.
            5.   The legislative body then makes the final approval or
disapproval at their next available meeting.
         (b)   After the initial rezoning, the Commission may modify or
terminate written commitments relating to the development standards after
notice is provided in accordance with the Commission's rules of procedure. The
modification may be initiated by the owner of the property, by the Commission,
or by the legislative body.
         (c)   Modifications or termination of commitments involving permitted
uses may be allowed only through the same procedure as the initial rezoning. In
approving, modifying or terminating commitments, the Commission shall consider
the factors listed in division (G)(3)(d) below.
         (d)   The written commitments shall be recorded in accordance with the
I.C. 36-7-4-615. Recorded commitments are binding on the owner of the parcel, a
subsequent owner of a parcel, and any person who acquires an interest in the
parcel. Any rezoning ordinance amending the official zoning maps that includes
written commitments shall not be effective until the commitments are recorded.
The commitments must be recorded within 90 calendar days after the legislative
body adopts the rezoning ordinance, unless the Commission grants an extension.
In the event the commitments are not recorded within the specified time, the
rezoning ordinance shall not take effect and shall be considered null and void.
         (e)   An improvement location permit shall not be issued for any
property subject to written commitments unless the use and/or development on
the property complies with the recorded written commitments.
         (f)   Any violations associated with written commitments are subject
to enforcement and penalties established under this chapter.
      (4)   Considerations. In preparing and considering proposals to amend or
partially repeal the text of this chapter, or to make changes in the official
zoning maps, the Commission and legislative body shall pay reasonable regard
to:
         (a)   The comprehensive plan;
         (b)   Current conditions in the character of current structures in use
in each district;
         (c)   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
         (d)   The conservation of property values throughout the jurisdiction;
and
         (e)   Responsible development and growth.
   (H)   Severability.
      (1)   Should any provision of this chapter be held invalid or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, all other provisions
shall none the less continue in full force and effect.
      (2)   Should any court of competent jurisdiction hold the application of
any provision of this chapter to be invalid as to a particular structure, land
or premises, then and in that event, that holding shall not effect the
application of that particular provision of the chapter to any occupancy or use
on any other structure, land or premises not specifically included within the
judgement.
   (I)   Articles and subheadings. The headings of the several articles and
subdivisions of this section are inserted solely for the convenience of
reference and shall have no further meaning, force or effect.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012) Penalty, see §
152.999
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 152.020  PUBLIC AND ESSENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Essential uses and services are permitted in all zoning districts.
These include such uses as overhead or underground gas, electrical, telephone,
telegraph, steam, fuel or water transmission or distribution systems;
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including, poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm and police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and similar accessories in connection
therewith. This definition excludes buildings and wireless communication
facilities, as defined in §§
152.160 through
152.170.
   (B)   Essential public uses that are required to be located in such a manner
as to provide efficient public services are permitted in all zoning districts.
These include such uses as police stations, fire stations, public or
neighborhood park and recreational facilities and public schools.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.021  ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Incidental accessory uses. Incidental items are allowed without an
improvement location permit in all districts and may be installed in any yard;
provided that they are clearly incidental and of customary size and type;
subject to compliance with any development and performance standards contained
in this chapter or other applicable regulations. All accessory uses not
determined to be incidental will require an improvement location permit.
Examples of incidental items include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Bird baths and bird houses;
      (2)   Fences and walls up to six feet in height, except in front setback
areas in residential zoned districts;
      (3)   Fences and walls up to 42 inches in height in front setback areas
in residential zoned districts;
      (4)   Lampposts;
      (5)   Mailboxes;
      (6)   Nameplates;
      (7)   Utility installations for local service (such as poles, lines,
hydrants and telephone booths);
      (8)   Retaining walls; and
      (9)   Trees, shrubs, plants, flowers and other customary landscaping
materials.
   (B)   Agricultural accessory uses.
      (1)   Accessory agricultural uses shall include all residential accessory
uses and those accessory uses and activities customarily associated with
agricultural operations, as determined by the executive director; subject to
compliance with any development and performance standards contained in this
chapter.
      (2)   Agricultural buildings and farm-related structures shall be allowed
with the required permits on all parcels in agricultural zoned districts, even
if the subject parcel does not contain a principal structure or use.
   (C)   Residential accessory uses. The following uses and structures shall be
allowed with the required permits as accessory uses and structures to principal
residential uses:
      (1)   Private garages, carports and off-street parking areas;
      (2)   Gate houses and guard houses;
      (3)   Patios, cabanas, porches, gazebos and incidental household storage
buildings;
      (4)   Recreational and play facilities for the use of residents
including, but not limited to, tennis courts, swimming pools and hot tubs;
      (5)   Accessory dwelling units;
      (6)   Accessory retail sales in a multi-family building in a multi-family
zoning district; and
      (7)   Other necessary and customary uses determined by the executive
director to be appropriate and subordinate to the principal use of the
property, subject to compliance with any development and performance standards
contained in this chapter.
   (D)   Commercial and industrial accessory uses. The following uses and
structures shall be allowed with the required permits as accessory uses and
structures to principal commercial and industrial uses:
      (1)   Dwelling units for security or maintenance personnel;
      (2)   Fences and walls over six feet in height;
      (3)   Gates and guard houses;
      (4)   Off-street parking areas;
      (5)   Communication antennas and support structures;
      (6)   Recreation areas and facilities for the use of employees;
      (7)   Cafeterias, dining halls and similar food services when operated
exclusively for the convenience of employees, clients or visitors to the
principal use;
      (8)   Day care facilities when operated exclusively for the convenience
of employees of the principal use;
      (9)   Gift shops, news stands and similar commercial activities operated
exclusively for the convenience of employees, clients or visitors to the
principal use; and
      (10)   Other necessary and customary uses determined by the executive
director to be appropriate, incidental and subordinate to the principal use on
the lot, subject to compliance with any development and performance standards
contained in this chapter.
   (E)   Institutional and civic accessory uses. The following uses and
structures shall be allowed with the required permits as accessory uses and
structures to principal institutional and civic uses:
      (1)   Refreshment stands and food and beverage sales located in uses
involving public assembly;
      (2)   Cafeterias, dining halls and similar food services when operated
primarily for the convenience of employees, residents, clients, patients or
visitors to the principal use;
      (3)   Gift shops, news stands and similar commercial activities operated
primarily for the convenience of employees, residents, clients, patients or
visitors to the principal use;
      (4)   Recreation areas and facilities for the use of employees; and
      (5)   Other necessary and customary uses determined by the executive
director to be appropriate, incidental and subordinate to the principal use on
the lot, subject to compliance with any development and performance standards
contained in this chapter.
   (F)   Time of establishment. No accessory use shall be established and no
accessory structures shall be allowed on the subject parcel until after all
required permits and approvals for the principal use or activity have been
obtained. No accessory structure shall be used unless the principal structure
on the lot is also being used. Agricultural buildings such as barns and silos
located in agricultural districts are exempt from this provision.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.022  LOT SIZES, SETBACK AREAS, ENCROACHMENTS AND HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Reduction. The minimum lot size requirement for a particular site may
be reduced by the Commission in conjunction with proposed subdivisions filed
for approval under
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Establishing dimensions. Setback lines established in recorded
subdivisions establish the dimensions of setback areas in the subdivisions;
except when the setback lines may be less restrictive than those required in
the applicable district under this chapter.
   (C)   Average setbacks, dimensions. In improved blocks, as defined in §
152.004, the average setbacks or height of the buildings determines the
allowable dimensions of such in the block.
   (D)   Projection, mechanical units. No part of any structure or its
associated mechanical units shall project into a required front setback area,
except the following:
      (1)   An eave, cornice, overhang, awning, balcony or bay window not
exceeding four feet; provided that the encroachment shall not protrude closer
than 20 feet to a front lot line;
      (2)   The ordinary projection of belt courses, sills, lintels, chimneys
and other similar ornamental and architectural features not exceeding 18
inches; provided that the encroachment shall not protrude closer than 20 feet
to a front lot line; and
      (3)   Unenclosed, uncovered steps, entrance platforms, terraces or
landings not over 18 inches above grade level and not to project a distance in
excess of ten feet.
   (E)   Projection, structures. No part of any structure shall project into a
required side or rear setback area, except the following:
      (1)   Mechanical units associated with the principal structure only;
      (2)   An eave, cornice overhang, awning, balcony or bay window not
exceeding four feet; provided that the encroachment shall not protrude closer
than five feet to any side or rear lot line;
      (3)   The ordinary projection of belt courses, sills, lintels, chimneys
and other similar ornamental and architectural features not exceeding 18
inches; provided that the encroachment shall not protrude closer than five feet
to any side or rear lot line; and
      (4)   Unenclosed, uncovered steps, entrance platforms, terraces or
landings not over 18 inches above grade level.
   (F)   Transitional setback buffers.
      (1)   Transitional setback buffers are intended to separate different
land uses from each other and are intended to eliminate or minimize potential
nuisances such as dirt, litter, noise, glare of lights, signs and unsightly
buildings or parking areas; or to provide spacing to reduce adverse impacts of
noise, odor or danger from fires or explosions. Plantings provided in
connection with transitional setback buffers also assist in reducing air
pollution hazards.
      (2)   Wherever a commercial or industrial use is located adjacent to a
residential use, there shall be a transitional setback buffer of at least 25
feet.
      (3)   No transitional setback buffer is required whenever the adjacent
land has the same zoning classification as the property being developed.
      (4)   Transitional setback buffers shall be located at the perimeter of
the building site for any given use.
      (5)   The transitional setback buffer shall be used only for fences,
walls or landscaping according to standards outlined elsewhere in this section.
      (6)   Transitional setback buffer requirements shall apply to all new
development and re-development.
   (G)   Fences, walls and the like.
      (1)   Ornamental fences, walls and structural screens may be permitted in
any required side or rear setback area in accordance with the accessory
structure height requirements of the respective zone district. Ornamental
fences, walls and structural screens may be permitted in any required front
setback area in accordance with the accessory structure height requirements of
the respective zone district; provided that no fence, wall or structural screen
in a front setback area in residential zoned districts shall be allowed to
exceed 42 inches in height. The height shall be determined by measurement
perpendicular from the nearest ground level. All fences, walls and structural
screens are subject to the requirements of §
152.021.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the
erection or maintenance of an open fence in connection with agricultural or
recreational use or a security fence in non-residential districts.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to retaining walls.
   (H)   Storage. No portion of any required setback area shall be used for the
storage of motor vehicles, trailers, airplanes, boats or parts thereof or of
any rubbish, garbage, junk, tent or building materials, except during
construction and in accordance with the terms of this chapter, for a period of
48 or more consecutive hours in any one-week period.
   (I)   Intersection visibility.
      (1)   Nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in a
manner as to impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet and ten
feet above the center line grades of intersecting streets and drives. The
"visibility triangle" is hereby established as follows.
         (a)   For corner lots, the triangle is defined as the area formed by
the street center lines and a line connecting points 75 feet for local and
collector streets, and 150 feet for arterial streets, as measured from the
intersection of the street center lines.
         (b)   Upon the occasion when a driveway or alley intersects with a
local or collector street, the visibility triangle is formed by the center
lines of driveways, alleys and streets and a line connecting points 40 feet for
driveways and alleys and 75 feet for local and collector streets, as measured
from the intersection of the center lines.
         (c)   Upon the occasion when a driveway or alley intersects with an
arterial street, the visibility triangle is formed by the center lines of
driveways, alleys and streets and a line connecting points 65 feet for
driveways and alleys and 150 feet for arterial streets, as measured from the
intersection of the center lines.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to official warning
signs or signals necessary to the public safety.
   (J)   Access and frontage. Every building hereafter erected or moved shall
be located on a lot with frontage and access on a public street, or with
frontage and access to an approved private street or access easement, and all
buildings shall be so located on lots as to provide for safe and convenient
access, on-site circulation, fire protection and required off-street parking.
   (K)   Units. In any district, no more than one principal structure and its
customary accessory uses shall be located on a single lot; except that
principal structures designed and platted as a single unit under single
ownership and control, such as a multi-family residential project, business
shopping center or combined industrial operations, are permissible on a single
lot.
   (L)   Height. The height limitations contained in the zone district
regulations do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, parapets, silos and farm
structures, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys, towers or other
appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level; provided
that, the appurtenances are not intended for human occupancy. Such
appurtenances as towers of mechanical or structural necessity with a roof area
equal to or in excess of 50% of the average floor area of the building shall be
considered a part of the height of the building.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.023  TEMPORARY USES.
   Within any zone district, no temporary use shall be used or arranged or
designed to be used, except in conformance with the following rules and time
limits:
   (A)   Temporary office, model home or model apartment and incidental signs
thereof, both incidental and necessary for the sale, rental or lease of real
property in the zone district. Maximum use limited to 18 months;
   (B)   Construction trailers as a temporary office during the period of
construction and development. Maximum use limited to 18 months;
   (C)   Construction trailers, including modular or manufactured structures
used as a temporary office during construction; provided that the following
criteria are met:
      (1)   The construction trailer is situated at the construction site and
is occupied only by persons directly engaged in the supervision of the
construction of the structure or development;
      (2)   All setback requirements of the district in which the construction
trailer is located are met;
      (3)   All health and sanitary regulations of the County Health Department
and the State Board of Health are met;
      (4)   Safe temporary connection to the electrical utility system is made
in compliance with the applicable Building Code; and
      (5)   A validly approved improvement location permit has been issued for
the subject structure or development.
   (D)   Concrete batching plant, both incidental and necessary to a
construction project. Maximum use limited to 18 months;
   (E)   Temporary building or yard for construction materials and equipment,
both incidental and necessary to construction in the zone district. Maximum use
limited to 18 months;
   (F)   Parking lot designated for a special event in a zone district. Maximum
use limited to 30 calendar days;
   (G)   Bazaars, carnivals, rummage or garage sales and similar temporary
uses. Maximum use limited to ten calendar days;
   (H)   Sale of Christmas trees, outdoor tent theater, sale of seasonal fruits
and vegetables from roadside stands, tent sales;
   (I)   Parking of recreational vehicles for visitation. Maximum use limited
to seven calendar days;
   (J)   Emergency or temporary parking or stopping of a recreational vehicle
is permitted on any street or highway for not longer than 24 hours; provided
that the parking or stopping shall be subject to any prohibitions or
limitations imposed by the traffic and parking regulations for the street or
highway;
   (K)   Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, a recreational
vehicle may be temporarily parked or stored in the open in connection with the
following:
      (1)   A public health program sponsored by a public health department;
      (2)   A program sponsored by any unit of government; and
      (3)   A carnival or other public affair or function authorized by proper
authority.
   (L)   Other similar uses deemed temporary by the executive director and
attached with a time period, conditions and safeguards as the executive
director may deem necessary.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.024  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. Operations considered by the Commission to be governed by §§
152.185 through
152.190 shall only need to conform to the requirements set forth for water
quality and air quality.
   (B)   Air quality. Any activity that releases smoke, particulate matter,
gases or contaminants into the atmosphere shall comply with all appropriate
federal and state regulations.
   (C)   Water quality. Any activity that discharges any substance to a
watercourse or water body shall comply with all appropriate federal, state and
local regulations.
   (D)   Noise.
      (1)   At the lot or property line, the noise generated by any use or
operation (other than transportation facilities or temporary construction work)
shall not exceed:
         (a)   The noise standard for that land use as specified on the table
below for a cumulative period of more than 30 minutes in any hour;
         (b)   The noise standard plus five decibels for a cumulative period of
more than five minutes in any hour;
         (c)   The noise standard plus 15 decibels for a cumulative period of
more than one minute in any hour; and
         (d)   The noise standard plus 20 decibels or the maximum measured
ambient level, for any period of time.
      (2)   The noise measurements shall be performed using a sound level meter
according to the requirements of the American National Standards Institute.
      (3)   If possible, the ambient noise level shall be measured at the same
location along the property line with the alleged offending noise source
inoperative. If for any reason the alleged offending noise source cannot be
shut down, the ambient noise must be estimated by performing a measurement in
the same general area of the source, but at a sufficient distance so that the
noise from the source is at least ten decibels below the ambient in order that
only the ambient level be measured.
Noise Levels
Land Use Category              Time Period            Average Level (dba)
1- or 2-family dwelling        7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 55
                               10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 45
Multi-family dwelling          7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 55
                               10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 50
Commercial or light industrial 7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 65
                               10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 60
General industrial             Anytime                75
 
   (E)   Hazardous materials and waste. All activities for hazardous materials
and wastes shall comply with all local, state and federal regulations, as well
as the appropriate Health Department regulations and Fire Department
regulations. For all areas within the corporate limits of the City of Vincennes
or outletting into the Vincennes city sewer systems, all such activities shall
comply with the City of Vincennes pre-treatment ordinance, if applicable.
   (F)   Electrical disturbance. Devices that radiate radio-frequency energy
shall be so operated as not to cause interference with any activity carried on
beyond the boundary line of the property upon which the device is located.
   (G)   Vibration. No persistent vibration shall be permitted for an extended
period of time so as to cause a significant tremor measurable without
instruments at the lot line.
   (H)   Glare. No direct or reflected glare, whether produced by floodlights,
high temperature processes such as combustion or welding, or other processes so
as to be visible from any boundary line of property on which the same is
produced shall be permitted. Sky-reflected glare from buildings or portions
thereof shall be so controlled by reasonable means as are practical to the end
that the sky-reflected glare will not inconvenience or annoy persons or
interfere with the use and enjoyment of property in and about the area where it
occurs.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.025  SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   Every building hereafter constructed and every use hereafter established
shall have adequate sewage disposal as specified in this section.
   (A)   Uses served by public or semi-public sewer systems or by package
treatment plants approved by the State Department of Environmental Management
are permitted; provided that the uses comply with all applicable lot size for
the zone district and all other applicable requirements of this chapter,
subject to the following requirements apply.
      (1)   The County Health Department (KCHD) or the appropriate operating
authority shall review and provide the Planning Department with acceptable
assurance that the proposed system or any existing receiving sewer has the
capacity and capability to serve the development.
      (2)   If the system is private, the KCHD shall provide the Planning
Department with acceptable assurance that an effective maintenance program for
the system is in place. The maintenance program shall include a method for
automatic payment of fees for regular maintenance of the system.
   (B)   Uses served by community on-site disposal systems shall be subject to
the following requirements.
      (1)   The community system shall meet all requirements of the State
Department of Environmental Management and State Department of Health (ISDH).
      (2)   The KCHD shall provide the Planning Department with acceptable
assurance that the system has the capacity and capability to serve the
development.
      (3)   The KCHD shall provide the Planning Department with acceptable
assurance that an effective maintenance program for the system is in place. The
maintenance program shall include a method for automatic payment of fees for
regular maintenance of the system.
   (C)   Uses served by individual on-site disposal systems shall be subject to
the following requirements.
      (1)   The system shall have a permit from the KCHD. The applicant shall
provide a copy of the permit to the Planning Department.
      (2)   If construction, development or any structural changes affecting
the size of an existing structure are to take place on a parcel with an
existing system, the applicant shall provide proof to the KCHD that the system
exists, is functioning properly and is capable of adequately serving the
proposed use. The KCHD shall notify the Planning Department that the proof has
been provided by the applicant.
      (3)   The septic system, including any fingers, trenches, mounds or
similar features, shall be located on the same lot as the use it serves.
      (4)   The KCHD shall provide to the Planning Department a copy of a
report from a certified soil scientist stating that the parcel can accommodate
a septic system capable of adequately disposing of the waste from the use
anticipated on the property.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other requirement of this chapter, the minimum lot
size requirement can be modified as follows for parcels served by individual
on-site disposal systems.
      (1)   The minimum lot size must be increased if the parcel contains soil
types, water bodies, steep slopes or other conditions which indicate that a
larger land area is desirable to contain a sewage disposal system as determined
and recommended by the KCHD.
      (2)   The minimum lot size may be reduced if the applicant provides
evidence that soil conditions, topography or other similar factors clearly
indicate that the parcel can accommodate a properly functioning septic system
with sufficient capacity for the use anticipated. The evidence must be reviewed
and approved by the KCHD followed by approval as a variance by the Board for
existing parcels, or by approval of the Commission in conjunction with a
proposed subdivision filed under
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.026  LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING.
   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas within the corporate
limits of the City of Vincennes. Landscaping requirements in those areas must
comply with the provisions and procedures as outlined in the appropriate
sections of the land use code of the City of Vincennes.
   (A)   Purpose. Landscaping and screening devices are required for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To reduce dust, glare and erosion;
      (2)   To provide shade;
      (3)   To assist in screening objectionable light, views and noises;
      (4)   To visually soften buildings and parking areas;
      (5)   To aid and improve air quality; and
      (6)   To provide privacy.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Landscaping plantings shall not be placed so as to interfere with
site drainage.
      (2)   Landscape plantings shall not be placed in any public utility
easement unless specifically permitted on the approved site plan.
      (3)   Plantings shall not be placed where they may interfere with the
maintenance of sanitary or storm structures, fire hydrants or water valves, or
any other overhead or below ground public utility.
      (4)   Landscape planting shall not be placed within any public street
right-of-way unless previously approved by the appropriate legislative body.
      (5)   The sight "visibility triangle" requirements outlined in §
152.022 shall be maintained at all times.
      (6)   All disturbed areas shall be restored with sod or seed unless
specifically approved otherwise.
      (7)   In all districts the adjacent right-of-way shall be sodded or re-
seeded unless specifically approved otherwise.
   (C)   Standards for commercial and industrial landscaping.
      (1)   Commercial and industrial landscapes must follow the general
provisions outlined in this section.
      (2)   Plantings should contain a variety of specimens using plant
specimens native to the state.
      (3)   Native deciduous trees: Basswood, Beech, Cherry, Crabapple, Green
Ash, Honey Locust, Maple, Oak, Tulip Tree, Walnut; (eight feet to ten feet high
and one and one-half inches caliper minimum at the time of planting).
      (4)   Native evergreen trees: Virginia Pine, White Pine, Eastern Red
Cedar, Northern White Cedar, Eastern Hemlock, Cypress, (four feet to five feet
high at the time of planting).
      (5)   Native shrubs: Service Berry, Black Chokeberry, Buttonbush,
Ninebark, (one-third of expected mature height at the time of planting).
      (6)   Other native landscaping materials found in the publication
Landscaping with Plants Native to Indiana published by The Nature Conservancy
and not listed above are also allowed. Copies of this publication are available
upon request at the Area Plan Office.
      (7)   Additional non-native species of plants may be allowed in the
landscape so long as they are a non-invasive species.
      (8)   Consideration should be taken when selecting trees that will
eventually overhang parking lots, homes, swimming pools or other sensitive
areas. Trees that bear fruit and nuts are not desirable in these locations.
   (D)   Standards for residential landscaping.
      (1)   Residential landscapes must follow the general provisions outlined
in this section.
      (2)   In residential districts or uses the entire front yard, side yard
and rear yard shall be sodded or re-seeded.
      (3)   Using plant specimens native to the state is encouraged.
   (E)   Refuse containers. No refuse containers or storage areas shall be
located between any principal structure and either its front or corner side lot
line.
   (F)   Maintenance. All landscaping shall be properly maintained. Dead plant
materials shall be replaced in a timely manner, and landscaped areas shall be
kept free of weeds and debris. Failure to maintain landscaping properly shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.027  CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed as additional requirements
to standards required elsewhere in this chapter or by other local ordinances.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
USE DISTRICTS
§ 152.040  A-1, EXCLUSIVE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The A-1 agricultural district is designated for agricultural
uses and is intended to protect rural areas from urban encroachment.
Residential development is limited; this district is not intended as a large-
lot residential zone. It is the intent of this chapter to allow the
continuation of existing agricultural operations and to protect the use and
value of both agricultural and non-agricultural land within the jurisdiction of
the Commission. This district includes substantial areas of high-quality soils,
well suited to farming, where little or no urbanization has taken place and is
not likely to take place in the future.
   (B)   Limitation on rezoning. In order to accomplish the purpose of this
district, rezoning to another classification, other than for a development of
broad significance or a planned unit development shall be subject to the
following criteria:
      (1)   Development patterns in the area have changed to the extent that
the property is likely to become urbanized; and
      (2)   The uses permitted in the new zoning district will not interfere
nor conflict with neighboring agricultural operations.
   (C)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the A-
1 district, subject to the standards set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Butcher shop or custom meat processing;
      (2)   Farm;
      (3)   Farm dwelling of 720 square feet or larger;
      (4)   Manufactured home used as a farm dwelling which is at least 24 feet
wide and contains 950 square feet or larger, which shall be measured by using
the outside dimensions of the structure excluding the towing mechanism;
      (5)   Greenhouses and plant nurseries;
      (6)   Home occupation;
      (7)   Kennel;
      (8)   Roadside produce sales stand;
      (9)   Oil and gas production (subject to §
152.205);
      (10)   Accessory uses normally associated with permitted agricultural
operations; and
      (11)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only if the Board
issues a conditional use permit as provided for in §§
152.240 through
152.245:
      (1)   Advertising structures;
      (2)   Airport;
      (3)   Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquefied fertilizer, commercial
storage and distribution;
      (4)   Auction sales yard;
      (5)   Bait sales (live);
      (6)   Bed and breakfast use;
      (7)   Bottled gas, storage and distribution;
      (8)   Camp ground;
      (9)   Cemetery;
      (10)   Church;
      (11)   Commercial seed processing operations;
      (12)   Contractor’s storage yard;
      (13)   Country club or golf course;
      (14)   Dwelling, single-family, of 720 square feet or larger;
      (15)   Farm equipment sales and service;
      (16)   Farm, confinement feeding;
      (17)   Hospital;
      (18)   Institutional use;
      (19)   Manufactured home as a temporary dwelling unit, in accordance with
§§
152.110 and
152.111;
      (20)   Manufactured home as a permanent dwelling of 720 square feet or
larger in accordance with §§
152.110 and
152.111 (other than those specifically listed above in division (C) as
permitted uses);
      (21)   Mortuaries and funeral services;
      (22)   Riding stable;
      (23)   Rural business or services;
      (24)   Seasonal hunting or fishing lodge;
      (25)   Second dwelling unit;
      (26)   Slaughterhouse;
      (27)   Special services;
      (28)   Worker housing for persons employed on the premises;
      (29)   Fences and walls over six feet in height in side and rear setback
areas only; and
      (30)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (E)   Development standards. The following property development standards
shall apply to all land and structures in the A-1 district.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot size shall be one acre.
      (2)   Building height.
         (a)   The maximum height for any principal building or structure,
other than an agricultural structure, is 35 feet.
         (b)   The maximum height for accessory buildings shall be as regulated
in §
152.021.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front.
            1.   Lots abutting a principal or minor arterial shall have a
minimum front setback of 50 feet.
            2.   Lots abutting a collector or local street shall have a minimum
front setback of 40 feet.
         (b)   Side. The minimum side setback shall be ten feet.
         (c)   Rear. The minimum rear setback shall be ten feet.
      (4)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 30%.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading. As regulated in §§
152.125 through
152.132.
      (6)   Signs and advertising structures. As regulated in §§
152.145 through
152.149.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.041  A-2, NON-EXCLUSIVE AGRICULTURE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The A-2 district is intended to protect open space and rural
areas while allowing reasonable use of property generally characterized by
varying topography and soils not ideally suited for croplands. Non-farm uses in
this district are intended to be compatible with farming operations, and
urbanization is considered unlikely.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the A-
2 district, subject to the standards set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   All uses permitted in the A-1 district;
      (2)   Boat sales, service, storage and rental;
      (3)   Butcher shop or custom meat processing;
      (4)   Country club or golf course;
      (5)   Lodge or private club;
      (6)   Marina;
      (7)   Public camp;
      (8)   Riding stable;
      (9)   Rural business or services;
      (10)   Seasonal hunting or fishing lodge;
      (11)   Single-family dwelling of 720 square feet or larger;
      (12)   Manufactured home used as a permanent single-family dwelling which
is at least 24
feet wide and contains 950 square feet or larger, which shall be measured by
using the outside dimensions of the structure excluding the towing mechanism;
      (13)   Uses customarily accessory and incidental to permitted uses; and
      (14)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only if the Board
issues a conditional use permit as provided for in §
152.242:
      (1)   Any conditional use permitted in the A-1 district (other than those
specifically listed above in division (B) as permitted uses);
      (2)   Tourist home; and
      (3)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (D)   Development standards. The following property development standards
shall apply to all land and structures in the A-2 district.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot size shall be one acre.
      (2)   Building height.
         (a)   The maximum height for any principal building or structure,
other than an agricultural structure, is 35 feet.
         (b)   The maximum height for accessory buildings shall be as regulated
in §
152.021.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front.
            1.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 50 feet abutting a
principal or minor arterial.
            2.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 40 feet abutting a
collector or local street.
         (b)   Side. The minimum side setback shall be ten feet.
         (c)   Rear. The minimum rear setback shall be ten feet.
      (4)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 30%.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading. As regulated in §§
152.125 through
152.132.
      (6)   Signs and advertising structures. As regulated in §§
152.145 through
152.149.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.042  R-A, RURAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-A district is to provide for the
development of single-family residential estate homes in a semi-rural,
residential environment. This district is a large-lot residential district and
is located adjacent to farming areas. It is the intent of this chapter that
rural residential developments do not interfere with adjacent or nearby farming
operations and that owners of residential property recognize that there are
characteristics of farming operations (such as noise, dust and odor) that may
affect their property. It is intended that the agricultural operations will
continue.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the R-
A district, subject to the development standards set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Farm;
      (2)   Greenhouses and plant nurseries;
      (3)   Roadside produce sales stand;
      (4)   Single-family dwelling of 950 square feet or larger;
      (5)   Manufactured home used as a permanent single-family dwelling which
is at least 24 feet wide and contains 950 square feet or larger, which shall be
measured by using the outside dimensions of the structure excluding the towing
mechanism;
      (6)   Two-family dwelling;
      (7)   Truck gardens;
      (8)   Worker housing for persons employed on the premises;
      (9)   Accessory uses normally associated with permitted uses; and
      (10)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only if the Board
issues a conditional use permit as provided for in §
152.242:
      (1)   Advertising structures;
      (2)   Airport;
      (3)   Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquefied fertilizer, commercial
storage and distribution;
      (4)   Auction sales yard;
      (5)   Bait sales (live);
      (6)   Bed and breakfast use;
      (7)   Camp ground;
      (8)   Cemetery;
      (9)   Child or adult care home;
      (10)   Church;
      (11)   Country club or golf course;
      (12)   Farm equipment sales and service;
      (13)   Greenhouses and plant nurseries;
      (14)   Group home;
      (15)   Home occupation;
      (16)   Hospital;
      (17)   Institutional use;
      (18)   Kennel;
      (19)   Manufactured home as a temporary dwelling unit, in accordance with
§§
152.110 and
152.111;
      (20)   Manufactured home as a permanent dwelling of 950 square feet or
larger in accordance with §§
152.110 and
152.111 (other than those specifically listed above in division (B) as
permitted uses);
      (21)   Manufactured home park, with development plan approval in
accordance with §§
152.110 and
152.111;
      (22)   Mortuaries and funeral services;
      (23)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (24)   Oil and gas production (subject to the requirements of §
152.205);
      (25)   Private or parochial school;
      (26)   Riding stable;
      (27)   Rural business or services;
      (28)   Seasonal hunting or fishing lodge;
      (29)   Second dwelling unit;
      (30)   Special services;
      (31)   Worker housing for persons employed on the premises;
      (32)   Fences and walls over six feet in height in side and rear setback
areas only; and
      (33)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (D)   Development standards. The following property development standards
shall apply to all land and structures in the R-A district.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot area shall be one acre. In improved
blocks, as defined in §
152.004, the lot area may be reduced to the average size for all lots in the
block.
      (2)   Building height.
         (a)   The maximum height for any principal building or structure,
other than an agricultural structure, is 35 feet.
         (b)   The maximum height for accessory buildings shall be as regulated
in §
152.021.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front.
            1.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 35 feet abutting a
principal or minor arterial.
            2.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 25 feet abutting a
collector or local street.
         (b)   Side. The minimum side setback shall be ten feet.
         (c)   Rear. The minimum rear setback shall be ten feet.
      (4)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall be 30%.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading. As regulated in §§
152.125 through
152.132.
      (6)   Signs and advertising structures. As regulated in §§
152.145 through
152.149.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.043  R-1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1 district is intended to provide for moderate-density
single-family neighborhoods.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling of 950 square feet or larger;
      (2)   Manufactured home used as a permanent single-family dwelling which
is at least 24 feet wide and contains 950 square feet or larger, which shall be
measured by using the outside dimensions of the structure excluding the towing
mechanism; and
      (3)   Accessory uses normally associated with permitted uses.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only if the Board
issues a conditional use permit as provided for in §
152.242.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast use;
      (2)   Cemetery;
      (3)   Child or adult care home;
      (4)   Church;
      (5)   Country club;
      (6)   Group home;
      (7)   Home occupation;
      (8)   Institutional use;
      (9)   Manufactured home as a temporary dwelling unit, in accordance with
§§
152.110 and
152.111;
      (10)   Manufactured home of 950 square feet or larger in accordance with
§§
152.110 and
152.111 (other than those specifically listed above in division (B) as
permitted uses);
      (11)   Mortuaries and funeral services;
      (12)   Private or parochial school;
      (13)   Special services;
      (14)   Fences and walls over six feet in height in side and rear setback
areas only; and
      (15)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (D)   Development standards. The following property development standards
shall apply to all land and structures in the R-1 district.
      (1)   Lot size.
         (a)   The minimum lot width shall be 60 feet; provided that any plat
of a major subdivision submitted for plat approval in accordance with
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances may reduce the minimum width to at least
45 feet of frontage on a street. In improved blocks, as defined in §
152.004, the width may be reduced to the average width for all lots in the
block.
         (b)   The minimum depth for any lot shall be 120 feet. In improved
blocks, as defined in §
152.004, the depth may be reduced to the average depth for all lots in the
block.
      (2)   Building height. The maximum height of a principal building shall
be 30 feet.
      (3)   Setbacks. The minimum setback lines in an R-1 district shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Front.
            1.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 35 feet abutting a
principal or minor arterial.
            2.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 30 feet abutting a
collector street.
            3.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 20 feet abutting a
local street.
         (b)   Side and rear. The minimum side and rear setback shall be 5% of
the lot width; provided that the minimum required side and rear setback shall
be not less than five feet nor more than 25 feet. However, if an alley is
located along the property line, the minimum setback from the property line
shall be 15 feet.
      (4)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage in an R-1 district shall not
exceed 40% of the lot area.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading. As regulated in §§
152.125 through
152.132.
      (6)   Signs and advertising structures. As regulated in §§
152.145 through
152.149.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.044  R-2, MIXED RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-2 district is intended to provide for a variety of
residence types at moderate density.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the R-
2 district, subject to the development standards set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling of 950 square feet or larger;
      (2)   Manufactured home used as a permanent single-family dwelling which
is at least 24 feet wide and contains 950 square feet or larger, which shall be
measured by using the outside dimensions of the structure excluding the towing
mechanism;
      (3)   Two-family dwelling;
      (4)   Boarding or lodging house; and
      (5)   Bed and breakfast use.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only if the Board
issues a conditional use permit as provided for in §
152.242:
      (1)   Advertising structures;
      (2)   Cemetery;
      (3)   Child or adult care home;
      (4)   Church;
      (5)   Country club;
      (6)   Fraternity, sorority or student cooperative;
      (7)   Group home;
      (8)   Home occupation;
      (9)   Institutional use;
      (10)   Manufactured home as a temporary dwelling unit, in accordance with
§§
152.110 and
152.111;
      (11)   Manufactured home as a permanent dwelling of 950 square feet or
larger in accordance with §§
152.110 and
152.111 (other than those specifically listed above in division (B) as
permitted uses);
      (12)   Manufactured home park, with development plan approval in
accordance with §§
152.110 and
152.111;
      (13)   Mortuaries and funeral services;
      (14)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (15)   Private or parochial school;
      (16)   Special services;
      (17)   Fences and walls over six feet in height in side and rear setback
areas only; and
      (18)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (D)   Development standards. The following property development standards
shall apply to all land and structures in the R-2 district.
      (1)   Lot size.
         (a)   Width.
            1.   For single-family dwellings, the minimum lot width shall be 60
feet; provided that any plat of a major subdivision submitted for plat approval
in accordance with
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances may reduce the minimum width to at least
45 feet of frontage on a street. In improved blocks, as defined in §
152.004, the width may be reduced to the average width for all lots in the
block.
            2.   For two-family dwellings and multi-family dwellings, the
minimum lot width shall be 70 feet; provided that any plat of a major
subdivision submitted for plat approval in accordance with
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances may reduce the minimum width to at least
50 feet of frontage on a street. In improved blocks, as defined in §
152.004, the width may be reduced to the average width for all lots in the
block.
         (b)   Depth. The minimum depth for any lot shall be 120 feet for
single-family dwellings; and 140 feet for two- or multi-family dwellings. In
improved blocks, as defined in §
152.004, the depth may be reduced to the average depth for all lots in the
block.
      (2)   Building height.
         (a)   For single-family and two-family dwellings, the maximum height
of a principal building shall be 30 feet.
         (b)   For multi-family dwellings, the maximum height of a principal
building shall be 45 feet.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   For single-family and two-family dwellings, the minimum setback
lines in an R-2 district shall be as follows.
            1.   Front.
               a.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 35 feet abutting
a principal or minor arterial.
               b.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 30 feet abutting
a collector street.
               c.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 20 feet abutting
a local street.
            2.   Side and rear. The minimum side and rear setback shall be 5%
of the lot width; provided that the minimum required side and rear setback
shall be not less than five feet, nor more than 25 feet. However, if an alley
is located along the property line, the minimum setback from the property line
shall be 15 feet.
         (b)   For multi-family dwellings, the minimum setback lines in an R-
2 district shall be as follows.
            1.   Front.
               a.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 35 feet abutting
a principal or minor arterial.
               b.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 25 feet abutting
a collector street.
               c.   Lots shall have a minimum front setback of 20 feet abutting
a local street.
            2.   Side and rear. The minimum side and rear setback shall be 5%
of the lot width; provided that the minimum required side and rear setback
shall be not less than five feet, nor more than 25 feet. However, if an alley
is located along the property line, the minimum setback from the property line
shall be 15 feet.
      (4)   Lot coverage.
         (a)   For single-family dwellings, the maximum lot coverage in an R-
2 district shall not exceed 40% of the lot area.
         (b)   For two-family and multi-family dwellings, the maximum lot
coverage in an R-2 district shall not exceed 50% of the lot area.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading. As regulated in §§
152.125 through
152.132.
      (6)   Signs and advertising structures. As regulated in §§
152.145 through
152.149.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.045  C-1, LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The C-1 district is intended to provide for neighborhood-
scale businesses offering convenience goods and services and meeting everyday
shopping and service needs.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the C-
1 district, subject to the property development standards set forth in this
chapter:
      (1)   Convenience store;
      (2)   Mortuaries and funeral services;
      (3)   Personal services;
      (4)   Professional offices;
      (5)   Retail services;
      (6)   Special services;
      (7)   Accessory uses, which are incidental to, maintained on the same lot
and commonly associated with the operation of a permitted use;
      (8)   Dwelling unit as an accessory use as a residence located on the
premises. No more than two dwelling units shall be permitted on a single parcel
of land; and
      (9)   Other uses comparable and compatible to those set forth in this
section.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted in the C-1 district
only if the Board issues a conditional use permit as provided for in §
152.242:
      (1)   Advertising structures;
      (2)   Automobile service station;
      (3)   Camp ground;
      (4)   Car wash;
      (5)   Cemetery;
      (6)   Church;
      (7)   Kennel; and
      (8)   Commercial and institutional uses not otherwise permitted in this
district.
   (D)   Conduct of uses. The conduct of permitted uses in a C-1 district shall
be within completely enclosed buildings, except for accessory off-street
parking and loading facilities and drive-in convenience service windows.
      (1)   Establishments where the principal use is the drive-in type of
business are not permitted.
      (2)   A single establishment shall not exceed 12,000 square feet in total
gross floor area.
   (E)   Development standards. The following property development standards
shall apply to all land and structures in the C-1 district.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot area in a C-1 district shall be 5,000
square feet.
      (2)   Width. The minimum lot width in a C-1 district shall be 50 feet.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front. Each lot line abutting or fronting on a public street
shall have a minimum front setback of 25 feet.
         (b)   Side and rear. No limits where the lot line abuts other business
or industrial district lot lines.
      (4)   Height. The maximum building height permitted shall be 35 feet.
      (5)   Floor area. The total floor area of the building shall not exceed
60% of the lot area in a C-1 district.
      (6)   Off-street parking and loading. As regulated in §§
152.125 through
152.132.
      (7)   Signs and advertising structures. As regulated in §§
152.145 through
152.149.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.046  C-2, CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The C-2 central business district is intended to serve as the
primary business district of urban places, where a full range of goods and
services are offered and where the greatest land use intensity is located. This
district is the focal point for community identification, highly accessible to
the entire trade area and designed for pedestrian-oriented services.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the C-2 central
business district, subject to the development standards set forth in this
chapter:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the C-1 district;
      (2)   Commercial parking lots, enclosed parking garages and off-street
parking reservoir facilities;
      (3)   Commercial recreation;
      (4)   Drive-in restaurant;
      (5)   Drive-through establishment;
      (6)   General retail services;
      (7)   Institutional uses;
      (8)   Printing, publishing, blueprinting and photostatting
establishments;
      (9)   Public and semi-public uses;
      (10)   Radio and television stations;
      (11)   Rooming units, tourist homes;
      (12)   Sales and display rooms for retail, wholesale and distribution of
goods by retailers and wholesalers;
      (13)   Transportation facilities and accessory facilities therefore,
including, but not limited to, waiting rooms, loading and unloading areas,
storage and associated commercial uses;
      (14)   Automobile sales, truck sales, boat sales, and similar uses;
      (15)   Hospital; and
      (16)   Other uses comparable and compatible to those set forth in this
section.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted in the C-2 district
only if the Board issues a conditional use permit as provided for in §
152.242:
      (1)   Advertising structures;
      (2)   Automobile repair garage;
      (3)   Automobile service station;
      (4)   Bed and breakfast uses;
      (5)   Butcher shop or custom meat processing;
      (6)   Camp ground;
      (7)   Car wash;
      (8)   Cemetery;
      (9)   Church;
      (10)   Greenhouses and plant nurseries;
      (11)   Kennel;
      (12)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (13)   Single-family dwelling of 950 square feet or larger;
      (14)   Two-family dwelling;
      (15)   Manufactured home as a permanent dwelling of 950 square feet or
larger in accordance with §§
152.110 and
152.111;
      (16)   Commercial and institutional uses not otherwise permitted in this
district; and
      (17)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (D)   Conduct of uses. The conduct of permitted uses in a C-2 district shall
be within completely enclosed buildings, except for accessory uses that clearly
demonstrate subordination to the permitted uses in area, extent and purpose.
Accessory uses such as outside storage and display of merchandise for sale to
the public shall be delineated if not enclosed, and may be open to the sky. The
accessory uses shall not occupy an area in excess of 30% of the total floor
area used in the same building by the same firm or enterprise. The outdoor
storage and display of merchandise shall not be interpreted as meaning the
stockpiling of materials that are not immediately available for purchase.
   (E)   Development standards. The following development standards shall apply
to all land and structures in the C-2 district.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot area in a C-2 district shall be 5,000
square feet. In improved blocks, as defined in §
152.004, the lot area may be reduced to the average size for all lots in the
block.
      (2)   Width. The minimum lot width in a C-2 district shall be 50 feet. In
improved blocks, as defined in §
152.004, the width may be reduced to the average width for all lots in the
block.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front. Each lot line abutting or fronting on a public street
shall have a minimum front setback of 25 feet.
         (b)   Side and rear. No limits where the lot line abuts other business
or industrial district lot lines.
      (4)   Building height. The maximum height permitted shall be 75 feet.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading. As regulated in §§
152.125 through
152.132.
      (6)   Signs and advertising structures. As regulated in §§
152.145 through
152.149.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.047  C-3, GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The C-3 general business district intended to provide for
business and commercial establishments providing a wide variety of shopper and
comparison goods and services.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the C-3 general
business district, subject to the development standards set forth in this
chapter:
      (1)   All uses permitted in the C-2 district;
      (2)   Automobile repair garage;
      (3)   Automobile service station;
      (4)   Big box retail use;
      (5)   Butcher shop or custom meat processing;
      (6)   Car wash;
      (7)   Greenhouses and plant nurseries;
      (8)   Kennel;
      (9)   Shopping centers; and
      (10)   Other uses comparable and compatible to those set forth in this
section.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only if a
conditional use permit is issued by the Board as provided for in §
152.242:
      (1)   Advertising structures;
      (2)   Airport;
      (3)   Auction sales yards;
      (4)   Camp ground;
      (5)   Cemetery;
      (6)   Church;
      (7)   Hotel or motel;
      (8)   Oil and gas production (subject to the requirements of §
152.205);
      (9)   Outdoor sales and storage (including automobile and boat sales);
      (10)   Truck service center; and
      (11)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (D)   Development standards. The following property development standards
shall apply to all land and structures in the C-3 district.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot size in the C-3 district shall be 5,000
square feet.
      (2)   Setback.
         (a)   Front. Lots abutting a public street shall have a minimum
setback of 20 feet. The minimum required front setback distance may contain
off-street parking.
         (b)   Side and rear. No limit where the lot line abuts other business
or industrial district lot lines.
      (3)   Building height. The maximum building height permitted shall be 75
feet in a C-3 district.
      (4)   Floor area. The total floor area of a building shall not exceed
150% of the lot area in a C-3 district.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading. As regulated in §§
152.125 through
152.132.
      (6)   Signs and advertising structures. As regulated in §§
152.145 through
152.149.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.048  I-1, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The I-1 light industrial district is intended to accommodate
industrial operations that are conducted within completely enclosed buildings
and operated in such a manner that nuisance factors are minimized.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the I-1 district,
subject to the development standards set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Automobile service station;
      (2)   Automobile repair garage;
      (3)   Crematory;
      (4)   Truck service center;
      (5)   Engineering or research laboratories, vocational or industrial
training facilities, data processing or analysis;
      (6)   Light manufacturing, including processing, refining, fabricating,
assembling, cleaning, testing or repairing of goods, materials or products;
provided that uses with objectionable characteristics are deemed to be
conditional uses;
      (7)   Railroad or other mass transportation rights-of-way and trackage,
including passenger stations, shelter stations and layover areas for transit
vehicles and off-street parking facilities; provided that the uses, except
rights-of-way, shall not extend within 20 feet of a residential district;
      (8)   Enclosed wholesaling, warehousing, packaging, storage or
distribution facilities;
      (9)   General offices associated with an industrial use, including
service facilities for employees or guests; provided that any service
facilities shall be entirely enclosed within a building;
      (10)   Utility installations and facilities;
      (11)   Retail sales related to the industrial use, such as a company
store;
      (12)   Accessory uses which are incidental to, maintained on the same lot
and commonly associated with the operation of a permitted use, including
recreational areas for employees and lodging facilities for owners, guards or
caretakers;
      (13)   Dwelling unit as an accessory use as a residence for an operator
or employee of a business located on the premises. No more than one such
dwelling unit shall be permitted on a single parcel of land; and
      (14)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only if the Board
issues a conditional use permit as provided for in §
152.242:
      (1)   Advertising structures;
      (2)   Airport;
      (3)   Cemetery;
      (4)   Church;
      (5)   Commercial recreation;
      (6)   Personal services;
      (7)   Professional offices;
      (8)   Retail services;
      (9)   Slaughterhouse; and
      (10)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (D)   Development standards. The following property development standards
shall apply to all land and structures in the I-1 district.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot size in the I-1 district shall be 10,000
square feet.
      (2)   Setback.
         (a)   Front. Lots abutting a public street shall have a minimum
setback of 25 feet. The minimum required front setback distance may contain
off-street parking.
         (b)   Side and rear. No limit where the lot line abuts other business
or industrial district lot lines.
      (3)   Building height. The maximum building height permitted shall be 40
feet in an I-1 district, provided that additional height shall be permitted to
the maximum extent of 100 feet when additional setback distance is provided to
the minimum extent of two feet for each five feet in height over the 40 feet.
      (4)   Floor area. The total floor area of a building shall not exceed
200% of the lot area in an I-1 district.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading. As regulated in §§
152.125 through
152.132.
      (6)   Signs and advertising structures. As regulated in §§
152.145 through
152.149.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.049  I-2, GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The I-2 general industrial district is intended to provide
for manufacturing and other industrial operations that are for the production
of materials and goods and are desirable for the economic well being of the
community.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the I-2 district,
subject to the development standards set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the I-1 district;
      (2)   Auction sales yard;
      (3)   Bakeries and other food processing operations;
      (4)   Concrete mixing, production of concrete blocks and shapes, cinder
blocks and other similar building materials;
      (5)   Contractors yards;
      (6)   Foundries, smelting and metal forging operations;
      (7)   Manufacturing, except for those items listed in division (C) below
as conditional uses;
      (8)   Monument works and stone cutting;
      (9)   Power plants;
      (10)   Recycling facilities;
      (11)   Sand and gravel extraction, aggregate washing or processing; and
      (12)   Other uses comparable and compatible to those set forth in this
section.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted only if the Board
issues a conditional use permit as provided for in §
152.242:
      (1)   Airport;
      (2)   Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquefied fertilizer, commercial
storage and distribution;
      (3)   Cemetery;
      (4)   Church;
      (5)   Junk yard;
      (6)   Manufacturing, storage and use of explosives;
      (7)   Oil and gas production (subject to the requirements of §
152.205);
      (8)   Slaughterhouse; and
      (9)   Other uses deemed comparable and compatible to those set forth in
this section.
   (D)   Development standards. The following property development standards
shall apply to all land and structures in the I-2 district.
      (1)   Lot size. The minimum lot size in the I-2 district shall be 20,000
square feet.
      (2)   Setback.
         (a)   Front. Lots abutting a public street shall have a minimum
setback of 35 feet. The minimum required front setback distance may contain
off-street parking.
         (b)   Side and rear. No limit where the lot line abuts other business
or industrial district lot lines.
      (3)   Building height. The maximum building height permitted shall be 60
feet in an I-2 district; provided that additional height shall be permitted to
the maximum extent of 100 feet when additional setback distance is provided to
the minimum extent of two feet for each five feet in height over the 60 feet.
      (4)   Floor area. The total floor area of a building shall not exceed
200% of the lot area in an I-2 district.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading. As regulated in §§
152.125 through
152.132.
      (6)   Signs and advertising structures. As regulated in §§
152.145 through
152.149.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
SITE SKETCHES AND DEVELOPMENT PLANS
§ 152.060  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4, the 1400 Series, the staff
is hereby authorized to approve or disapprove development plans and site
sketches for the uses in the zoning districts for which they are required under
the terms of this chapter; except for those development plans for coal and
other mineral extraction activities, which require approval or disapproval by
the Commission as outlined under §§
152.185 through
152.190.
   (B)   Purpose. Development plans and site sketches are intended to ensure
that districts and uses with special needs for compatibility are developed in a
responsible manner, consistent with the comprehensive plan and with the intent
and provisions of this chapter; and to guide the staff in the issuance of
permits.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.061  SITE SKETCHES.
   (A)   In any zoning district, an application for an improvement location
permit shall include a detailed site sketch for any development of agricultural
use, or residential use of two units or less, or other minor developments as
determined by the staff.
   (B)   The site sketch shall be drawn legible, to scale, and the following
information shall be indicated with full dimensioning:
      (1)   Lot or tract dimensions;
      (2)   All existing and proposed buildings and structures with location,
size, height and use indicated;
      (3)   Setback lines and distance between buildings and property lines;
      (4)   Off-street parking with location, number and size if spaces
indicated;
      (5)   Any driveways and public or private streets on and adjoining the
site with location, dimensions and circulation patterns indicated;
      (6)   Satisfactory evidence of sewage disposal and surface water drainage
with location, type and direction of flow indicated;
      (7)   Signs and advertising structures with location, size, height,
lighting and other details indicated; and
      (8)   North arrow and scale
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.062  DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   An application for an improvement location permit shall include a
development plan for any development not qualified above under §
152.061(A).
   (B)   The development plan application shall include or incorporate by
reference all of the above items listed for site sketches, and shall also
include the following:
      (1)   Legal description and accurate boundaries of the lot or parcel;
      (2)   Sewage disposal plan;
      (3)   Water supply plan;
      (4)   Approved drainage plan, or written waiver of such, according to
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances; except within those geographic areas
included within the incorporated limits of the City of Vincennes;
      (5)   Traffic management plan;
      (6)   Any driveways and public or private streets on and adjoining the
site with location, dimensions and circulation patterns indicated;
      (7)   Parking area details, including number, location and size of
parking spaces;
      (8)   On-site vehicular and pedestrian circulation;
      (9)   Landscape plan, including sizes, types and locations of plants and
other landscape features;
      (10)   Outdoor lighting;
      (11)   Recreation space and uses;
      (12)   Sizes, heights, locations and style of all buildings;
      (13)   Proposed uses of buildings;
      (14)   Development standards in compliance with this chapter;
      (15)   Sign plan, providing for all permanent and temporary signs to be
placed on the property, as regulated in §§
152.145 through
152.149; and
      (16)   Certification by the appropriate licensed professional if required
under state laws.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.063  APPROVAL AND DECISION CRITERIA.
   (A)   The staff shall approve a site sketch or development plan and issue an
improvement location permit only if the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The development is compatible with surrounding land uses;
      (2)   The development will have adequate sewage disposal, water supply,
drainage and other utilities;
      (3)   Traffic will be managed in a manner that creates conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience and the harmonious development of the
community as described below:
         (a)   The design and location of proposed street and highway access
points minimize safety hazards and congestion;
         (b)   The capacity of adjacent streets and highways is sufficient to
safely and efficiently accept traffic that will be generated by the new
development; and
         (c)   The entrances, streets and internal traffic circulation
facilities in the development plan are compatible with existing and planned
streets and adjacent developments.
      (4)   The staff shall obtain assistance as needed from the appropriate
operating authorities or other departments of city or town units of government
in making determinations and approvals of the above mentioned criteria;
      (5)   The development is in compliance with all relevant laws,
ordinances, administrative rules and other controlling authority; and
      (6)   The development is consistent with the spirit and purpose of the
comprehensive plan.
   (B)   An applicant may appeal any decision of the staff to the Board.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.064  MINOR MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Minor modifications are changes that do not do any of the following:
      (1)   Alter the basic relationship of the proposed development to
adjacent property;
      (2)   Change the uses permitted;
      (3)   Increase any of the following by more than 15% (this total is
cumulative for all modifications to the development plan):
         (a)   The maximum density;
         (b)   The maximum floor area; and
         (c)   The maximum height.
      (4)   Decrease the amount of off-street parking to an amount not adequate
for the use. In determining the amount of parking that is adequate, the staff
shall consider the amount otherwise required by the zoning ordinance for this
use, the information available from the Institute of Traffic Engineers and
empirical studies of the parking needs for the use; and
      (5)   Alter site ingress or egress in any way or create a substantial
change to on-site circulation.
   (B)   Upon receiving a request for a minor modification, the staff shall
have ten working days to respond to the petitioner, by either approving or
rejecting the request.
   (C)   An applicant may appeal any decision of the staff to the Board.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 152.075  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The PUD planned unit development district is intended to
implement the comprehensive plan and encourage a more creative approach in land
development and site planning.
      (1)   Applicability. This section may apply to any tract of land where it
is in the best interests of the county, city or town to provide for added
flexibility and creativity in development design.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted in a PUD may include any use or
combination of uses that the Commission and legislative body find to be
consistent with the comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Modification. Any development standard in this chapter may be modified
for a PUD, provided that the Commission and/or legislative body find(s) that
the modification promotes the purposes of this chapter and is consistent with
the spirit and intent of this chapter. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to provide justification for modification of any development
standard.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   A petition to rezone property to PUD may be filed by any of the
following:
         (a)   The owners of all lots or parcels within the area proposed for
rezoning; and/or
         (b)   In the case of a single lot or parcel with multiple owners, all
those having ownership interest in the lot or parcel.
      (2)   A petition to modify an approved PUD may be filed by the following:
         (a)   The owners of all lots or parcels within the area proposed for
modification and any other owners in the PUD affected by the modification; and
         (b)   In the case of a single lot or parcel with multiple owners,
owners having a majority ownership interest in the lot or parcel.
   (D)   Hearing and decision.
      (1)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing and make a
recommendation to the legislative body on the proposed PUD ordinance and PUD
zoning in the same manner as for amendments to the zoning map as set forth in §
152.007. The Commission may recommend approval or disapproval of the rezoning
request.
      (2)   Approval of the design of any installed public improvements to be
dedicated must be obtained from the appropriate operating authority prior to
recommending the approval of a PUD plan. Before the Commission recommends
approving a PUD plan showing park reservation(s) or land dedicated to any local
governmental unit, the Commission shall obtain approval of the reservation or
dedication of the land from the participating jurisdiction.
      (3)   The Commission may impose conditions on a favorable recommendation
and/or request written commitments in the same manner as for amendments to the
zoning map as set forth in §
152.007.
      (4)   The legislative body may impose reasonable conditions on a proposed
PUD and allow or require the owner of the real property to make written
commitments in the same manner as for amendments to the zoning map as set forth
in §
152.007.
      (5)   Adoption of the PUD ordinance by the legislative body constitutes
final approval of the preliminary PUD plan. After the PUD ordinance is adopted,
the Commission shall exercise continuing jurisdiction. The Commission is hereby
authorized to conduct secondary reviews, grant approvals and make modifications
to approved detailed PUD plans. The Commission shall not modify the preliminary
PUD plan or any condition or commitment allowed or required by the legislative
body.
   (E)   Modification procedure.
      (1)   In the exercise of its continuing jurisdiction, the Commission may
from time to time allow the petitioner to modify the approved detailed PUD in a
manner consistent with the approved preliminary PUD plan to allow for changed
circumstances and conditions unforeseen at the time of original approval.
Except as provided below, the modifications shall be considered in the same
manner as the secondary review, and notice shall be given to interested parties
and the hearing conducted in accordance with the Commission's rules of
procedure.
      (2)   The staff is authorized to approve minor modifications as specified
in §
152.077.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.076  REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An application for rezoning to PUD shall include or incorporate by
reference the following:
      (1)   Legal description of the property involved in the request;
      (2)   Boundaries of the tract and all existing lots or parcels within the
tract;
      (3)   Drawing of the site and adjacent land showing the physical
features, topography, drainage ways, regulated drains, easements, water bodies,
tree cover, existing buildings, existing land uses and existing zoning and the
relationship of the proposed development to these features;
      (4)   Streets on and in the vicinity of the tract;
      (5)   Ingress and egress to the tract;
      (6)   A listing of all principal and accessory uses and all temporary
uses to be permitted in the PUD district, the location of each general land use
area proposed to be developed, and the land area to be devoted to each use;
      (7)   Proposed density levels of each residential area;
      (8)   Proposed square footage of non-residential buildings and areas, if
any;
      (9)   Preliminary plan for permanent and temporary signs;
      (10)   Proposed general location of major vehicular circulation, showing
how this circulation pattern relates to the Comprehensive Plan;
      (11)   Location of existing or proposed schools, parks and other
community facility sites, if any;
      (12)   Time schedule of projected development and any proposed phasing of
the project;
      (13)   An enumeration of covenants, in general terms, proposed to be made
a part of the development;
      (14)   A preliminary analysis of the traffic impact of the development
and measures proposed to mitigate traffic problems;
      (15)   A written narrative describing the relationship and consistency of
the proposed development with the comprehensive plan; and
      (16)   Any other materials or information the Commission deems necessary
for a fair and complete evaluation of the proposed development.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct secondary review as specified in state
law and further described in this section.
      (1)   The Commission may approve a detailed PUD plan only after a public
hearing. Notice shall be given to interested parties and the hearing conducted
in accordance with the Commission's rules of procedure.
      (2)   Approval of the design of any installed public improvements to be
dedicated must be obtained from the appropriate operating authority prior to
approving or modifying the improvements under a detailed PUD plan. Before the
Commission approves a detailed PUD plan showing park reservation(s) or land
dedicated to any local governmental unit, the Commission shall obtain approval
of the reservation or dedication of the land from the participating
jurisdiction.
      (3)   No development shall take place until the Commission has approved a
detailed PUD plan. If a subdivision plat is filed in conjunction with the
detailed PUD plan, appropriate plans and details listed below may be included
on the subdivision plat rather than on the PUD plan. The detailed PUD plan or
subdivision plat shall include the following:
         (a)   Accurate boundaries of all lots;
         (b)   Township lines;
         (c)   Approved drainage plan according to the appropriate city or
county drainage ordinance;
         (d)   Sewage disposal plan;
         (e)   Water system plan;
         (f)   Accurate location and size of recreational facilities;
         (g)   Site perimeter treatment and other pertinent site development
features, including parking and circulation;
         (h)   Landscape plan, including sizes, types and locations of plants
and other landscape features;
         (i)   Land uses on each parcel and/or in each building shown on the
plan;
         (j)   Locations and features of proposed buildings. Unless required by
the Commission to ensure compatibility with neighboring properties, the
detailed PUD plan need not show precise building locations, but the plan shall
set forth the development standards for all buildings and uses;
         (k)   Sign plan, providing for all permanent and temporary signs to be
placed on the property; and
         (l)    Any other details needed to ensure compliance with the
preliminary PUD plan.
      (4)   Approval of the detailed PUD plan shall be granted only upon a
finding by the Commission that the plan is consistent with the approved
preliminary PUD plan.
      (5)   The approved detailed PUD Plan shall be marked, "approved detailed
planned unit development," be signed by the President and Secretary of the
Commission, and bear the Commission's seal. One copy shall be permanently
retained in the Area Plan Office. No permits shall be issued until the detailed
plan and all accompanying documents have been recorded in the Office of the
County Recorder.
      (6)   Any decision of the Commission to approve or deny approval of a
detailed PUD plan hereunder is a final decision that may be appealed to the
legislative body; provided that, any refusal by the Commission to approve a
detailed PUD plan shall not limit the right of the petitioner to continue to
seek approval, nor shall it impair the right of the petitioner to request an
extension of time for approval, if no appeal is filed.
   (C)   The Commission may allow the petitioner to develop the property
involved in phases. If the phasing is permitted, the petitioner shall submit
detailed PUD plans that correspond to the phases involved, and the phases shall
be developed in the order approved by the Commission. The detailed PUD plans
for phases, when approved, shall be treated in the same manner as the approved
detailed PUD plan for an entire PUD.
   (D)   Where platting, or replatting of streets within all or a portion of
the land involved is contemplated, the Commission shall handle the matters in
accordance with its regular procedures in accordance with law.
   (E)   No construction or installation work shall be done on any public
improvement until satisfactory plans and specifications therefore have been
approved by the Commission as part of the approved detailed PUD plan or as part
of a subdivision in accordance with
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.077  MINOR MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Minor modifications are changes that do not do any of the following:
      (1)   Alter the basic relationship of the proposed development to
adjacent property;
      (2)   Change the uses permitted; and
      (3)   Increase any of the following by more than 15% (this total is
cumulative for all modifications to the PUD):
         (a)   The maximum density;
         (b)   The maximum floor area;
         (c)   The maximum height;
         (d)   Decrease the amount of off-street parking to an amount not
adequate for the use. In determining the amount of parking that is adequate,
the staff shall consider the amount otherwise required by the zoning ordinance
for this use, the information available from the Institute of Traffic Engineers
and empirical studies of the parking needs for the use;
         (e)   Reduce the approved setbacks by more than 15%; and
         (f)   Alter site ingress or egress in any way or create a substantial
change to on-site circulation, as determined by the appropriate engineering or
highway department.
   (B)   Upon receiving a request for a minor modification, the staff shall
have ten working days to respond to the petitioner, by either approving or
rejecting the request. An applicant may appeal the decision of the staff to the
Commission.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.078  ABANDONMENT OR EXPIRATION.
   (A)   The legislative body's approval of the preliminary PUD plan shall be
valid for two years after the date the legislative body adopts the PUD
ordinance. Within this two-year period, the PUD shall receive approval of the
final detailed PUD plan for the first section or the entire development. Should
the planned development not receive approval of the detailed PUD plan for at
least one section or the entire development within the two years, the
legislative body, Commission or property owner may initiate a rezoning of the
property. The Commission may extend the approval period, not to exceed five
successive periods of no more than two years each. The approval of the detailed
PUD plan for each section of the preliminary PUD plan shall extend the approval
length of the preliminary PUD plan for two years.
   (B)   Commission approval of a detailed PUD plan shall expire if the plan is
not recorded within six months after the approval date. Commission approval of
a detailed PUD plan shall expire after a period of five years from the approval
of a detailed PUD unless the development in any phase has been substantially
begun and pursued with due diligence. The Commission may grant extensions of
time not to exceed five successive periods of no more than two years each. If
the detailed PUD plan expires as provided in this section, the Commission may
require the plan to be resubmitted for approval, and it shall conduct a
secondary review as if the plan were a new filing. Alternatively, the
Commission may opt to initiate a rezoning of the property to a classification
other than PUD.
   (C)   A development approved under this chapter shall be deemed to be
abandoned or discontinued if it has expired under division (B) above or when no
improvements have been made pursuant to the detailed PUD plan for a period of
24 consecutive months. When a PUD has been abandoned or discontinued, the
detailed PUD plan shall no longer be valid, and no development shall be
permitted until the plan is re-approved, and/or the property is rezoned.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.079  PERMITS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The staff shall not issue any permit for development or improvements
in a PUD district unless all recording required by this chapter has been
effected and unless the development complies with the approved detailed PUD.
   (B)   All development shall be in conformity with the approved detailed PUD.
In the exercise of its continuing jurisdiction, the Commission shall take
cognizance of any material deviations from the approved detailed PUD and take
appropriate enforcement action. Only those uses shown on the approved detailed
PUD plan shall be permitted; all other uses are prohibited.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.080  COVENANTS AND MAINTENANCE; FINANCIAL GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Covenants may be required by the Commission as an ingredient for
stability and longevity of the PUD. If submitted, the covenants shall set forth
in detail provisions for the ownership, administration, and maintenance of
facilities held in common so as to ensure their continuity and conservation.
The covenant provisions shall include specific remedies in the event facilities
held in common are permitted to deteriorate or are not maintained in a
condition consistent with the best interests of the county, city or town, and
in such event the county, city or town may take those remedial steps provided
for the provision. The covenants shall be recorded with the detailed PUD plan.
   (B)   The Commission may require the recording of covenants for any
reasonable public or semi-public purpose, including, but not limited to, the
allocation of land by the petitioner for public thoroughfares, parks, schools,
recreational facilities and other public and semi-public purposes wherever
necessary in conformity with the land use plan of current adoption. The
covenants may provide that if a governmental unit or agency thereof does not
proceed with acquisition of the allocated land within the specified period of
time, the applicable elements of the covenants shall automatically terminate.
If the termination occurs, the petitioner shall then submit for approval by the
Commission a modified detailed PUD plan for the land consistent with the
approved preliminary PUD plan. The modified detailed PUD plans, when approved,
shall be treated in the same manner as approved detailed PUD plans for an
entire PUD.
   (C)   The Commission may require the recording of covenants for any other
reasonable purpose, including, but not limited to, imposing standards for
development of property in a PUD. The development standards may include, but
are not limited to, requirements as to the following:
      (1)   Lot area;
      (2)   Floor area;
      (3)   Ratios of floor space to land area;
      (4)   Buildable area or the area in which structures may be built;
      (5)   Open space;
      (6)   Setback lines;
      (7)   Building separations;
      (8)   Height of structures;
      (9)   Signs;
      (10)   Off-street parking and loading space;
      (11)   Design standards; and
      (12)   Phasing of development.
   (D)   Enforcement of the covenants shall be the responsibility of the
property owners, unless the county, a city or a town is, with its consent,
specifically made a party to one or more covenants. Public enforcement shall
apply only to those covenants to which a public entity is a party.
   (E)   (1)   Adequate provision shall be made for a private organization with
direct responsibility to and control by the property owners involved to provide
for the operation and maintenance of all common facilities, including private
streets.
      (2)   Assurances or guarantees, satisfactory to the Commission shall be
provided to demonstrate that the private organization is self-perpetuating and
adequately funded to accomplish its purposes.
   (F)   (1)   Common facilities that are not dedicated to the public shall be
maintained to standards assuring continuous and adequate maintenance at a
reasonable and non-discriminatory rate of charge to the beneficiaries thereof.
      (2)   Common facilities not dedicated to the public shall be operated and
maintained at no expense to any governmental unit.
   (G)   (1)   All private streets shall be maintained by the responsible
private organization in a manner that adequate access is provided at all times
to vehicular traffic, so that fire, police, health, sanitation and public
utility vehicles can serve the properties contiguous or adjacent thereto, and
so that the vehicles will have adequate maneuvering area.
      (2)   The private streets shall be developed in accordance with
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
   (H)   As a condition of approval, the Commission and/or legislative body
shall require any appropriate financial guarantees, according to the same
provisions as certificates and bonding of improvements in
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances, to ensure the specifications and timely
completion of any public improvements or facilities related to the PUD
platting.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
DEVELOPMENTS OF BROAD SIGNIFICANCE
§ 152.095  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. This subchapter is intended as a reasonable means for the
county to provide for developments of broad significance which are not possible
to anticipate and accommodate in advance. Because of their unique
characteristics, these uses cannot be properly classified in districts without
consideration, in each case, of the impact of those uses upon the use and value
of adjacent properties.
   (B)   Establishment. The legislative body may permit developments of broad
significance after public notice and public hearing, and determination that the
use is consistent with the spirit, purpose and intent of the comprehensive plan
and with this chapter. These uses, when approved, are considered to be an
addition to or deviation from the underlying zoning on the property. The
underlying district shall remain, and in the event that a development of broad
significance is not completed or is abandoned, the regulations of that
underlying district shall again govern the use of the property.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.096  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The staff shall determine whether an application for an improvement
location permit, zone map change or other similar application is for a
development of broad significance, as defined in this chapter. The staff's
determination may be appealed to the Plan Commission. If the proposed project
or activity is determined to be a development of broad significance, the terms
of this subchapter shall apply.
   (B)   An applicant for a development of broad significance shall submit to
the staff a narrative describing the project and the reasons for the selection
of the proposed location, an area location map and a site plan showing the
following:
      (1)   Proposed use of land;
      (2)   Arrangement of all buildings and structures;
      (3)   Location of streets and driveways, parking and loading areas;
      (4)   Utility lines;
      (5)   Sewerage and water facilities;
      (6)   Approved drainage plan according to the appropriate city or county
drainage ordinance; and
      (7)   Landscaping and other pertinent features.
   (C)   The Commission shall schedule and conduct a public hearing on the
proposal in the same manner as for amendments to the zoning map as set forth in
§
152.007.
   (D)   For each application for a development of broad significance, the
Commission shall report to the legislative body its findings and
recommendations, including the stipulation of the conditions and guarantees as
the Commission deems necessary for the protection of the public interest.
   (E)   The legislative body shall act on the application in the same manner
as an application for amendment to the zoning map, as set forth in §
152.007.
   (F)   After approval of the development of broad significance, if the
proposed development differs substantially from that shown on the approved site
plan, application must be made to the Commission to amend the site plan. The
executive director may authorize minor modifications that do not:
      (1)   Alter the basic relationship of the proposed development to
adjacent property;
      (2)   Change the uses permitted;
      (3)   Increase the maximum density, floor area, or height by more than
15%;
      (4)   Decrease the amount of off-street parking;
      (5)   Reduce the minimum setbacks by more than 15%; and
      (6)   Alter site ingress or egress, or create a substantial change to on-
site circulation. Upon submission of a request for a minor modification, the
executive director shall have ten working days to respond to the petitioner, by
either approving or rejecting the request. An applicant may appeal the decision
of the executive director to the Commission.
   (G)   Standards. The following are guidelines for the Commission in acting
upon applications for Developments of Broad Significance:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the development of
broad significance will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health,
safety, morals, convenience or general welfare.
      (2)   The development of broad significance will not be injurious to the
use and enjoyment of the other property in the immediate vicinity for the
purposes already permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property
values within the neighborhood.
      (3)   The establishment of the development of broad significance will not
impede the normal and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding
property for uses permitted in the district.
      (4)   Adequate utilities, landscaping, buffering and other necessary
facilities will be provided. In addition, the site plan shall indicate that the
lot area and access to the site are adequate for the use contemplated.
      (5)   The development of broad significance shall be permitted only if
the public streets, drainage facilities and utilities are adequate to serve the
proposed development. Public utilities shall have sufficient capacity to serve
the development. Adequate measures will be taken to provide ingress and egress
so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets. Any public
or private streets that will be improved to serve the development of broad
significance shall be developed under the same requirements as those outlined
for streets in
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances. Drainage facilities shall be designed
and approved as outlined in the appropriate city or county drainage ordinance.
      (6)   Approval of the design of any installed public improvements to be
dedicated must be obtained from the appropriate operating authority prior to
recommending, approving or modifying the improvements under a development of
broad significance. Before the Commission recommends or approves a development
of broad significance plan showing park reservations or land dedicated to any
local governmental unit, the Commission shall obtain approval of the
reservation or dedication of the land from the participating jurisdiction.
      (7)   When public improvements are developed, the developer or authorized
representative shall be required to post financial guarantees of performance
and maintenance for such improvements under the same bond requirements as those
outlined in
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
   (H)   Limitations. The use of every development of broad significance shall
be limited to the use first lawfully established therein. If the use shall
thereafter be abandoned, or in the event the use has not been established
within two years after the date of granting thereof, the area comprising the
development of broad significance shall by Commission action have the use
designation declared to be extended for a specified period of time.
   (I)   Conditions. Prior to the granting of any development of broad
significance, the Commission may recommend and the legislative body may
stipulate such conditions and restrictions upon the establishment, location,
construction, maintenance and operation of the development as is deemed
necessary for the protection of the public interest, and to secure compliance
with standards and requirements. In all cases in which developments of broad
significance are granted, the legislative body may require such evidence and
guarantees as it deems necessary as assurance that the conditions stipulated in
connection therewith will be complied with.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 152.110  MANUFACTURED HOMES (NOT LOCATED IN MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS).
   (A)   Temporary dwelling units.
      (1)   The Board may approve as a conditional use a manufactured home as a
temporary residence for caregivers or persons in need of care, subject to the
following criteria.
         (a)   The conditional use permit may be for a period of no more than
two years.
         (b)   The parcel on which the manufactured home is to be placed must
already contain a dwelling.
         (c)   The manufactured home shall remain on its wheels and not to be
placed on a permanent foundation.
         (d)   Applicable side and front setback regulations of the district in
which it is located shall be observed.
         (e)   Manufactured homes must be located in the side or rear yard.
         (f)   The manufactured home must be used either as a residence for a
person acting as a care-provider for someone living in the other dwelling unit,
or by a person who is being cared for by someone living in the other dwelling
unit on the parcel. Documentation of the medical condition requiring care shall
be submitted.
         (g)   After the initial two-year period, the petitioner may renew the
permit for one year by providing updated documentation of the continuing
medical condition to staff.
         (h)   The manufactured home must be removed as soon as it is no longer
needed for the care arrangement or upon expiration of the permit.
      (2)   The Board may approve as a conditional use a manufactured home as a
temporary residence on a parcel where a permanent single-family dwelling is to
be constructed, subject to the following criteria:
         (a)   A permanent residence is intended to be built within two years;
         (b)   The manufactured home shall remain on its wheels and not to be
placed on a permanent foundation;
         (c)   Applicable side and front setback regulations of the district in
which it is located shall be observed;
         (d)   Occupancy of the manufactured home is restricted to the property
owner who intends to construct or have constructed a permanent residence on the
site;
         (e)   After the initial two-year period, the petitioner may renew the
permit for one year by providing updated documentation of the continuing need
to staff; and
         (f)   When construction of the permanent residence is completed the
manufactured home must be removed within 30 calendar days after occupancy of
the permanent residence begins.
   (B)   Permanent dwelling units. The Board may approve as a conditional use a
manufactured home, which does not qualify as a permitted use, in districts R-1,
R-A, R-2, C-2, A-1 and A-2 as a permanent single-family dwelling in those
districts in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   The minimum allowable size of a manufactured home shall be 950
square feet in those districts designated as R-1, R-2, R-A and C-2.
      (2)   The minimum allowable size of a manufactured home shall be 720
square feet in those districts designated as A-1 and A-2.
   (C)   Application requirements.
      (1)   An application for approval of a manufactured home must be
completed for the Board and submitted to the staff ten working days prior to
the hearing. The manufactured home application should include the following:
         (a)   Clear and recognizable photographs of the current condition of
the exterior, entryways and interior of the home;
         (b)   Certification of the age of the home; and
         (c)   A public hearing will be held to approve or disapprove the home.
This hearing must be advertised in a local newspaper with general circulation
and a letter must also be sent to all adjacent landowners ten working days
prior to the hearing. These letters will include contact information such as
the executive director’s name and phone number.
   (D)   Structural requirements.
      (1)   Manufactured homes may not be structurally altered in any manner,
may not be
combined, and no additions may be made to them unless the modifications are
certified by an appropriately licensed professional to meet all applicable
Building Codes.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall meet all public health and safety
requirements, including water supply and sewage disposal.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.111  MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Purpose. In certain zoning districts, manufactured home parks are
permitted to provide decent affordable housing within standards of livability
that accord with the purposes of health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Manufactured home parks may contain manufactured homes
and any of the following accessory uses; provided that they are subordinate to
the residential character of the park, they are located, designed and intended
to serve only the needs of persons living in the park, and the establishments
shall present no visible evidence of their business nature to areas outside the
park:
      (1)   Management offices;
      (2)   Storage;
      (3)   Mini-warehouses;
      (4)   Laundry and dry cleaning facilities;
      (5)   One accessory structure, such as a mini-barn, per site, in addition
to a carport or a private garage;
      (6)   Model manufactured homes as sales units, provided that no more than
10% of the authorized number of units in the park may be model units; and
      (7)   Other structures customarily incidental to manufactured home parks.
   (C)   Development standards. Manufactured home parks shall be in accordance
with I.C. 16-1I-27-1 et seq., Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-6 and their subsequent
amendments, the State Board of Health regulations and the requirements of this
chapter.
      (1)   Foundations. Each manufactured home must be tied down and have
perimeter skirting.
      (2)   Project and lot size.
         (a)   Project size: five acres;
         (b)   Project frontage: 50 feet; and
         (c)   Access points: If there are 40 or more manufactured homes in a
development, two access points shall be required.
      (3)   Lot or site size.
         (a)   Area. The minimum manufactured site size shall be 4,000 square
feet, except that the site size may be less than 4,000 square feet if the
amount by which the site size is reduced is devoted to common open space and
the site size is not less than 3,200 square feet.
         (b)   Width. The minimum width of a manufactured home site shall be 30
feet.
      (4)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Front. Each manufactured home park shall have all units and
structures set back at least 25 feet from any public street bordering the park.
On private interior streets, each unit or structure shall be set back at least
10 feet from edge of pavement.
         (b)   Side and rear. Five feet for a structure up to 20 feet in
height, seven and one-half feet for a structure higher than 20 feet but less
than or equal to 30 feet.
      (5)   Height.
         (a)   The maximum height for a principal structure is 30 feet.
         (b)   The maximum height for accessory structures is 15 feet.
      (6)   Open space.
         (a)   A minimum of 400 square feet per site shall be dedicated to open
space, a portion of which shall be an active recreational area, or one-quarter
acre, whichever is greater.
         (b)   Open space shall be configured for the activity for which it is
designed.
      (7)   Off-street parking.
         (a)   Two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. The
spaces shall be adjacent to or conveniently near each manufactured home site.
         (b)   Guest parking spaces or overflow parking spaces shall be
provided as regulated in Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-6 and its subsequent amendments,
shall be distributed evenly throughout the park.
      (8)   Public improvements.
         (a)   Manufactured home parks shall be permitted only if the public
streets, drainage facilities and utilities are adequate to serve the proposed
development. Adequate measures will be taken to provide ingress and egress so
designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets. Any public or
private streets that will be improved to serve the manufactured home park shall
be developed under the same requirements as those outlined for streets in
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances. Drainage facilities shall be designed
and approved as outlined in the appropriate city or county drainage ordinance.
Public utilities shall have sufficient capacity to serve the development.
         (b)   When public improvements are developed, the developer or
authorized representative shall be required to post financial guarantees of
performance and maintenance for the improvements under the same bond
requirements as those outlined in
Chapter 150 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
PARKING AND LOADING
§ 152.125  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. Accessory off-street parking and loading facilities shall be
provided and maintained for all buildings, structures or premises used in whole
or in part for purposes permitted by this chapter. These regulations are
designed to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public streets by
establishing minimum requirements for on-site storage of motor vehicles in
accordance with the use to which the property is occupied.
   (B)   Existing uses.
      (1)   No use lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
chapter shall be required to provide and maintain the parking and loading
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   For any non-conforming use which is hereafter damaged or partially
destroyed, and which is lawfully reconstructed, reestablished or repaired, off-
street parking and loading facilities equivalent to those maintained at the
time of the damage or partial destruction shall be restored and continued in
operation; provided that in no case shall it be necessary to restore or
maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this
chapter for equivalent new uses.
      (3)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises
shall be increased through the addition of dwelling units, floor area, beds,
seating capacity or other unit of measurement, parking and loading facilities
as required in this chapter shall be provided for the increase in intensity of
use.
      (4)   Whenever the existing use of a building, structure or premises
shall hereafter be changed or converted to a new use permitted by this chapter,
parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required for such new use.
      (5)   Accessory off-street parking or loading facilities in existence on
the effective date of this chapter shall not hereafter be reduced below, or if
already less than shall not be further reduced below, the requirements for a
similar new use under this chapter.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary
establishment of accessory off-street parking or loading facilities to serve
any existing use of land or buildings; provided that all regulations herein
governing the location, design and operation of the facilities are adhered to.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Accessory off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided
on the same lot as the use served, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, and may be situated as one or more individual areas.
      (2)   Accessory off-street parking facilities for separate uses may be
provided collectively if the total number of spaces so provided is not less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each use; provided that all
regulations governing location of accessory parking spaces, in relation to the
use served, are adhered to; provided further that no parking space or portion
thereof shall serve as a required space for more than one use unless otherwise
authorized by the Board.
   (D)   Parking utilization. Accessory off-street parking facilities required
in this section shall be utilized solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles or light trucks of less than one-ton capacity, of patrons,
occupants or employees of specified uses. The parking facilities shall not be
used for the storage, display, sales, repair, dismantling or wrecking of any
vehicle, equipment or material.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.126  PARKING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Each required off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet in
width and at least 18 feet in length, exclusive of access drives or aisles,
ramps, columns or office or work areas. The space shall have adequate vertical
clearance. For parallel parking, the length of the parking space shall be
increased to 23 feet.
   (B)   Each required off-street loading space shall be of a size not less
than that required for an off-street parking space, but scaled larger for
delivery vehicles expected to be used, logically and conveniently located for
bulk pickups and deliveries, and accessible to the vehicles when required off-
street parking spaces are filled.
   (C)   (1)   Except on lots occupied by one- and two-family dwellings, each
off-street parking space shall open directly upon an aisle or driveway at least
12 feet wide. The aisle or driveway shall be unobstructed and allow for the
passage of emergency vehicles at all times. In order to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to the parking space, the additional width
and design required in parking spaces shall be in accordance with the following
exhibit:
 
Parking Aisle Widths
Parking Angle Aisle Width
45 degrees    14 feet
60 degrees    18 feet
90 degrees    24 feet
 
      (2)   The parking angle shall be measured between the center line of the
parking space and the center line of the aisle.
   (D)   All off-street parking or loading facilities shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner that
least interferes with traffic movement.
   (E)   The minimum required number of off-street parking or loading spaces
shall be calculated as follows.
      (1)   If the unit of measurement is any fraction of the unit specified in
relation to the number of spaces to be provided, the fraction shall be
considered as being the next unit and shall be counted as requiring one space.
      (2)   In sports arenas, churches and other places of assembly in which
patrons occupy benches, pews or other similar seating facilities, each 20
inches of the seating shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of
determining requirements hereunder.
      (3)   In the case of open floor areas used for temporary seating
purposes, an area of 16 square feet usable for seating shall be counted as one
seat for the purpose of determining requirements hereunder.
      (4)   For uses involving more than one activity (i.e., manufacturing and
office, office and retail, automobile service and convenience store), the
requirements for each use shall be calculated separately and then aggregated.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.127  OFF-SITE PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Required off-street parking facilities shall be provided on site
according to §
152.128, except as provided in this section.
   (B)   The Board is authorized to grant an off-site or shared parking
facility as a conditional use.
      (1)   A site development plan for an off-site parking facility shall be
filed with the staff as a required exhibit accompanying the conditional use
petition and shall be made part of the conditions of any approval therefore.
The site development plan shall demonstrate compliance with all applicable
standards of this chapter and shall indicate:
         (a)   Adjacent streets, alleys and lots;
         (b)   All individual principal uses to be served, including the
location, use and number of parking spaces for each use; and
         (c)   A layout drawn to scale of aisles and driveways, entrances,
exits and turnoff lanes, parking spaces, setbacks, drainage facilities and
landscaping.
      (2)   Off-site parking facilities shall be encumbered by an instrument
duly executed and acknowledged, which subject the accessory off-street parking
facilities to parking uses in connection with the principal use served. The
instrument shall specify and bind the time period to the anticipated life of
the building or use to which the parking facilities are accessory. The
instrument shall be recorded in the applicable zoning compliance permit files
of the Commission and placed of public record in the office of the County
Recorder.
   (C)   In the C-2 district any or all of the parking may be off-site,
provided that there are public parking lots available within 900 feet of the
use to be served. On-street parking may be counted toward the parking
requirements in this district.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.128  MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Uses not specified. For uses not specified in this section or in such
instance when the requirement for an adequate number of spaces is unclear, the
number of parking spaces shall be determined by the administrative official on
the basis of similar requirements, the number of persons served or employed,
and the capability of adequately serving the visiting public. The determination
may be appealed to the Board.
   (B)   Conflict. In case of conflict between the provisions of this section,
the higher requirements shall govern.
   (C)   Minimum. The minimum number of required off-street parking spaces
shall be as indicated in the following table.
Parking Space Requirements
Use Minimum Number of Required Spaces
Parking Space Requirements
Use                                                 Minimum Number of Required Spaces
                                                    No requirement, except for
                                                    roadside stands and other
Agricultural uses                                   commercial or similar uses, when
                                                    there shall be an adequate number
                                                    of spaces to serve the public
Amusement uses, including skating rinks, video      1 space for each 500 square feet
arcades, pool and billiard rooms and similar        of gross floor area
facilities
Automobile repair uses, including muffler shops,
tire shops, quick lubricating, and other similar    2.5 spaces for each service bay
uses
Bowling alleys                                      4 spaces for each lane
Child care uses, including child care homes, child
care centers, day care centers, nurseries and       1 space for each 5 children
kindergartens and similar uses
Church uses                                         1 space for each 3 seats in the
                                                    sanctuary
Commercial centers
   Less than 50,000 square feet                  1 space for each 200 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
   50,000 square feet or larger                  1 space for each 250 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
Community center uses, including clubs, lodges,     1 space for each 100 square feet
community centers, libraries, museums and similar   of assembly area
places of assembly
                                                    1 space for each 400 square feet
Drive-through uses (other than restaurants),        of gross floor area, plus stacking
including banks, dry cleaners, and similar uses     spaces as required in §
                                                    152.130
Mortuaries and funeral services                     1 space for each 35 square feet of
                                                    seating area
Group housing, including rooming and boarding       1 space for each 2 beds, sleeping
houses, dormitories, fraternities and sororities,   units, rooming units or dwelling
group homes, adult care homes, elderly housing,     units plus 1 space for each 100
halfway houses, nursing homes and similar group     square feet of assembly or common
quarters                                            area
Health club uses, including athletic clubs and spas 1 space for each 400 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
Health uses, including hospitals, in-patient        1 space for each patient bed
clinics and similar uses
                                                    0.8 spaces for each student, based
                                                    upon the maximum number of
Higher education uses, including colleges,          students attending classes on the
universities, professional schools, junior colleges premises during any 24-hour
and vocational schools                              period. If the school provides on-
                                                    site housing, this requirement may
                                                    be reduced to 0.5 spaces for each
                                                    student
Hotel uses, including hotels, motels, apartment
hotels and other facilities for the transient       1 space for each guest room
public
Industrial uses, including manufacturing and
similar uses, not catering to the retail trade
   Less than 3,000 square feet                   1 space for each 250 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
   3,000 to 5,000 square feet                    1 space for each 500 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
   5,001 to 10,000 square feet                   1 space for each 750 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
   More than 10,000 square feet                  1 space for each 1,250 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
Open air business uses                              1 space for each 1,000 square feet
                                                    of outdoor storage or display area
Professional office uses
   Medical and dental                            1 space for each 200 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
   Other                                         1 space for each 300 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
Residential uses
   Single-family or two-family                   2 spaces per dwelling unit
                                                    1.5 spaces for each one-bedroom or
   Multi-family                                  efficiency unit; 2 spaces for each
                                                    2-bedroom unit, plus 0.25 guest
                                                    spaces per unit
Restaurant uses
                                                    1 space for each 75 square feet of
   Drive-through or fast-food                    gross floor area plus stacking
                                                    spaces as required by §
                                                    152.130
   General                                       1 space for each 100 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
Retail uses
   Furniture, appliances or other large consumer 1 space for each 500 square feet
goods                                               of gross floor area
   Convenience stores                            1 space for each 200 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
   Other retail                                  1 space for each 250 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
Schools
   Elementary or middle school                   3 spaces for each classroom
   High school                                   8 spaces for each classroom
Theater uses, including auditoriums, movie
theaters, performing arts facilities and sports     1 space for each 4 seats
arenas
Warehouses and storage units; General               1 space for each 750 square feet
                                                    of gross floor area
 
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.129  LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Uses and buildings with a gross floor area of less than 5,000 square
feet shall provide adequate receiving facilities, so as not to obstruct the
free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street or alley.
   (B)   Uses and buildings with a gross floor area of 5,000 square feet or
more shall provide off-street loading spaces in accordance with the following
exhibit.
Loading Space Requirements
Use Floor Area (sq. ft.) Min. No. of Loading Spaces
Loading Space Requirements
Use                          Floor Area (sq. ft.)    Min. No. of Loading Spaces
Manufacturing, distribution, 5,000 - 25,000          1
wholesaling, storage and     25,001 - 60,000         2
similar uses                 60,001 - 100,000        3
                             Each additional 50,000  1
Office buildings, hotels,    5,000 - 60,000          1
retail sales, commercial     60,001 - 100,000        2
centers, hospitals and       Each additional 100,000 1
similar uses
 
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.130  VEHICLE STACKING AREAS.
   (A)   Number of spaces. Vehicle stacking spaces shall be provided as
specified herein.
Stacking Spaces
Activity Type Minimum Stacking Spaces Measured From
Stacking Spaces
Activity Type             Minimum Stacking Spaces Measured From
Automated teller machine  3                       Teller
Bank teller lane          4                       Teller or window
Car wash stall, automatic 6                       Entrance
Car wash stall, self-     3                       Entrance
service
Gasoline pump island      2                       Pump island
Restaurant drive-through  6                       Order box
                          4                       Order box to pick-up window
Other                     Minimum of 2 per window
 
   (B)   Stacking space specifications.
      (1)   Size. Stacking spaces must be a minimum of eight feet by 20 feet in
size.
      (2)   Location. Stacking spaces may not impede on or off-site traffic
movements or movements into or out of off-street parking spaces.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.131  ACCESSIBLE PARKING FOR PHYSICALLY CHALLENGED PERSONS.
   (A)   General. A portion of the total number of required off-street parking
spaces in each off-street parking area shall be specifically designated,
located and reserved for use by persons with physical challenges.
   (B)   Minimum number of spaces. The minimum number of accessible spaces to
be provided shall be a portion of the total number of off-street parking spaces
required, as determined from the following exhibit. Parking spaces reserved for
persons with physical challenges shall be counted toward fulfilling off-street
parking standards.
Accessible Parking
Total Parking Spaces Minimum Number of Minimum Number of Minimum Number of
Provided             Accessible Spaces Van-Accessible    Car-Accessible Spaces
                                       Spaces
Accessible Parking
Total Parking Spaces Minimum Number of  Minimum Number of Minimum Number of
Provided             Accessible Spaces  Van-Accessible    Car-Accessible Spaces
                                        Spaces
1-25                 1                  1                 0
26-50                2                  1                 1
51-75                3                  1                 2
76-100               4                  1                 3
101-150              5                  1                 4
151-200              6                  1                 5
201-300              7                  1                 6
301-400              8                  1                 7
401-500              9                  2                 7
501-1,000            2% of total spaces 1 out of every 8  7 out of every 8
Over 1,000           20+1 per each 100  accessible spaces accessible spaces
                     spaces over 1,000
 
   (C)   Minimum dimensions. All parking spaces reserved for persons with
physical challenges shall comply with the parking space dimension standards of
this section; provided that access aisles shall be provided immediately
abutting the spaces, as follows.
      (1)   Car-accessible spaces. Car-accessible spaces shall have at least a
five-foot wide access aisle located abutting the designated parking space.
      (2)   Van-accessible spaces. Van-accessible spaces shall have at least an
eight-foot wide access aisle located abutting the designated parking space.
   (D)   Location of spaces. Required spaces for persons with physical
challenges shall be located in close proximity to building entrances and shall
be designed to permit occupants of vehicles to reach the building entrance on
an unobstructed path.
   (E)   Signs and marking. Required spaces for persons with physical
challenges shall be identified with signs and pavement markings identifying
them as reserved for persons with physical challenges. Signs shall be posted
directly in front of the parking space at a height of no less than 42 inches
and no more than 72 inches above pavement level.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.132  PARKING AND LOADING SPACE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All loading areas and all off-street parking areas for four or more
vehicles shall be developed in accordance with the standards of this section,
except in the case of one- and two-family dwellings, agricultural and rural
uses and storage of vehicular merchandise not counting toward the minimum
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Required off-street parking spaces shall be so designed, arranged and
regulated as to have individual spaces marked, be unobstructed and have access
to an aisle or driveway so that any automobile may be moved without moving
another, and so that no maneuvering directly incidental to entering or leaving
a parking space shall be on any public right-of-way or walkway.
   (C)   Off-street parking spaces may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
building. In any instance when a building is constructed or used by parking
facilities on the zone lot, the building shall be treated as any major
structure and subject to all requirements thereof.
   (D)   No repair work, sales or service of any kind shall be permitted in
association with accessory off-street parking facilities unless the facilities
are enclosed in a building and otherwise permitted in the zone district.
   (E)   All open off-street parking and loading areas, including driveways and
other circulation areas, shall be surfaced with an all-weather paving material
capable of carrying a wheel load of 4,000 pounds, or improved with concrete or
a compacted macadam base and surfaced with an asphalt pavement, to adequately
provide a durable and dust-free surface which shall be maintained in good
condition and free of weeds, dirt, trash and debris.
   (F)   (1)   Driveway entrances or exits shall be no closer than 25 feet to
an adjoining residential property line or ten feet to an adjoining non-
residential property line or designed in a manner as to least interfere with
traffic movement.
      (2)   No driveway across public property at the right-of-way line shall
exceed a width of 30 feet; provided that two driveways not exceeding 30 feet in
width each may constitute a single entrance-exit divider designed driveway;
provided further that the driveways shall conform to the requirements of
engineering departments having jurisdiction thereof.
   (G)   (1)   Any lighting facilities used to illuminate off-street parking
areas shall be so located, shielded and directed upon the parking area in such
a manner that they do not reflect or cause glare onto adjacent properties or
interfere with street traffic.
      (2)   In no instance shall bare, unshaded bulbs be used for the
illumination.
   (H)   Parking areas shall be graded and properly drained in such a manner
that there will be no free flow of water onto either adjacent property or
public sidewalks.
   (I)   Parking areas shall be so lined or designated as to ensure the most
efficient use of the parking spaces and shall be provided with bumper guards or
wheel guards so located that no part of the parked vehicle will extend beyond
the boundary of the established parking area into any minimum required setback
area or onto any adjoining property.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
SIGNS AND ADVERTISING STRUCTURES
§ 152.145  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-601, this subchapter
contains requirements that are intended to further the goals of the
comprehensive plan. These regulations are intended to promote traffic safety
and to protect the visual appearance of the county, specifically as follows:
      (1)   To avoid proliferation of signs;
      (2)   To maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment of the county;
      (3)   To encourage signs to be compatible with the design of buildings
and with the surrounding area;
      (4)   Encourage simplicity and readability of signs;
      (5)   Encourage employment of the principles of good design in community
development; and
      (6)   To enhance economic development and growth.
   (B)   It is the intent of this subchapter to encourage the design and
placement of signs that are all of the following:
      (1)   Legible and effective for communication in the circumstances in
which they are seen;
      (2)   Appropriate to the activity that displays them;
      (3)   Expressive of both the individual activity and the community as a
whole; and
      (4)   Compatible with their surroundings.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.146  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING STRUCTURE. Any off premise notice, advertisement, billboard,
pictorial or otherwise, used as an outdoor display for the purpose of
advertising the property or the establishment or enterprise, including goods
and services. These structures are not allowed within any R-1 district or
within the corporate limits of the City of Vincennes. These structures are
considered conditional uses in all other areas. Furthermore, these structures
shall meet all building and sign requirements. The term ADVERTISING STRUCTURE
under this chapter does not include a "sign", as defined later in this section.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. Any use qualifying as a "farm" under the terms of this
chapter.
   AREA. The total area of the face that is used to display a sign, not
including its supporting poles or structures. If a sign has two faces that are
parallel and supported by the same poles or structures, only one face is
counted. If a sign has two or more faces that are supported by the same poles
or structures but are not parallel, the AREA of the sign is the total area of
all faces.
   BANNER. A sign on a lightweight fabric, or similar non-rigid material, that
is attached by at least two corners of the sign, to a building or structure.
Flags of any country, state, unit of local government, institution of higher
learning, or similar institution are not considered to be BANNERS.
   COMMERCIAL CENTER. For purposes of this subchapter only, a COMMERCIAL CENTER
is any building or combination of buildings with more than one occupant or
business on a single lot.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business,
industry, product, service or other similar activity.
   COMMUNITY EVENT SIGN. A temporary sign identifying a community event. The
sign may include the place, dates and times of a community event
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign containing the name(s) of an architect,
contractor, financial institution, engineer, vendor or similar information,
displayed on property during construction of a building or project.
   FLAG. A rectangular, square or similarly shaped piece of lightweight fabric
of distinctive design that is used as a symbol of a nation, governmental
entity, business, institution, organization or similar entity.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign which in whole or in part, physically changes in
light intensity or gives the appearance of such change at intervals of less
than six seconds.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign supported by one or more uprights, posts or bases
placed upon or affixed in the ground and not attached to any part of a
building.
   HEIGHT (FREESTANDING SIGN). The distance measured in a vertical plane from
grade at the edge of pavement of the adjacent street from which the property
has immediate access to the highest point of the sign.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A freestanding sign placed on a solid base directly on the
ground.
   NAMEPLATE. A sign containing the name of the occupant or building and/or the
address of the site.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. A sign that is not in compliance with this chapter on
either of the following dates:
      (1)   The date of the original enactment; or
      (2)   Any date on which this chapter is amended.
   OFF-STREET PARKING AREA. An area used solely for parking that is 40 feet or
more in depth.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign that is attached to the ground or to a building in
such a manner that it is not intended to be frequently removed or replaced and
is not a portable or temporary sign as defined in this chapter.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign attached to and projecting from the wall or similar
element of a building and not in the same plane as the wall.
   SIGN.
      (1)   Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise, used as an
outdoor display for the purpose of advertising the property or the
establishment or enterprise, including goods and services, upon which the sign
is exhibited.
      (2)   The term SIGN , under this chapter, does not include an
“advertising structure”, as defined earlier in this section.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A window, wall, beacon or other sign attached to a building
or placed on the ground and displayed for a fixed limited period of time.
   WALL SIGN. A sign painted on or attached to a wall of a building in the same
plane as the wall.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign applied, painted or affixed to, or in the window of a
building and clearly visible from the street, alley or parking area. A WINDOW
SIGN may be temporary or permanent.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.147  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Permits required. Improvement location permits shall be required for
all new signs, except those exempt signs listed in §
152.148. Maintenance, touch-up, repainting or repair of a legal sign shall not
require a sign permit.
   (B)   Location of signs. All signs shall be located on the same lot as the
use to which it is associated.
   (C)   Setbacks for signs and advertising structures.
      (1)   All signs and advertising structures shall have a minimum setback
of eight feet on interior lots.
      (2)   All signs and advertising structures on corner lots shall adhere to
the sight "visibility triangle" requirements outlined in §
152.022.
      (3)   No part of any sign shall encroach upon the above minimum setbacks.
   (D)   Height and area limitations.
      (1)   All signs in agricultural zoned areas shall have a maximum height
of ten feet and a maximum area of 40 square feet.
      (2)   All signs in commercial and industrial zoned areas shall have a
maximum height of 35 feet, a maximum area of 100 square feet and a maximum
width of ten feet.
   (E)   Permanent signs.
      (1)   All signs and advertising structures shall be permanent in nature,
except for those signs allowed as temporary signs in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   On each property where signs are permitted, there shall be no more
than one freestanding or monument sign per 50 feet of street frontage.
      (3)   The number of wall signs is not limited; provided that the
aggregate size of all wall signs does not exceed 100 square feet and signs to
do not cover more than 50% of any wall.
   (F)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Temporary signs containing commercial messages are permitted for a
maximum of 90 calendar days in any 12-month period.
      (2)   Non-commercial temporary signs, including community event signs,
are permitted for such length of time as the staff finds appropriate to the
purpose of the sign.
   (G)   Obsolete signs. Signs that identify businesses, goods or services no
longer provided on the premises shall be removed within 90 calendar days after
the business ceases.
   (H)   Illumination. Illumination of all signs shall comply with the
following standards.
      (1)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded, shielded
and directed that the light intensity does not generate glare onto nearby
residential areas between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
      (2)   Neither the direct nor the reflected light from primary light
sources shall create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public
thoroughfares or approaches to public thoroughfares.
      (3)   No exposed reflective type bulbs or incandescent lamps that exceed
40 watts shall be used on the exterior surface of a sign.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.148  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following signs are exempt from improvement location permit
requirements:
   (A)   Safety and information signs. Signs erected by or on the order of a
public officer, such as but not limited to safety signs, danger signs,
trespassing signs, traffic signs, memorial plaques, signs of historical
interest, informational signs and the like;
   (B)   Architectural signs. Names of buildings, dates of erection, monumental
citations, commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stone, concrete
or similar material or made of metal, bronze, aluminum or other permanent type
construction and made an integral part of the structure;
   (C)   Real estate signs.
      (1)   One sign per street frontage advertising the sale or lease of the
property on which the sign is located, not to exceed 32 square feet in area on
the following properties:
         (a)   Parcels three acres or larger in size; and
         (b)   Commercial, industrial or institutional parcels or multi-family
dwellings containing more than four dwelling units.
      (2)   One sign per street frontage advertising the sale or lease of the
property on which the sign is located, not to exceed six square feet in area,
on residential parcels less than three acres in size.
   (D)   Construction signs.
      (1)   In a commercial, institutional, industrial or multi-family area or
a subdivision containing more than three lots, one sign not to exceed 32 square
feet in area displayed on a construction site during the construction period,
not to exceed 18 months.
      (2)   In one or two-family residential areas, one sign not to exceed six
square feet in area on a residential construction site displayed during
construction, not to exceed six months. If the sign identifies more than two
entities, the size may be increased to 16 square feet.
   (E)   Flags. Flags of any country, state, unit of local government,
institution of higher learning, or similar institutional flags. No commercial
messages or logos are permitted on the flags. Flags containing commercial
messages are considered to be signs and count toward the total number and area
of signs allowed on the premises under the terms of this chapter;
   (F)   Flags or banners.
      (1)   The flags or banners contain colors and/or graphic designs only,
with no commercial message.
      (2)   For flags or banners which are displayed on poles not attached to a
building, there shall be no more than one flag for each 2,500 square feet of
parking or open space area, and each flag may be no more than 32 square feet in
area.
      (3)   Flags that are attached to buildings or to poles attached to
buildings may not exceed 32 square feet in area, and the flags or poles to
which the flags are attached shall be spaced at least ten feet apart.
   (G)   Political signs;
   (H)   Holiday decorations;
   (I)   Barber poles;
   (J)   Street numbers. Street numbers of 12 inches or less in height;
   (K)   Nameplates. Nameplates no larger than two square feet in area for one-
or two-family dwellings and no larger than four square feet in area for other
uses;
   (L)   Agricultural signs. Agricultural signs such as those indicating the
types of seeds or other agricultural products used on the premises;
   (M)   Merchandise display. Merchandise displays, located within buildings,
but which are visible from a street or parking area; provided, there are no
signs within the display that are designed or intended to be read from a
street;
   (N)   Decals. Credit card decals, store hour specifications, "open" or
"closed" signs, or similar signs that do not exceed an aggregate area of four
square feet. These are included in the percentage of temporary or permanent
window signs permitted;
   (O)   Help wanted. "Help Wanted" signs not to exceed six square feet in
area, on non-residential parcels;
   (P)   Visible. Signs which are not visible or are not intended to be read
from a public right-of-way or parking area; and
   (Q)   To be determined. Other signs that are determined by the staff to be
similar in nature and intent to those listed in this section.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.149  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited in the county:
   (A)   Signs that contain or are an imitation of an official traffic sign or
signal or contain the words "stop", "go slow", "caution", "danger", "warning"
or similar words;
   (B)   Signs that are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring or
manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed as a traffic
control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign or signal;
   (C)   Signs that contain or consist of portable signs, tent signs and
strings of light bulbs not permanently mounted on a rigid background;
   (D)   Signs that swing or otherwise move as a result of wind pressure
because of the manner of their suspension or attachment;
   (E)   Signs placed in any public right-of-way (other than official
government signs), on any curb, sidewalk, post, pole, hydrant, bridge, tree or
other surface located on public property including the posting of handbills;
and
   (F)   Advertising structures within the corporate limits of the City of
Vincennes.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 152.160  PURPOSE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter is intended to regulate the construction, placement and
modification of telecommunication facilities; to preserve the aesthetic
character of the county and surrounding jurisdiction and to minimize the land
use impact of the facilities while providing the community with the benefit of
new technological advances in telecommunications; to promote long-range
planning between the county, city and towns and the providers of
telecommunications and among the providers of communications; and to protect
the public health, safety and general welfare of the community and to further
the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan, by:
   (A)   Encouraging the location of new towers in non-residential areas;
   (B)   Avoiding damage to the adjacent properties from tower failure by
requiring structural standards and setback distances;
   (C)   Minimizing the adverse visual effects of towers through careful design
and site standards;
   (D)   Maintaining and enhancing the aesthetic environment of the county;
   (E)   Reducing the proliferation of towers through tower-share requirements
for all new construction and those existing towers that are physically capable
of sharing;
   (F)   Encouraging the use of already existing structures, whether publicly
or privately owned, such as water towers, silos, steeples and other tall
structures as prime sites for new antenna sites;
   (G)   Discouraging the site of telecommunication facilities in residential
and agricultural areas;
   (H)   Providing for the site of telecommunication facilities which may
deviate from the regulations of this section upon approval of the Commission or
Board, as appropriate; and
   (I)   Providing for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.161  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., as
amended from time to time, including the Telecommunications Act of 1996, being
47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Human-made structures such as clock towers,
steeples, light poles, roof tops, antennas integrated into existing
architecture or similar alternative designed mounting structures or methods
that camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   ANTENNA. Any exterior apparatus designed to send and/or receive
electromagnetic waves for the purpose of telephonic, radio or television
communications.
   CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS. A commercial wireless radio service licensed by
the Federal Communications Commissions which provides telecommunications
service permitting customers to use wireless telephone technology such as, but
not limited to, portable phones, pagers, faxes and computers.
   CO-LOCATION. Locating telecommunication facilities from more than one
provider on a single site or structure.
   FCC. Federal Communications Commission, or any successor thereto.
   LATTICE TOWER. A self supported three or four sided, open, steel frame
structure, which is intended for receiving or transmitting any form of
electronic communication.
   MONOPOLE TOWER. A communication tower consisting of a single pole,
constructed without guy wires and ground anchors, which is intended for
receiving or transmitting any form of electronic communication.
   STEALTH FACILITY. Any telecommunications facility which is designed to blend
into the surrounding environment; including, but not limited to,
architecturally screened roof-mounted antennas, building-mounted antennas
painted to match the existing structure or integrated into existing
architectural elements, towers designed to look like trees or designed to look
like light poles, silos or other human-made structure.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A cellular telecommunications facility
consisting of any of the equipment and structures involved in transmitting
signals for cellular telecommunications.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from grade level to the highest
point of the structure.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.162  PERMITTED TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Telecommunication facilities meeting the following requirements shall
constitute permitted uses in industrial zoning districts:
      (1)   The telecommunications facility is designed, constructed and placed
to minimize the visual impact by one of the following:
         (a)   Use of an alternative tower structure;
         (b)   Co-location;
         (c)   Use of a stealth facility;
         (d)   If new construction, structurally designed and capable of
allowing other carriers to co-locate on the tower structure;
         (e)   The use of color or camouflaging architectural treatment; and
         (f)   The telecommunications facility is located on public land or in
the public right-of-way as set forth in §
152.167.
      (2)   Notwithstanding anything else in this chapter, the tower height for
a stand-alone tower shall not exceed 60 feet if it is designed to accommodate
only one service provider; 100 feet if it is designed to accommodate only two
service providers; and 300 feet if it is designed to accommodate more than two
providers.
      (3)   Telecommunication facilities attached to other structures shall not
exceed the greater of:
         (a)   The height requirement in the zoning district which they are
located by more than ten feet; or
         (b)   The height of the structure on which the facilities are attached
by more than 20 feet, without a variance. The Board may grant a variance only
if the applicant provides a report from a registered professional engineer with
a specialization in cellular telecommunications as to the minimum tower height
needed by the applicant, evidence that there are no other suitable structures
for co-location that meet the applicant's requirements, and, if requested by
staff, a visual impact analysis required by §
152.164(E).
      (4)   If the property is being leased, the provider shall enter into a
written easement agreement with the owner of the property, which shall include
a platted area for the location of the telecommunications facility, which shall
be duly recorded. If the property is owned or leased by the provider, unless
the telecommunications facility is attached to an already existing structure,
the platted area for the tower shall be the only use permitted on the platted
easement or property.
      (5)   All new tower construction shall be monopole towers or stealth
facilities, unless the applicant provides a written report from a registered
professional engineer, with a specialization in geotechnical engineering, that
the cost of such a tower at the site be twice the normal cost of constructing a
monopole tower due to specific conditions present at the site. Any proposed
alternative shall be a lattice tower and shall meet the standards in §
152.165. At its discretion, the Commission may hire an independent consultant
at the expense of the applicant, to determine if the report is complete and
correct.
   (B)   Alternative tower structures shall be permitted in all districts if
the structures are designed and placed to minimize the visual impact of the
structure, or if placed on existing structures do not exceed the height of the
existing structure by more than 20 feet. In all cases, the structures shall
meet all other zoning requirements.
   (C)   Telecommunication facilities shall be permitted in all districts if
located on public land or in the public right-of-way as set forth in §
152.167.
   (D)   All applications for an improvement location permit for a
telecommunication facility shall provide the staff with the following items,
along with the other requirements of the zoning compliance certificate
application:
      (1)   Written approval from, or a certified copy of any necessary
application to, all relevant federal and state agencies including, but not
limited to, the Federal Aviation Administration (including a copy of the FAA’s
response to the “Notice of Proposed Construction or Alteration” (FAA Form 7460-
1) or any successor thereto), the Federal Communications Commission, the U.S.
Environment Protection Agency and the State Department of Environmental
Management;
      (2)   A list of the applicant’s existing facilities within jurisdiction
of the county, and a master plan setting forth any potential future
telecommunication facilities in the county. This list shall include specific
information as to the location (by address and state plane coordinates),
height, design, the technical feasibility of allowing other providers to co-
locate on the facility and the terms and conditions for co-location on the
facility;
      (3)   In the case of a new tower facility, the information required in §
152.164; and
      (4)   Any telecommunications facility required by the state, county, city
or town for emergency purposes shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.163  TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES AS AN ACCESSORY USE.
   Antennas and other telecommunication facilities may constitute an accessory
use in non-industrial districts if the telecommunications facilities use an
alternative tower structure, as defined in §
152.161, or if the telecommunications facilities are co-located with an already
existing telecommunications facility. If located on the roof of an associated
principal building, the building must be at least three stories high, and the
telecommunications facilities may exceed the height restrictions of the
applicable district by a maximum of 20 feet.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.164  TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES AS A CONDITIONAL USE.
   All telecommunication facilities not meeting the criteria set forth in §§
152.162 and
152.163 shall require a conditional use permit. Each application for a
conditional use shall include the following:
   (A)   In the case of a new tower structure, evidence demonstrating that no
existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna.
Evidence shall consist of at least one of the following:
      (1)   Evidence that there are no existing towers or structures meeting
the applicant's engineering requirements within the geographic area that the
antenna is intended to serve;
      (2)   If there are towers or structures in the geographic area, evidence
that the towers or structures do not have sufficient height or structural
strength to meet the applicant's engineering requirements;
      (3)   Evidence that the applicant's proposed antenna would cause
electromagnetic (EMF) interference with the antenna of existing towers or
structures or vice versa;
      (4)   A financial analysis that the fees, costs or contractual provisions
required by the owner of the property in order to co-locate, or to adapt an
existing tower or structure to make it suitable for co-location, exceeds the
cost of new tower development. The analysis shall include written lease/cost
estimates from the owner of the tower or structure;
      (5)   Evidence as to the minimum height of tower needed by the applicant,
taking into account the need for a higher tower for co-location purposes; and
      (6)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other factors that render
existing towers unusable.
   (B)   In the case of a new tower development or the use of an existing
structure as a telecommunications tower for the first time, a notarized letter
of intent committing the owner and any lessee, on behalf of themselves and
their successors in interest, that the tower structure shall be shared with
additional users;
   (C)   In the case of a new tower structure, such structure shall be a
monopole tower, except as provided in §
152.162(A)(5). If feasible, the tower shall be designed as a stealth facility.
Any application for a telecommunications tower shall include certification by a
qualified and licensed professional engineer that the design of the antenna
support tower conforms to the latest structural standards and wind loading
requirements of the Uniform Building Code and the Electronics Industry
Association, including, but not limited to, certification that the tower is
designed and will be constructed in such a manner that in the case of tower
failure, the tower will either fold upon itself or collapse upon itself. The
certification shall take into account the proposed users of, and possible
future co-locators on, the antenna structure;
   (D)   Commercial telecommunication service providers shall provide
documentation that the proposed telecommunication facilities comply, or will on
completion comply, with the latest applicable federal and state environmental,
health and safety standards and regulations, including, but not limited to,
those established by the Federal Communications Commission on Radio Frequency
Emissions (REF);
   (E)   In the case of a new tower, or when an existing tower structure is
being enlarged in size, a visual impact analysis shall be prepared and
certified by a qualified licensed professional engineer or architect, which
analysis shall include the following information:
      (1)   A site plan prepared by a registered land surveyor licensed in the
state;
      (2)   Identification of significant existing natural and human-made
features adjacent to the proposed tower location, indicating those features
that will buffer the proposed tower from adjacent property and rights-of-way;
      (3)   Identification of at least three specific points, which are
reasonably equidistant, within a three-mile radius of the proposed tower from
which the line of sight analysis is presented. The exact number and location of
these line of sight points shall be determined after consultation with staff
prior to the preparation and completion of the analysis. The applicant shall
then prepare a graphic illustration of the visual impact of the proposed tower.
The graphic illustration shall be a computer enhanced photograph with the
computer-generated image of the tower depicted to an accurate scale. Each
photograph shall be accompanied by text describing the point where the
photograph was taken and how many feet it is from the proposed tower;
      (4)   A description of the visual and aesthetic impact of the proposed
tower on all adjacent properties and properties within a 2,000-foot radius of
the tower. The applicant shall also provide a specific explanation of the
feasibility of camouflage given the needed height of the tower;
      (5)   A site plan showing all proposed landscaping and buffering. All
plans shall provide that the lowest six feet of the tower or facility be fenced
by a chain link fence and screened with an opaque buffer. Any building which is
not enclosed within the fenced area shall be landscaped, as required by §
152.026; and
      (6)   Any additional information requested by staff in order to fully
review and evaluate the impact.
   (F)   The findings of fact for any decision of the Board denying an
application for a telecommunications facility shall be supported by substantial
evidence; and
   (G)   Within 45 calendar days after the completion of any telecommunications
facility which is being used for the first time as a telecommunications
facility (including the attachment of an antenna to an existing structure), the
operator or owner shall provide a certificate from a registered professional
engineer to the effect that the structure meets all of the requirements set
forth in the approved plans.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.165  SETBACK, PLACEMENT, LIGHTING AND INSURANCE.
   All telecommunication facilities shall comply with the setback requirement
for structures in the zoning district in which it is located, plus any
additional distance set forth below.
   (A)   Antennas attached to existing structures shall have the same minimum
setback as the structure to which they are attached; provided that, any antenna
shall be placed so as to be as inconspicuous as possible as determined in
consultation with staff.
   (B)   The required setback for property in or within 1,000 feet of an
agricultural or residential district, other than a tower complying with
division (A) above, shall be calculated by adding the required setback for the
district in which the tower is located to the greater of:
      (1)   Five hundred feet; or
      (2)   The tower height.
   (C)   The required setback for a tower located in or within 1,000 feet of a
commercial district, other than a tower complying with division (A) above,
shall be calculated by adding the required setback for the district in which
the tower is located to the greater of:
      (1)   Two hundred feet; or
      (2)   The tower height.
   (D)   Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means unless the
lighting is required for the tower by the Federal Aviation Administration or
other federal or state authority.
   (E)   All owners/providers of telecommunications facilities shall annually
provide the Planning Department with evidence of adequate liability insurance
protecting against personal injury or property damage resulting from the
construction, failure or collapse of a tower, antenna or accessory equipment.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.166  INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC SAFETY TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   No new or existing telecommunications facility shall interfere with
public safety telecommunications. All applications for new service shall be
accompanied by an intermodulation study, prepared by a licensed professional
engineer with a specialization in telecommunications, which provides an
evaluation of existing and proposed transmission and indicates all potential
interference problems.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of any new service or any change in any
existing service, the provider shall give the Commission ten working days'
advance notice of the changes, so that the changes may be monitored to ensure
that there is no interference with public safety telecommunications. If the
interference occurs, it shall be the obligation of the provider to eliminate
the interference.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.167  LOCATING COMMUNICATION FACILITIES ON PUBLIC LAND.
   Antennas and towers may be located and maintained on property of the county,
a city or town, including the public right-of-way, under the following
provisions.
   (A)   If the site is to be an alternate tower structure using an already
existing structure, the applicant shall provide to the executive director a
written request setting forth the proposed site, height and evaluation of the
compatibility with the existing facility.
   (B)   If the site is a new facility to be constructed on public land, the
applicant shall provide to the executive director all of the above information,
but also provide an analysis of the proposal's compliance with the
comprehensive plan and the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   The executive director will review the plan within ten working days
after submission and schedule a meeting with the applicant to discuss the plan.
The applicant may then make such modifications or changes to the request as the
applicant deems necessary.
   (D)   The applicant shall then submit a request to the public body having
jurisdiction over the site or facility proposed to be used, for permission to
use the site.
   (E)   If the applicant executes a contract with the appropriate body, the
applicant shall then make an application for an improvement location permit or
a conditional use permit, as applicable. The applicant shall include a copy of
the executed contract as part of the application.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.168  REMOVAL.
   (A)   The owner of any telecommunications facility shall file annually with
the Planning Department a report certifying the continuing operation of every
facility located at any telecommunications facilities. Failure to so file shall
be deemed to mean that the facility is no longer in operation. Each operator of
a telecommunications facility shall send to the Planning Department a copy of
any notice sent to the FCC of intention to cease operations. Any abandoned or
unused facilities shall be removed (including the tower, support structure and
buildings) within 180 calendar days of ceasing to be used as a
telecommunications facility and the site shall be restored to its original
state at the expense of the owner of the property. Any owner of property leased
to a telecommunications provider may require the lessee to remove any tower and
associated facilities upon cessation of operation of the facility as a
telecommunications facility.
   (B)   If the site is an alternative tower structure and is used for purposes
other than telecommunication facilities, only the antenna and other equipment
related to the telecommunications use need to be removed, and the structure
shall be restored to its original state.
   (C)   If the tower and associated facilities are not removed within the
time, the tower and the associated facilities shall be deemed a nuisance under
applicable law. If not removed within the time, the Commission may seek
injunctive relief or any other remedy from a court of competent jurisdiction in
the county, or the Commission may authorize the tower and associated facilities
be removed by the county, city or town, and the costs billed to the owner. All
costs incurred by the county, city or town, upon the failure of the tower to be
promptly removed by the owner, including all costs of enforcement and
reasonable attorney fees, may be assessed by the county, city or town as a lien
against the property. A change of venue from the county shall not be granted in
such a case, as provided in I.C. 36-7-4-1014.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.169  EXISTING TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   Lawfully existing telecommunication facilities that do not conform with the
requirements of this subchapter shall be considered legal non-conforming uses
as provided in this chapter; however, placing additional antennas on a non-
conforming structure in accordance with this chapter shall not be considered an
expansion of the non-conforming use, nor shall it be considered to be an
increase in the degree of non-conformity.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.170  TEMPORARY TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   Temporary telecommunication facilities or antennas shall be permitted for
emergency communication, or in the event of equipment failure for a maximum
period of two weeks; provided that any owner/provider of the temporary facility
or antenna shall be in compliance with §
152.168.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
COAL AND OTHER MINERAL EXTRACTION
§ 152.185  GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR COAL EXTRACTION.
   (A)   Purpose. Regulations governing coal extraction activities within an
urban area as defined in I.C. 36-7-4-1103 are for the purposes of permitting
the economic recovery of the maximum amount of mineral resources while
protecting public health, safety and welfare from dangers and nuisances which
might be created by these activities.
   (B)   Submission requirements. The following information shall be submitted
to the Commission with the application for a development plan for coal
extraction operations:
      (1)   A copy of the approved permit from the State Department of Natural
Resources (IDNR) for a coal mining permit; and
      (2)   Supporting documentation for any of the following that are not
included in the IDNR permit documents noted in division (B)(1) above:
         (a)   A map of existing conditions showing the lands proposed to be
included in the territory planned for extraction of coal, sand, gravel or other
materials and the operational facility, if any, for the excavating, processing
and distribution of the minerals (hereinafter called "plant area") and the
lands within 1,000 feet in all directions. This map shall show the boundaries
of the entire site and of the extraction area and existing conditions,
including the following:
            1.   Existing contours, with a contour interval appropriate to the
site, which accurately reflects the topographic condition, usually ten feet;
            2.   Water bodies and drainage courses;
            3.   Depth of water table;
            4.   Estimate of depth and extent of deposit;
            5.   Current use of adjoining lands (residential, commercial,
industrial, institutional, recreation, agricultural and the like);
            6.   Current zoning classification of subject and adjoining lands
and setback requirements;
            7.   All publicly owned lands;
            8.   Public rights-of-way and the classifications of the roads
(arterial, collector, local); and
            9.   Easements and railroad lines.
         (b)   A copy of the operations map depicting the proposed plan of
operations.
         (c)   A plan for the rehabilitation and re-use of the entire plant
area subsequent to extraction showing the following:
            1.   Proposed plan for landscape rehabilitation including grading,
drainage, planting and similar appropriate installations;
            2.   Proposed water area (if any) resulting from excavation; and
            3.   Proposed plan of functional re-use of the total plant area
showing future locations of residential, commercial, industrial, public, semi-
public and other land uses, if any, and the principal elements of a future
traffic circulation system to serve the area. Sufficient information shall be
provided to enable the Commission to determine the general characteristics of
proposed development such as population density ranges, types of commercial or
industrial usage, and kinds of public areas.
         (d)   A written statement of operations describing the following:
            1.   Safety and security measures to be used in the plant area;
            2.   Hours of operation;
            3.   Anticipated noise levels from the operation, the time periods
and duration of the various noise levels, and any measures proposed to control
noise levels; and
            4.   Any proposed methods of controlling dust or other impacts from
the operation.
         (e)   Screening: Indicate on a plan drawing the methods and materials
that will be used to screen the mine from adjacent residential land uses when
required.
   (C)   Development plan approval.
      (1)   Notice shall be given to interested parties and the hearing
conducted in accordance with the Commission's rules of procedure.
      (2)   Approval shall not be final until an approved permit for the mine
has been issued in writing by the IDNR and copies of the permit have been
provided to the Commission.
      (3)   In the event that an approved permit has not been issued at the
time of application, the applicant shall provide the Commission a copy of the
permit application to the IDNR, along with any and all supporting documentation
included in the IDNR permit application. The Commission shall issue approval
contingent upon the receipt of the permit from the IDNR.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.186  STANDARDS FOR COAL EXTRACTION.
   (A)   The plant area shall be used primarily for the processing and handling
of coal, and the storage, distribution and sale thereof.
   (B)   The permitted uses are subject to the performance standards,
prescribed in §
152.024.
   (C)   The following site development requirements shall apply.
      (1)   Ingress, egress and traffic safety. Access roads to any plant area
shall be limited to one, or at most two points, and shall be constructed on a
level with the pavement of any public street or highway for a distance of not
less than 80 feet therefrom; and the 80 feet of road shall be improved with a
dust proof all weather surface. Adequate sight distance shall be maintained for
traffic safety in compliance with the standards and requirements of the local
highway authorities and other sections of this chapter.
      (2)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided for all
equipment and for cars of employees and visitors.
      (3)   Screens. Whenever possible, it is encouraged that screen planting
be installed between the mining use and adjoining residential uses. The screen
planting may consist of existing or new trees and shrubs, seed earthen mounds
or other suitable manmade screens. When requested by the residential occupants,
these screens shall be constructed to form dense screens to an appropriate
height to block the noise or view of objectionable features between residential
areas and any excavation units or heavy machinery operations within 300 feet of
a residence.
      (4)   Drainage. Upon the completion of operations, the land shall be left
in a safe condition so that sufficient drainage shall be provided so as to
prevent water pockets or undue erosion, with all grading and drainage so that
both natural storm water leaves the entire property at the original, natural
drainage points, and that the area drainage to any one such point is not
increased, as approved by the IDNR.
      (5)   Excavations. Excavations made to water producing depths, and
proposed as water areas in the plan of development should have a minimum depth
at the deepest point of not less than six feet, except in approved wetlands.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.187  MODIFICATIONS FOR COAL EXTRACTION.
   Because coal mining operations vary greatly in terms of their impact on
neighboring land uses, the Commission is hereby authorized to approve
modifications from the standards of this subchapter as the Commission deems
appropriate.
   (A)   An applicant for a development plan for coal extraction shall include
with the application an enumeration of any requested modifications and the
reasons for the modifications.
   (B)   The Commission may grant the modification only upon findings that the
modification is not injurious to the public health, safety and general welfare
and that the applicant has shown unusual circumstances relating to the proposed
coal extraction that justify the modification.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.188  GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR OTHER MINERAL EXTRACTION.
   (A)   Purpose. Regulations governing mineral extraction activities other
than coal within an urban area, as defined in I.C. 36-7-4-1103, are for the
purposes of permitting the economic recovery of the maximum amount of mineral
resources while protecting public health, safety and welfare from dangers and
nuisances which might be created by these activities. These sections do not
apply to coal extraction.
   (B)   Submission requirements. The following information shall be submitted
to the Commission with the application for a development plan for mineral
extraction operations, including borrow pits, topsoil removal and storage
areas:
      (1)   A map of existing conditions showing the lands proposed to be
included in the territory planned for extraction of sand, gravel or other
materials and the operational facility, if any, for the excavating, processing
and distribution of the minerals (hereinafter called "plant area") and the
lands within 1,000 feet in all directions. This map shall show the boundaries
of the entire site and of the extraction area and existing conditions,
including the following:
         (a)   Existing contours, with a contour interval appropriate to the
site, which accurately reflects the topographic condition, usually two feet;
         (b)   Water bodies and drainage courses;
         (c)   Depth of water table;
         (d)   Estimate of depth and extent of deposit;
         (e)   Current use of adjoining lands (residential, commercial,
industrial, institutional, recreation, agricultural and the like);
         (f)   Current zoning classification of subject and adjoining lands and
setback requirements;
         (g)   All publicly owned lands;
         (h)   Public rights-of-way and the classifications of the roads
(arterial, collector, local); and
         (i)   Easements and railroad lines.
      (2)   A plan of operational areas showing the following:
         (a)   Area proposed for excavation;
         (b)   Area proposed for settling ponds and wash water outlets;
         (c)   Area proposed for processing facilities and storage;
         (d)   Area proposed for production facilities (if any) for resource-
related industry; and
         (e)   Area proposed for plant entrance, office dispatcher
headquarters, off-street parking and equipment storage.
      (3)   A plan of excavation showing the following:
         (a)   Boundaries of each area proposed for excavation (hereinafter
called "excavation unit"), together with the proposed excavation schedule and
the estimated dates for the rehabilitation of each excavation unit;
         (b)   Methods to be used to minimize erosion on the entire tract;
         (c)   Methods of screening the area of operations from view; and
         (d)   The access or haul road system.
      (4)   A plan for the rehabilitation and re-use of the entire plant area
following extraction showing the following:
         (a)   Proposed plan for landscape rehabilitation including grading,
drainage, planting and similar appropriate installations;
         (b)   Proposed water area (if any) resulting from excavation; and
         (c)   Proposed plan of functional re-use of the total plant area
showing future locations of residential, commercial, industrial, public, semi-
public and other land uses, if any, and the principal elements of a future
traffic circulation system to serve the area. Sufficient information shall be
provided to enable the Commission to determine the general characteristics of
proposed development such as population density ranges, types of commercial or
industrial usage, and kinds of public areas.
      (5)   A written statement of operations describing the following:
         (a)   Safety and security measures to be used in the plant area;
         (b)   Hours of operation;
         (c)   Anticipated noise levels from the operation, the time periods
and duration of the various noise levels, and any measures proposed to control
noise levels; and
         (d)   Any proposed methods of controlling dust or other impacts from
the operation.
      (6)   A bond or other financial guarantee satisfactory to the Commission
in the amount of $500 per acre of area proposed to be excavated, which shall
run to the County Commissioners to ensure the satisfactory completion of the
landscape rehabilitation.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.189  STANDARDS FOR OTHER MINERAL EXTRACTION.
   (A)   The Commission may permit the following uses when it determines them
to be functionally beneficial to the extraction activity, appropriate to the
location and environs, and not detrimental to adjoining lands:
      (1)   Concrete batching plants;
      (2)   Mixing plants for either portland cement or asphalt;
      (3)   Concrete block, pipe, beam, slab or panel plants.
   (B)   The permitted uses are subject to the performance standards,
prescribed in §
152.024.
   (C)   The following site development requirements shall apply.
      (1)   Slopes. No production from an open pit shall be permitted which
creates a finished slope steeper than one foot horizontal to one foot vertical
for the excavation of products other than sand, except that in locations where
the soil or rock content is such that vertical cuts are proven to be safe, a
vertical cut up to eight feet in depth from ground level with a shelf no less
than 12 feet wide followed by a vertical cut thereafter of any depth shall be
allowed.
      (2)   Ingress, egress and traffic safety.
         (a)   Access roads to any plant area shall be limited to one, or at
most two points and shall be constructed on a level with the pavement of any
public street or highway for a distance of not less than 80 feet therefrom, and
the 80 feet of road shall be improved with a dust proof all weather surface.
         (b)   Adequate sight distance shall be maintained for traffic safety
in compliance with the standards and requirements of the local highway
authorities.
      (3)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided for all
equipment and for cars of employees and visitors.
      (4)   Screens. Screen planting consisting of a variety of trees, shrubs
or both in the same planting area, or a combination of seeded earth mounds and
plant material screens shall be constructed and planted so as to form dense
screens to a height appropriate to block the view of objectionable features and
maintain along the perimeter of any area being operated where the perimeter
abuts a public thoroughfare or a developed residential area, unless the
Commission determines that the natural setting eliminates the need for a
screen.
      (5)   Drainage. Upon the completion of operations, the land shall be left
in a safe condition so that sufficient drainage shall be provided so as to
prevent water pockets or undue erosion, with all grading and drainage so that
both natural storm water leaves the entire property at the original, natural
drainage points and that the area drainage to any one such point is not
increased.
      (6)   Excavations. Excavations made to water producing depths, and
proposed as water areas in the plan of development should have a minimum depth
at some point of not less than six feet measured from low water mark.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.190  MODIFICATIONS FOR OTHER MINERAL EXTRACTION.
   Because mining operations vary greatly in terms of their impact on
neighboring land uses, the Commission is hereby authorized to approve
modifications from the standards of §§
152.185 through
152.190 as the Commission deems appropriate.
   (A)   An applicant for a development plan for mineral extraction shall
include with the application an enumeration of any requested modifications and
the reasons for the modifications.
   (B)   The Commission may grant the modification only upon findings that the
modification is not injurious to the public health, safety and general welfare
and that the applicant has shown unusual circumstances relating to the proposed
mineral extraction that justify the modification.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
§ 152.205  GENERAL.
   (A)   Purpose. Regulations governing mineral extraction activities within an
urban area, as defined in I.C. 36-7-4-1103, are for the purposes of permitting
the economic recovery of the maximum amount of oil, gas and other hydrocarbon
substances resources while protecting public health, safety and welfare from
dangers and nuisances which might be created by these activities.
   (B)   Applicability. The regulations contained herein shall apply in all
districts where oil and gas production is allowed, either as a permitted use or
by conditional use permit.
   (C)   Activities permitted. The following are considered oil and gas
production activities: oil well drilling, including the installation and use of
the equipment, structures and facilities as are necessary or convenient for oil
drilling and producing operations customarily required or incidental to usual
oil field practice, including, but not limited to, the initial separation of
oil, gas and water and for the storage, handling, recycling and transportation
of the oil, gas and water to and from the premises, may be permitted, subject
to all regulations of this section.
   (D)   Standards. The standards listed below must be met before the Board may
grant a conditional use permit for oil and gas production activities. Any use
that does not comply with these standards may be permitted by the Board only
through the variance process of this chapter. Before deciding a conditional use
under this section, the Board shall seek information relevant to the decision
from agencies related to the oil and gas production operation. Any oil and gas
production activities that are regulated by federal or state law must meet all
regulations. The Board may impose conditions that are more restrictive than the
these regulations. When the Board approves a conditional use permit for oil and
gas production activities, it may require conditions or commitments to ensure
that the conditional use is consistent with the spirit and intent of this
chapter. The standards below apply to confinement feeding farms:
      (1)   Within 60 calendar days after abandonment of any well or any
earthen sumps used in drilling or production, or both, the earthen sump shall
be filled and the drilling site restored as nearly as practicable to its
original condition.
      (2)   Any earthen sump located within 500 feet of any public street or of
five or more occupied residences, shall be enclosed with a fence not less than
five, nor more than ten, feet in height mounted on steel posts with not less
than three strands of barbed wire around the top. The fence shall be
constructed of woven wire fencing or equivalent of not greater than six-inch
mesh.
      (3)   When private roads to wells or other oil field facilities are
constructed, the roads shall be oiled or surfaced in a manner that they will
not create a public nuisance.
      (4)   A permanent well hole, derrick or tank shall not be placed within
75 feet of any public road, street or highway.
      (5)   All drilling and producing operations shall conform to all
applicable fire and safety regulations.
      (6)   Suitable and adequate sanitary toilet and washing facilities shall
be installed and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.
      (7)   All drilling and production operations shall be conducted in a
manner as not to constitute a public nuisance.
      (8)   The operators of the drilling site shall maintain it in an orderly
fashion so that it does not become unsightly.
      (9)   Proven technological improvements generally accepted and used in
drilling and production methods shall be adopted as they may become available
if the improvements are capable of reducing factors of nuisance and annoyance
to surrounding properties.
      (10)   Adequate fire fighting apparatus and supplies shall be maintained
on the site at all times during any drilling or production operation.
      (11)   All parking and loading shall be provided on the drilling site and
in no case shall be permitted in any public right-of-way.
      (12)   No earthen sumps that will contaminate the surrounding or
subsurface area shall be used.
   (E)   Requirements. If the Board issues a conditional use permit for oil and
gas drilling activity, it shall require that the applicant comply with the
items below, and may impose any necessary conditions on the approval.
      (1)   The applicant shall agree in writing to conform with any and all
conditions which may be imposed by the Board prior to the start of drilling,
which conditions shall be imposed for the protection of the public health,
safety and general welfare.
      (2)   The applicant shall post a surety bond in the sum of $500 per well
or $2,500 for five or more wells, in favor of the county, to ensure conformance
with all conditions, restrictions and requirements herein contained.
      (3)   The operators of the drilling site(s) shall remove the drilling rig
and other equipment not used in producing operations from each well within 30
calendar days after the drilling of the well has been completed, and
thereafter, when necessary, the completed wells shall be serviced by portable
rig.
      (4)   Upon the granting of the permit, drilling shall begin within 90
calendar days. In the event that a producing well is not secured at the
conclusion of eight months, the permittee may, by written request to the Board,
be granted a hearing to extend the time limitation. Upon satisfactory evidence,
the Board may extend the time limit of the permit for an additional period not
to exceed one year.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 152.220  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that
may be hereafter adopted there exist lots, uses of land, structures, uses of
structures and land and characteristics of use which were lawful before this
chapter was approved or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or
restricted under the terms of this chapter or future amendment. It is the
intent of this chapter to permit the lawfully established non-conformities to
continue although the same does not conform to all of the provisions of this
chapter, but also recognize that a basic policy of zoning is their gradual
elimination. It is further the intent of this chapter that non-conformities
shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for
adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
   (B)   Non-conforming uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the districts involved. A non-conforming use of a
structure, a non-conforming use of land or a non-conforming use of structure
and land in combination, shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of
this chapter by attachment on a building or premises or additional non-
conforming signs, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be
prohibited generally in the district involved.
   (C)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
this chapter and upon which actual building construction has been carried on
diligently; provided that the building construction shall be diligently pursued
to completion within three years from the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter.
      (1)   Actual construction is hereby defined to include the erection of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner.
      (2)   Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing lawfully
established building has been begun preparatory to rebuilding, the excavation
or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction; provided
that work shall be carried on diligently.
   (D)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, a lawfully
established residential use rendered non-conforming by adoption of this chapter
or future amendment may be enlarged, altered or reconstructed; provided that:
      (1)   The residential use shall comply with §
152.221; and
      (2)   This provision shall not be construed to include more than one use
on a lot, and shall be applicable so long as the use remains otherwise lawful.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.221  NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district in which a principal use is permitted, a principal use
and customary accessory uses may be erected on any single lot of record at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter; provided that the lot
must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage with other lots in
the same ownership.
   (B)   The provision of division (A) above shall apply even though the lot
fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the district; provided that setback dimensions and requirements
other than those applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform
to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. Variance of
setback requirements shall be obtained only through action of the Board.
   (C)   No division of land shall be made after the effective date of this
chapter that creates a lot with width or area below the requirements stated in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.222  NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, setback lines,
intensity, its location on the lot or other requirements concerning the
structure, the structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a
manner that increases its non-conformity, but any structure or portion thereof
may be altered to decrease its non-conformity.
   (B)   Should the non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of a
structure be destroyed, by any means, to an extent in real value of more than
75% of its true value at the time of the destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed, except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Should the structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.223  NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES, LAND OR STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION.
   If lawful use involving individual structures, land, or of structures and
land in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of
this chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building that were arranged or designed for the use at the time of adoption or
amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land
outside the building.
   (C)   If no structural alterations are made, any non-conforming use of a
structure or structure and land in combination may be changed to another non-
conforming use; provided that the staff shall make specific findings that the
proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than
the existing non-conforming use. The staff or applicant may refer the
determination to the Board, which then may make the findings and deem the use
to be a conditional use to the terms of this chapter. In permitting the change,
the Board may require appropriate conditions.
   (D)   Any structure or structure and land in combination in or on which a
non-conforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations of the district, and the non-conforming use may not
thereafter be resumed.
   (E)   When a non-conforming use of a structure, land, or a structure and
land in combination is discontinued or abandoned for 12 consecutive months, or
governmental action impedes access to the premises, the structure, land or
structure and land in combination shall not thereafter be used except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (F)   Where non-conforming use status applies to a structure and land in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the non-
conforming status of the land. Destruction for the purpose of this section is
defined as damage to an extent in real value of more than 75% of its true
value.
   (G)   Any non-conforming use of a structure which has not been abandoned,
destroyed, expanded or damaged to the extent described above shall continue to
be legally non-conforming even though it fails to comply with the development
standards of this chapter, including parking, setbacks or other site
conditions. The occupancy of the non-conforming structure may be changed
without jeopardizing its legal non-conforming status; except that, if the new
use requires more parking or loading area than the previous use, the new use
shall comply with the requirements of §§
152.125 through
152.132, unless a variance from the development standards is granted by the
Board in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.224  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   On any non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
non-conforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs or on repair or
replacement of walls, fixtures, heating, wiring or plumbing; provided that the
cubic content existing when it became non-conforming shall not be increased.
   (B)   If a non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
non-conforming use become physically unsafe or unlawful due to the lack of
repairs and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized official to be
unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be
restored, repaired or rebuilt after six months of the declaration, except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any unsafe building.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.225  USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE (PROVISIONS NOT NON-CONFORMING USES).
   (A)   Any use that is permitted as a conditional use in a district under the
terms of this chapter (other than a change through Board action from a non-
conforming use to another use not generally permitted in the district) shall
not be deemed a non-conforming use in the district, but shall without further
action be considered a conforming use.
   (B)   Any use existing at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter
which is permitted as a conditional use in a district under the terms of this
chapter and is deemed a conforming use may without Board action be enlarged,
extended or increased subject to the standards of the zone district.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 152.240  ESTABLISHMENT AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The County Area Board of Zoning Appeals is a continuation of the
previous board of zoning appeals of the county established under Area Planning
Law and in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-900 et seq.
      (1)   The County Area Board of Zoning Appeals shall be a five-member
board appointed as follows:
         (a)   One citizen member appointed by the Area Planning Commission
from its members;
         (b)   One citizen member, who may not be a member of any plan
commission, appointed by the executive of the largest municipality in the
county participating in the Commission;
         (c)   Two citizen members, of whom one must be a member of the Area
Plan Commission and one must not be a member of any plan commission, appointed
by the county legislative body; and
         (d)   One citizen member, who may not be a member of any plan
commission, appointed by the executive of the second largest municipality in
the county participating in the Commission.
      (2)   None of the members of the County Area Board of Zoning Appeals may
hold other elective or appointive office in municipal, county or state
government, except as permitted by I.C. 36-7-4-902.
      (3)   The members of the County Area Board of Zoning Appeals shall serve
terms pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-906.
      (4)   The County Area Board of Zoning Appeals shall have jurisdiction
over all land subject to this chapter, concurrent with any division of the
County Board of Zoning Appeals; except for where exclusive jurisdiction has
been granted to a division of the County Area Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (5)   The staff of the County Area Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist
of the executive director of the Area Planning Commission and any other members
of the Area Planning Commission staff as assigned by the executive director.
   (B)   The Vincennes City Board of Zoning Appeals shall be a division of the
County Area Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-901(b).
      (1)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-902(g), the Vincennes City Board of
Zoning Appeals shall be a five-member board appointed as follows:
         (a)   Three citizen members appointed by the executive of the
municipality or county, of whom one must be a member of the Plan Commission and
two must not be a member of the Plan Commission;
         (b)   One citizen member appointed by the fiscal body of the
municipality who must not be a member of the Plan Commission; and
         (c)   One citizen member appointed by the Plan Commission from the
Plan Commission's membership, who must be a county agricultural agent or a
citizen member of the Plan Commission other than the member appointed under
division (B)(1)(a) above.
      (2)   All members must be residents of the City of Vincennes.
      (3)   None of the members of the Vincennes City Board of Zoning Appeals
may hold other elective or appointed offices in municipal, county or state
government, except as permitted by I.C. 36-7-4-902.
      (4)   The members of the Vincennes City Board of Zoning Appeals shall
serve terms pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-906.
      (5)   The Vincennes City Board of Zoning Appeals shall have exclusive
jurisdiction over all of the land subject to this chapter within the corporate
limits of the City of Vincennes.
      (6)   The staff of the Vincennes City Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consist of the Vincennes City Building Inspector and the staff of the Office of
the Vincennes City Building Inspector, or any other employees of Vincennes City
government as assigned by the Mayor of the City of Vincennes.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.241  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Board shall adopt Rules of Procedure concerning the filing of
appeals, applications for variances and conditional uses, giving of notice,
conduct of hearings and other matters as may be necessary to carry out their
duties under this chapter. At the first meeting of each year, the Board shall
elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among its members.
   (B)   Public notice of hearings before the Board in accordance with I.C. 5-
3-1-2 and I.C. 5-3-1-4 and notice to interested parties shall be given at least
ten working days before the date set for the hearing. The Board shall, by rule,
determine who are interested parties, how notice is to be given to them, and
who is required to give that notice. The party taking the appeal or applying
for the conditional use or variance shall be required to assume the cost of
public notice and due notice to interested parties in accordance with the
Board's rules of procedure.
   (C)   The staff may appear before the Board at the hearing and present
evidence relevant to the effect on the comprehensive plan or zoning ordinance
of the granting of a variance or the determination of any other matter.
   (D)   The Board shall make a decision on any matter that it is required to
hear at the public meeting at which the matter is first presented unless the
matter is continued to another meeting.
   (E)   An affirmative vote by a majority of the Board shall be required to
approve or deny a petition before the Board.
   (F)   Any petition approved by the Board, unless otherwise stipulated, shall
expire and become void one year after the date of its granting unless the
petitioner or his or her agent has put into effect the use on the property for
which the petition was approved.
   (G)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, prepare findings and record the
specifics of each vote on all actions taken. All minutes and records shall be
filed in the Area Plan Office and shall be a public record.
   (H)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the administrative official or body from whom the appeal
is taken certifies to the Board after the notice of appeal is filed that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would cause imminent peril to
life or property. In that case, proceedings or work shall not be stayed except
by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by the County
Circuit or Superior Court, and the notice shall be given to the administrative
official or body from whom the appeal is taken and the owner of the premises
affected and on due cause shown.
   (I)   After the person in charge of the work on the premises affected has
received notice that an appeal has been filed with the Board, the staff shall
have full power to order the work discontinued or stayed, and to call upon the
police power of the county, city or town to give full force and effect to the
order.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.242  CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The Board shall hear and decide only such conditional uses as the
Board is specifically authorized to act on by this chapter; to decide such
questions as are involved in determining whether conditional uses should be
granted and to grant conditional use permits with such conditions and
safeguards as are appropriate under this chapter, or to deny conditional use
permits when incompatible with the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (B)   A conditional use permit shall not be granted by the Board unless and
until the following occur.
      (1)   An application for conditional use permit is submitted indicating
the section of this chapter under which the conditional use is sought and
stating the grounds on which it is requested.
      (2)   Notice shall be given to interested parties and the hearing
conducted in accordance with the Board's rules of procedure.
      (3)   The Board shall make findings that it is empowered under the
section of this chapter described in the application to grant the conditional
use permit, and that the granting of the conditional use permit will
substantially serve the public convenience and welfare and will not
substantially or permanently injure the appropriate use of the neighboring
property.
   (C)   Before any conditional use permit shall be issued, the Board shall
make written findings certifying compliance with the specific regulations
governing individual conditional uses, and that satisfactory provision and
arrangement has been made concerning the following, where applicable:
      (1)   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures thereon with
particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow and control and access in case of fire or catastrophe;
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading areas, and to the economic, noise,
glare or odor effects of the conditional use on adjoining properties and
properties generally in the district;
      (3)   Refuse and service areas;
      (4)   Utilities, with reference to locations, availability and
compatibility;
      (5)   As regulated under §§
152.145 through
152.149, signs and proposed exterior lighting with reference to glare, traffic
safety, economic effect and compatibility and harmony with properties in the
district;
      (6)   Required setback distances, landscaping, buffering and other open
space;
      (7)   Minimal interference with the reasonable enjoyment of adjoining
properties, with reference to site development standards designed for their
mutual protection; and
      (8)   The environmental harmony of the district and general compatibility
with the neighborhood.
   (D)   When it grants a conditional use permit, the Board may include as
conditions of approval all development standards not otherwise specified in the
zoning district, including, but not limited to, setbacks, building height,
floor area ratios, building size and lot size.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.243  DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Second dwelling unit. The following standards must be met without
variance before the Board may grant a conditional use permit for a second
dwelling unit.
      (1)   The unit shall have an approved water supply and approved sewage
disposal system.
      (2)   Construction of the unit must be consistent with the intent and
purposes of the comprehensive plan and this chapter.
   (B)   Bed and breakfast use. The following standards must be met without
variance before the Board grants a conditional use permit for a bed and
breakfast facility.
      (1)   The residence shall be occupied as a residence by at least one of
the bed and breakfast staff, but not necessarily the property owner.
      (2)   The bed and breakfast use shall be confined to the principal
residential structure, and other existing structures that can be successfully
converted to bed and breakfast units.
      (3)   No exterior alterations to the structure shall be made which would
change the residential appearance of it.
      (4)   The minimum total floor area of the principal residential structure
needed to establish a bed and breakfast use shall be 1,500 square feet. Each
bed and breakfast unit in excess of one shall require an additional 500 square
feet of total floor area.
      (5)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for the residential
occupants. One additional off-street parking space shall be provided for each
bed and breakfast unit established; landscaping and/or buffering may be
required. Parking requirements may be reduced if the Board finds that reducing
off-street parking will not detract from the residential character of the
neighborhood, and other parking is available in the immediate area.
      (6)   Dining and other facilities shall not be open to the public but
shall be exclusively for the use of the residents and registered bed and
breakfast guests, unless the Board finds that opening the facilities to the
public will not have a negative impact on the surrounding area. The Board may
set any additional regulations necessary to ensure that public use of the
facilities will be in harmony with the surrounding area.
      (7)   There shall be no more than the equivalent of one non-resident
full-time employee hired solely for the purpose of working for the bed and
breakfast use. However, if the dining and/or other facilities are open to the
public, the Board may allow additional employees. In addition, the Board may
allow additional employees for other reasons that are peculiar to the property
(size, location) as long as the addition of more employees will not detract
from the residential character of the neighborhood.
      (8)   The applicant is responsible for obtaining all inspections,
permits, licenses and the like as may be required by law.
      (9)   The applicant is responsible for determining the effect, if any, of
the bed and breakfast use upon any subdivision restrictions, deed covenants and
the like that may encumber his or her property.
      (10)   The Board must determine that the bed and breakfast use will be
compatible with the neighborhood, and will not interfere with the reasonable
enjoyment of adjoining properties.
   (C)   Child or adult care home. The following standards must be met without
variance before the Board may grant a conditional use permit for the
establishment of a child or adult care home.
      (1)   At least one of the individuals providing the care shall be a
resident of the property.
      (2)   Each adult care home must be licensed by the appropriate state
agency.
      (3)   The minimum lot area shall be the minimum size required for the
zoning district in which the use is located, unless the lot is legally non-
conforming in size.
      (4)   There shall be at least 50 square feet of usable indoor space per
adult within the principal structure, exclusive of halls, bathrooms or kitchen
areas and basements without a direct exit to the outside.
      (5)   The Board must determine that the child or adult care home use will
be compatible with the neighborhood and will not interfere with the reasonable
enjoyment of adjoining properties.
      (6)   The child or adult care home may not be operated in such a way as
to become a nuisance to the surrounding neighborhood.
      (7)   If, at any time, a child or adult care home provider is found to be
operating in violation of the above standards, or any other particular
conditions of approval, the staff shall notify the provider that his, her or
their conditional use is no longer valid. If the provider wishes to continue
operating a child or adult care home, a new conditional use permit must be
obtained from the Board.
   (D)   Group home. The following standards must be met without variance
before the Board may grant a conditional use permit for the establishment of a
group home.
      (1)   Each group home must be licensed by the appropriate state agency.
      (2)   The minimum lot area shall be the minimum size required for the
zoning district in which the use is located, unless the lot is legally non-
conforming in size.
      (3)   There shall be at least 50 square feet of usable indoor space per
adult within the principal structure, exclusive of halls, bathrooms or kitchen
areas and basements without a direct exit to the outside.
      (4)   The Board must determine that the group home use will be compatible
with the neighborhood and will not interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of
adjoining properties.
      (5)   The group home may not be operated in such a way as to become a
nuisance to the surrounding neighborhood.
   (E)   Tourist home. The following standards must be met without variance
before the Board grants a conditional use permit for a tourist home.
      (1)   The residence shall be occupied as a residence by at least one of
the tourist home staff, but not necessarily the property owner.
      (2)   The bed and breakfast use shall be confined to the principal
residential structure, and other existing structures that can be successfully
converted to bed and breakfast units.
      (3)   No exterior alterations to the structure shall be made which would
change the residential appearance of it.
      (4)   The minimum total floor area of the principal residential structure
needed to establish a tourist home shall be 1,500 square feet. Each sleeping
unit in excess of one shall require an additional 500 square feet of total
floor area.
      (5)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for the residential
occupants. One additional off-street parking space shall be provided for each
tourist home unit established; landscaping and/or buffering may be required.
Parking requirements may be reduced if the Board finds that reducing off-street
parking will not detract from the residential character of the neighborhood and
other parking is available in the immediate area.
      (6)   There shall be no more than the equivalent of one non-resident
full-time employee hired solely for the purpose of working for the tourist home
use.
      (7)   The applicant is responsible for obtaining all inspections,
permits, licenses and the like as may be required by law.
      (8)   The applicant is responsible for determining the effect, if any, of
the tourist home use upon any subdivision restrictions, deed covenants and the
like that may encumber his or her property.
      (9)   The Board must determine that the tourist home will be compatible
with the neighborhood and will not interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of
adjoining properties.
   (F)   Confinement feeding farms. The standards listed below must be met
before the Board may grant a conditional use permit for confinement feeding
farms. Any such use that does not comply with these standards may be permitted
by the Board only through the variance process of this chapter. Before deciding
a conditional use under this section, the Board shall seek information relevant
to the decision from agencies related to the agricultural operation. Any
confinement feeding farm that is regulated by state law must meet all state
regulations. The Board may impose conditions that are more restrictive than the
state regulations. When the Board approves a conditional use permit for a
confinement feeding farm, it may require conditions or commitments to ensure
that the conditional use is consistent with the spirit and intent of this
chapter. The following standards apply to confinement feeding farms.
      (1)   All operations shall be located at least 50 feet from any property
line and at least 500 feet from any neighboring residence, commercial or
industrial building, or any other building that is used as a place of
employment or is frequented by the public, unless the Board finds that a lesser
setback is sufficient for the operation.
      (2)   Waste material handling (liquid and solid), storage and spreading
must be carried out in a manner that is in accordance with sound management
practices.
      (3)   Adequate fencing and/or landscaping of the operation must be
provided.
      (4)   The Board must determine that the establishment of a confined
feeding operation is compatible with the general area and does not unreasonably
interfere with the enjoyment of other properties in the area. In making this
determination, the Board shall consider the character of the general area,
historical land uses and development patterns, and the trend of development in
the area.
   (G)   Cemeteries, columbaria and mausoleums. The following standards must be
met without variance before the Board grants a conditional use permit for a
cemetery, columbaria or mausoleum.
      (1)   The minimum required lot size shall be five acres.
      (2)   The minimum setback measured between structures or burial plots and
any property boundary and shall be 25 feet.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.244  VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board shall hear and authorize upon appeal in specific cases a
variance from the development standards (such as building height, setback lines
or lot area and the like) in accordance with the criteria established in
division (B) below. Use variances are not permitted.
   (B)   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the
Board unless and until:
      (1)   An application for variance is submitted indicating the specific
type of development standard and noting the specific terms of this chapter from
which the variance is sought, and demonstrating:
         (a)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety
and general welfare of the community;
         (b)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
         (c)   The strict application of the terms of the zoning ordinance will
result in practical difficulties in the use of the property; and
         (d)   The variance granted is the minimum necessary and does not
correct a hardship caused by an owner, previous or present, of the property.
      (2)   All conditions and commitments as deemed necessary in the public
interest may be required by the Board.
   (C)   Notice shall be given to interested parties and the hearing conducted
in accordance with the Board's rules of procedure.
   (D)   The Board shall make written findings of fact that all of the
requirements of division (B)(1) above have been met by the applicant for a
variance.
   (E)   The Board shall make written findings of fact that the granting of the
variance will be in harmony with the general spirit, purpose and intent of this
chapter, and in the interest of determining substantial justice done.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.245  APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND STAFF DECISIONS.
   (A)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is
error in any of the requirements, decision or determination made by the staff.
   (B)   An appeal concerning interpretation or administration of this chapter
may be taken by any person aggrieved by any decision of the staff.
   (C)   An appeal shall specify the ground thereof and shall be filed within
30 calendar days of the decision alleged to be in error. The staff shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all documents, plans and papers constituting
the record of the action from which the appeal is taken.
   (D)   In exercising the powers it has, the Board may, so long as such action
is in conformity with this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify the order, requirements, decision or determination appealed from and may
make the order, requirements, decision or determination as in its opinion ought
to be made, and to that end shall have the powers of the administrative
official or body from whom the appeal is taken.
   (E)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
administrative official or body, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under this chapter.
   (F)   Whenever the decision of the Board is conditioned upon the
petitioner’s compliance with a requirement imposed by the Board concerning
construction or site development and the condition is recited in the notice to
the petitioner of the Board’s decision, petitioner shall be required to notify
the staff in writing of the timely fulfillment of the requirement. If the time
for fulfillment of the condition is stated in the Board’s decision, the written
notification must be
received within 90 calendar days after the commencement of the use or
completion of construction authorized by the Board’s decision, whichever is
earlier. Failure to comply with any conditions imposed by the Board shall
constitute a violation enforceable by governmental authority pursuant to the
provisions of §§
152.007 and
152.999.
   (G)   If deemed advisable, the Board may require or permit the petitioner to
make written commitments concerning the use or development of the subject
property. The commitments shall be reduced to writing in recordable form and
signed by the owner(s) of the real estate. The commitments shall authorize
their recording by the staff in the office of the Recorder of the county, upon
the grant of the variance or conditional use permit petition by the Board.
After the recording of the commitments, the staff shall return the original
recorded commitments to petitioner and shall retain a copy of the recorded
commitments in its file. The Board may require in such commitment the
designation of any specially affected persons or categories of specially
affected persons, who (in addition to persons entitled to receive notice of the
hearing under §
152.240) shall be entitled to enforcement thereof. The commitments may be
modified or terminated by a decision of the Board made at public hearing after
proper notice has been given. Any modification or termination of the
commitments approved by the Board shall not be in full force and effect until
reduced to writing by the present owner(s) of the real estate, endorsed by the
Board, and recorded in the office of the Recorder of the county.
   (H)   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Board may seek court
review by certiorari procedure. A petition for certiorari shall specify the
grounds upon which the petition alleges the illegality of the Board’s action
and must be filed in a court of competent jurisdiction in the county within 30
calendar days after the date of the decision.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1014, or as amended thereafter,
the Commission or any enforcement official designated in the chapter, may bring
an action in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county to invoke any legal,
equitable or special remedy for the enforcement of this chapter. If the
Commission or designated enforcement official is successful in the act, the
violator shall bear the cost of the action. A change of venue from the county
may not be granted in such an action.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1015, or as amended thereafter, the
Board or any enforcement official designated in the chapter, may bring an
action for injunction in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county to
restrain a person from violating this chapter or for a mandatory injunction
directing a person to remove a structure erected in violation of this chapter.
If the Board or any designated enforcement official is successful in its
action, the violator shall bear the cost of the action. A change of venue from
the county may not be granted in such an action.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements, including but not necessarily limited to, violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with this chapter, shall be
fined a sum of at least $500, but not more than $2,500 for the first violation
of the chapter, and not more than $7,500 for a second or subsequent violation
of this chapter.
      (2)   Each calendar day a violation remains uncorrected it is a distinct
and separate ordinance violation subject to an additional citation and fine in
the amount prescribed.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 2012-9, passed 7-2-2012)
CHAPTER 153:  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Executive summary
   
153.02   Introduction
   
153.03   Development considerations
   
153.04   Goals and objectives
   
153.05   Land use plan
   
153.06   Transportation plan
   
153.07   Capital improvements plan
   
153.08   Implementation plan and report summary
§ 153.01  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.
   (A)   Report overview. The results of the county comprehensive plan are
presented in eight sections of this report. The contents of each section of the
report are generally as follows:
      (1)   Section One - Executive Summary: This section provides a general
overview of the entire report;
      (2)   Section Two - Introduction: This section provides an introduction
to the county and the purpose of the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   Section Three - Development Considerations: This section describes
all the considerations that were taken into account during this project;
      (4)   Section Four - Goals and Objectives: This section of the report
represents the community's goals and objectives during the planning period;
      (5)   Section Five - Land Use Plan: This section depicts and describes
the proposed land use plan for the county;
      (6)   Section Six - Transportation Plan: The purpose of this section is
to present the proposed street classification map and describe its purpose;
      (7)   Section Seven - Capital Improvements Plan: This section of the
report serves as an overview of the capital improvements anticipated to be
needed to implement this plans goals and objectives; and
      (8)   Section Eight - Implementation Plan: This section provides an
overview of the process to implement the goals, objectives and policies
included in this report.
   (B)   Report summary.
      (1)   Introduction. This comprehensive plan is intended as an instrument
of public policy, reflecting the goals and objectives for the development of
the county. It is an official document adopted by local government as a policy
guide to future decisions about the development of its jurisdiction. This
comprehensive plan is a composite of four separate plans: land use,
transportation, capital improvements and implementation.
      (2)   Development considerations. The development considerations for the
county briefly highlight some of the important demographics and statistics
looking both toward the future and from the past. This section gives an in-
depth look at the different land use, soils, floodplain, transportation and
infrastructure considerations in the county. It also discusses county
considerations by breaking them up into four distinct categories: residential,
commercial, industrial and agricultural.
      (3)   Goals and objectives. The Area Plan Commission established goals
and objectives by reviewing several lists and land use plans from workshops
that were held throughout the county. From these goals and objectives the Area
Plan Commission created a final land use plan that is presented in this
comprehensive plan. The goals and objectives were then divided into distinct
categories: commercial, industrial, residential, agricultural and general.
      (4)   Land use plan.
         (a)   Suburban development surrounds the City of Vincennes and extends
well into the prime agricultural areas of the county. Many of the rural
development subdivisions are scattered with pockets of undeveloped land. These
scattered subdivisions are particularly vulnerable to the intrusion of mixed
land use areas.
         (b)   Future development in the county will be affected by the rate of
economic growth in the region and the effectiveness of policies and programs in
the county to maintain its neighborhoods. As the county has been taking an
aggressive leadership role in economic development, numerous land use changes
are taking place. While some are concerned about effects of land use changes,
there are others who oppose any land use controls.
         (c)   Most of the future development that is expected to occur will do
so in and around the City of Vincennes. However, there is expected to be some
residential growth occurring around Monroe City, Oaktown, Freelandville,
Edwardsport, Sandborn, Bruceville and Westphalia. Industrial and commercial
expansion is expected to occur in the outlying areas of Vincennes, Bicknell and
Sandborn. Residential or commercial development is expected to occur on S.R. 61
and Hart Street Road outside of Vincennes.
      (5)   Transportation plan. Transportation facilities and services have
been instrumental in the historical development of the county and continue to
play an important role in the local economy. The highway systems are generally
adequate in transportation of goods and people, though improvements are needed
in county and local roads.
      (6)   Capital improvements plan. This section summarizes all the
improvements to local and county infrastructure to accommodate future and
current expansion. These improvements are broken into two categories:
residential and transportation. Most of these improvements are drainage, sewer
and recreation related.
      (7)   Implementation plan. This section has reviewed the measures
available to the units of local government in implementing and regulating the
Comprehensive Plan, after adoption. Regulatory measures, though less desirable,
are also necessary in providing for orderly growth. This section also discusses
the Area Plan Commission's role in regulating as well as the importance of
periodically reviewing and updating the comprehensive plan and ordinances.
(Res. 2004-8, passed - -2004; Res. 5-2008, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 153.02  INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Description.
      (1)   The comprehensive plan is intended as an instrument of public
policy, reflecting the goals and objectives for the development of the county
in the future. The comprehensive plan can be carried out by the administration
and installation of public facility improvements by local government, the
cooperative efforts of the developers of the land, and active support of the
general public.
      (2)   In the future, as planning problems arise requiring evaluations by
the Area Plan Commission, the comprehensive plan and its policies will be used
as criteria for the basis of decisions.
      (3)   The comprehensive plan for the county is a composite of four
separate elements as follows.
         (a)   Land use plan. This is a plan for the future use of land and the
structures built on the land. The land use districts are shown as residential,
commercial, industrial and agricultural.
         (b)   Transportation plan. This plan is based on existing
transportation facilities and a determination of future transportation needs. A
street and highway plan is presented, based on existing and future traffic
considerations.
         (c)   Capital improvements plan. The primary purpose of this plan is
to identify current and future county infrastructure needs, and to plan the
implementation of solutions to overcome those needs.
         (d)   Implementation plan. The goal of this plan is to provide
government, the public and its representatives with a clear cut, step-by-step
process to achieve the goals and objectives laid out in the plan.
   (B)   General. The comprehensive plan is a graphic illustration of the
general development patterns of the county as it is expected to appear in 2020
if the planning objectives are met. The basic concept of the comprehensive plan
is that land uses, identified as residential, commercial, industrial, and
agricultural, will be directed to areas designed to accommodate this
development. A review of the area required to meet both the population needs,
and the community goals and objectives, resulted in the determination of each
type of land use.
   (C)   Background.
      (1)   Master plan.
         (a)   In 1961 a master plan for the City of Vincennes was developed. A
jurisdictional area of two miles beyond the corporate limits was included as
part of that plan. A decade later, in November 1971, a master plan was adopted
for the county. All of the area within the county was included, except the
incorporated area of Vincennes. In effect, the 1971 county plan updated the
planning proposals for the area immediately surrounding the city.
         (b)   The Area Plan Commission of the county was formed in January of
1972. One of the first official acts of this new committee was to adopt the
Master Plans for the county and the City of Vincennes. No further updates to
these plans have occurred since they were updated and approved in 1972.
      (2)   Communities. The county is located on the southwestern border of
Indiana. The county is one of the larger counties in Indiana in terms of area,
but is in the bottom half in terms of population. The communities that make up
the county and that are included in this comprehensive plan are: Vincennes,
Bicknell, Oaktown, Sandborn, Wheatland, Monroe City, Decker, Ragsdale,
Bruceville, Edwardsport, Freelandville, Westphalia, and Emison. Of these,
Vincennes and Bicknell are incorporated cities. Sandborn, Oaktown, Wheatland,
Monroe City, Decker, Bruceville, and Edwardsport are incorporated towns and the
remaining are unincorporated communities.
   (D)   Authorization/financing.
      (1)   This comprehensive plan was funded by a Lilly Endowment Gift. The
County Area Plan Commission and the County Commissioners authorized this
project in June of 2000. Hannum, Wagle and Cline Engineering was the consulting
firm on the project study and also wrote the first versions of this
comprehensive plan along with the accompanying Zoning and Subdivision Control
Ordinances.
      (2)   Considerable public input was received during initial public
hearings in August and September of 2001. As a result, the Area Plan Commission
thoroughly reviewed the plan and ordinances, and made significant changes to
each without the involvement of the consulting firm.
   (E)   Report organization.
      (1)   This comprehensive plan report is a general overview of the county.
A narrative executive summary is included for those citizens who want a brief
statement of the entire plan. The report, as stated previously, is broken into
four main plans. They are the land use, capital improvements, transportation
and implementation plans.
      (2)   (a)   When adopted, this plan will become an official guide to
local officials for long range development goals.
         (b)   This report contains a summary of observations and general
recommendations regarding future growth.
         (c)   The effectiveness of this comprehensive plan will ultimately
rely on how its recommendations are implemented and enforced through zoning
ordinances and subdivision control ordinances.
(Res. 2004-8, passed - -2004; Res. 5-2008, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 153.03  DEVELOPMENT CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   (a)   The economy and demographics of an area are of obvious
importance in any long range planning process.
         (b)   Growth and change in the private sector generates expanding and
changing demands for various public services, and the economic well-being of
any area is a direct link to productive planning processes.
      (2)   (a)   The county primarily has been a mining and agricultural trade
center for western and southern Indiana.
         (b)   The county has entered a stage of maturity as a manufacturing
and agricultural trade center.
         (c)   Agriculture is still a dominant sector for the county, but on
all accounts, the other sectors have increased in revenue.
   (B)   Demographic considerations.
      (1)   The county's population has been relatively steady since 1960,
showing a moderate decrease in population through 2000.
         (a)   Population projections show that the county's population will
likely increase over the next 40 years, making the 2040 population similar to
the 1960 population.
         (b)   Historical and future population trends for the county are shown
below.
Population Changes
Population Changes
1960 41,561
1970 41,546
1980 41,838
1990 39,884
2000 39,256
2010 39,399
2020 39,959
2030 40,571
2040 40,995
 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2000; STATS Indiana, (http://
www.stats.indiana.edu/).
      (2)   Vincennes' population decreased to a total of 18,701 in 2000, but
is expected to increase to a total of 20,841 by 2020. Similarly, very mild
growth rates are anticipated in the other incorporated cities and towns during
the planning period. The historical population data and future projections for
these cities and towns are depicted herein.
Population Changes, Cities and Towns
City/Town 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020
Population Changes, Cities and Towns
City/Town   1970   1980   1990   2000   2010   2020
Bicknell    3,717  4,713  3,357  3,378  3,475  3,523
Bruceville  627    646    471    469    n/a    n/a
Decker      268    256    281    283    291    295
Edwardsport 482    459    380    363    393    399
Monroe City 603    569    538    548    n/a    n/a
Oaktown     726    776    655    633    678    687
Sandborn    528    576    455    451    471    478
Vincennes   19,867 20,857 19,859 18,701 20,556 20,841
Wheatland   562    532    439    504    454    461
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2000; STATS Indiana, (http://
www.stats.indiana.edu/);
The 1990 Income Measures for RDA, pages 10-15.
 
   (C)   Economic considerations.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   The economic base of the county is a key factor in establishing
stable employment patterns for the future. Economic stability is important to
citizens and government officials as industry not only provides jobs for the
community, but also pays a fair portion in property and personal property
taxes.
         (b)   Community leaders of the county have banded together to create a
positive attitude toward economic development. The establishment of a new
industrial park on U.S. 41, south of Vincennes, is a prime example of how the
community leaders are working together in order to better the county.
      (2)   Tax increment finance districts.
         (a)   The City of Vincennes designated the Hart Street corridor as an
economic development area and adopted their first Tax Increment Finance (TIF)
district in March of 1996. This TIF district was later expanded into adjacent
areas in January of 2000. The Vincennes Redevelopment Commission is responsible
for managing the district funds and administering the economic development plan
for the area.
         (b)   The development plan describes the goals, objectives and capital
improvement projects that will achieve desired infrastructure improvements in
the TIF district. Further details and information regarding the Hart Street
Economic Development Area and associated Tax Increment Finance District can be
obtained by contacting the Vincennes Redevelopment Commission through the
Vincennes City Hall.
      (3)   Economic development income tax.
         (a)   The Economic Development Income Tax (EDIT) Ordinance was passed
by the County Council in 1997 at a rate of 1/4% of gross income of every county
taxpayer. This tax was increased in 2003 to a total rate of 1/2% to provide
funding for the construction of a new jail and law enforcement center for the
county.
         (b)   Most government units in the county have designated projects
related to existing infrastructure items such as public buildings, drainage,
wastewater, streets or traffic control as viable targets for EDIT spending. The
county and the Cities of Vincennes and Bicknell have each dedicated a
significant portion of their EDIT dollars towards constructing new
infrastructure items and developing new industrial or commercial sites
      (4)   County Development Corporation.
         (a)   The County Development Corporation (KCDC), previously known as
the Vincennes Area Community Development Corporation, was established in 1981
under a board of directors composed of local business leaders and government
officials.
         (b)   The primary goal of KCDC's economic development programs is to
influence corporate site selection decisions. KCDC is currently implementing
plans on several sites zoned for industrial or commercial use with the
intentions of making these sites "construction ready" with utilities, services
and access roads in place and environmental studies completed.
         (c)   KCDC is also involved with efforts in identifying, training and
educating citizens to develop and quantify a workforce that helps make locating
in the county a solid business decision. Also, recognizing that existing
businesses are the backbone of the economy in the county, KCDC continues to
work with existing industries to identify their needs and seek solutions.
      (5)   Vincennes urban enterprise zone.
         (a)   The Vincennes Urban Enterprise Zone became effective in January
of 2002. The broad purpose of the enterprise zone is to stimulate local
community and business re-development in specifically defined distressed urban
areas within the City of Vincennes.
         (b)   Various tax and financial incentives are available in the
enterprise zone to impact the cash flow position of a business within the zone
and improve their access to capital.
         (c)   Further details and information regarding the enterprise zone
program can be obtained by contacting the Vincennes Urban Enterprise
Association through the Vincennes City Mayor's Office.
      (6)   Employment.
         (a)   1.   Citizens of the county work at a variety of occupations.
            2.   The two major types of private industry employment are retail
sales and services.
            3.   Some statistics for private industry employment in the county
are illustrated in the following table.
            4.   The major private employers are presented in the following
table.
         (b)   1.   One employment consideration to the county is that many of
the community's primary employers fall under a "not-for-profit" status. This
includes Good Samaritan Hospital, Vincennes University, KCARC and Vincennes
School Corporation.
            2.   These four employers alone account for nearly 20% of the
county's workforce.
            3.   Because of their not-for-profit status, the tax revenue
generated by these employers is limited.
         (c)   Another key consideration is that the county currently has a
3.5% unemployment rate, this just below the state average of 3.6%. Therefore
the county appears to be employing people at an average rate.
Private Industry Employers
Private Industry Employment        Earnings ($)      Average Earnings Per Job
                                                     ($)
                 1995 % Chg. 90-95 1995 % Chg. 90-95 1995 % Chg. 90-95
Private Industry Employers
Private Industry Employment         Earnings ($)        Average Earnings Per
                                                        Job ($)
                 1995  % Chg. 90-95 1995   % Chg. 90-95 1995   % Chg. 90-95
Ag. Services     278   50.3%        3,025  47.4%        10,881 -1.9%
Mining           451   96.9%        17,845 250.8%       38,568 78.1%
Construction     835   4.2%         19,547 14.6%        23,410 9.9%
Manufacturing    2,319 45.7%        66,601 35.9%        28,720 -6.7%
Transportation   1,258 15.6%        38,322 -4.7%        30,463 -17.6%
Wholesale Trade  1,082 1.3%         30,446 9.5%         28,139 8.1%
Retail Trade     4,552 14.6%        52,728 16.3%        11,583 1.5%
Finance, Real    1,235 4.7%         25,588 18.9%        20,719 13.7%
Estate
Services         5,034 9.2%         99,213 25.6%        19,709 15.0%
Note: The Services category generally includes restaurant and other public
services. Source: The Indiana Fact Book 1998-1999, pages 3.12-3.13.
 
Knox County Major Private Employers
Employer Number of Employees
Knox County Major Private Employers
Employer                Number of Employees
Good Samaritan Hospital 1,680
Vincennes University    983
KCARC                   500
Hamilton Glass/Gemtron  470
Vincennes School Corp.  470
Wal-Mart                405
Essex Wire Company      284
Source: Indiana Workforce Development Fact Sheet, page 1.
 
   (D)   General considerations.
      (1)   Existing land use. Existing land uses obviously play a major role
in future development. A map of the existing land use plan is depicted herein.
Much of the existing commercial, residential and industrial development is
currently occurring in and around the cities of Vincennes and Bicknell.
      (2)   Soils.
         (a)   Soils are considered by many to be the most important natural
resource of the county. Soil conditions also play an important role in
determining the suitability of land for building locations, septic tanks, and
recreational activities. The soil map for the county is presented herein.
         (b)   The unsuitability of some soils is best exemplified in recently
developed residential subdivisions that utilize septic fields. In many areas,
soils are impermeable limiting the effectiveness of the septic fields.
Furthermore, the topography in many areas does not contain sufficient level
ground surface for an adequately sized septic system.
      (3)   Floodplain. In considering the planning for the county, particular
attention was given to those areas that are subject to flooding. The floodplain
map shows the flood plain areas adjacent to the Wabash River and throughout the
county. The county is bounded by the Wabash and White Rivers, resulting in
approximately 30% of the county being in the floodplain. Land use within the
floodplains should be restricted to agricultural and recreational pursuits.
Therefore, commercial, industrial and residential development in floodplain
areas is more highly regulated.
      (4)   Drainage.
         (a)   The county is drained entirely by the Wabash River and White
Rivers. Development in the county has been accompanied by an increase in
impermeable surfaces (i.e., rooftops and pavement). This increase in
impermeable surfaces has resulted in an increase in storm water runoff.
         (b)   In all but a few recent cases, storm water facilities
constructed during residential and commercial developments have been limited to
storm water conveyance systems such as ditches and storm sewer piping. Only a
few developments have included basins to limit the rate of runoff to what
existing downstream storm water facilities could accommodate. This has resulted
in many tributary streams, ditches and piping systems to be overloaded,
ultimately resulting in localized and regional flooding during storm events.
         (c)   Part of the problem has been the lack of a controlling drainage
ordinance for the county. To overcome this deficiency, the County Drainage Task
Force, was organized to develop and recommend a storm water drainage ordinance
for the county. The Task Force also developed recommendations for policies and
procedures to implement maintenance programs for drainage systems throughout
the county. The final report of the County Drainage Task Force was presented in
February 2001. Copies can be obtained from the County Surveyor's Office.
      (5)   Transportation.
         (a)   The transportation facilities of a planning area are a necessary
entity of land use planning since they provide for the easy circulation of
people and goods between and within the various land use activities of the
area. Various modes of transportation make up the whole system. Rail, air and
highway facilities each play an integral part in providing for this
circulation.
            1.   Railroads. Currently, three railroads serve the county.
Freight service throughout the county is provided by CSX Railroad. City of
Vincennes officials are currently working with railroad management to minimize
the effects of rail traffic on street traffic without adversely affecting
freight service within the city.
            2.   Airport. The Lawrenceville-Vincennes Municipal Airport, a
5,200-foot paved runway facility located three miles northeast of the City of
Lawrenceville, Illinois, and the Vincennes University Airport both serve the
county. Airfreight and charter services are available as well.
            3.   Highways.
               a.   A key factor in future transportation planning is the
ongoing Interstate 69 effort. Interstate 69 is a proposed interstate highway
that would connect Evansville to Indianapolis. This route will be routed near
Washington at its closest point to the county. Detailed environmental studies,
route planning, land acquisition and design of the interstate could take years.
Therefore, it is recommended that the community continue to monitor the status
of Interstate 69 development and evaluate its impacts on land use and
transportation routes under this comprehensive plan.
               b.   The county is currently served by the following major state
and federal highways which carry a high proportion of interregional traffic:
            4.   U.S. highways. The major U.S. highways in the county are U.S.
41, U.S. 50 and U.S. 150. U.S. 41 generally handles traffic from Evansville to
Chicago, while U.S. 50 runs from the Cincinnati area through St. Louis. U.S.
150, from the Louisville area, turns northward at Vincennes, and is a joint
route with U.S. 41 to Terre Haute, where it then bears westward into Illinois.
In the county U.S. 41 runs north and south from Oaktown to Decker. U.S. 150 and
50 runs easterly from Vincennes, passes near Wheatland, and into Daviess
County.
            5.   State highways. State Route (S.R.) 67 from Indianapolis
terminates at its interchange with U.S. 41 north of Vincennes. S.R. 61, from
Jasper, enters Vincennes from the east and S.R. 441 brings traffic into
Vincennes from the U.S. 41 by-pass north along Willow Street to Sixth Street.
S.R. 241 serves as a connector for Wheatland and Decker. S.R. 550, from Emison,
enters Bruceville from the west then runs southeast to terminate at Wheatland.
S.R. 58 runs from Merom to Freelandville, where it turns east and ends at
Elnora. S.R. 159 merely serves as a connector for Freelandville and Bicknell.
         (b)   In the county there are four classes of streets, they are:
            1.   Principal arterials. These have high traffic volumes, and
connect major population centers and traffic generators. Access is highly
limited or controlled.
            2.   Minor arterials. These feed and distribute moderately high
volume traffic to principal arterials. They may provide controlled access to
abutting properties.
            3.   Collectors. These primarily collect traffic from local streets
and feed traffic to the arterial street network.
            4.   Local. Streets used primarily for access to abutting
properties, usually residential.
         (c)   As discussed in the transportation plan hereunder, the following
is the classification for major streets and highways in the county:
 
Principal Arterials    Minor Arterials
U.S. 41-50-150 By-pass S.R. 58 S.R. 159
U.S. 41                S.R. 59 S.R. 241
U.S. 50-150            S.R. 61 S.R. 441
                       S.R. 67 S.R. 550
 
         (d)   All other streets and roads are classified by the use of the
communities they serve. The proposed street classifications for all streets and
roads in the county are presented herein.
      (6)   Infrastructure.
         (a)   The county, like many other similar counties throughout the
state, has an aging infrastructure system. This system consists of highways,
local streets, public water systems, public wastewater systems, storm water
drainage facilities, bridges, natural gas utilities, rail systems, electric
generating and transmission systems and public telephone systems.
         (b)   While the systems in most cases are meeting current demands, it
is imperative that the public and private groups overseeing these facilities
take steps now to ensure the systems will meet current and projected future
needs. It is also imperative that programs be developed to ensure that aging
facilities are repaired or replaced so that they can continue to be used into
the future.
         (c)   A number of recent improvement projects have been undertaken
that have begun to implement these goals and many others are currently being
planned. It is important to note that the purpose of this report is not to
identify all of the infrastructure improvements that will be needed during the
planning period. Instead, it is to overview the most significant planned
improvements or studies underway that are under the jurisdiction of local
governmental agencies, in order that the community can see how projects
interconnect and to assist in the implementation of the plans.
         (d)   A list of key infrastructure improvements and studies that have
occurred recently follows:
            1.   Vincennes Sewer Master Plan. This project identified the sewer
needs of the City of Vincennes. It also evaluated the existing sewer system and
made recommendations for expansion. These upgrades are currently in progress.
            2.   Vincennes Main Street Improvements. This project involved the
construction of improvements along Main Street in downtown Vincennes including
new brick pavers along the sidewalks, new pavement, new concrete curbs and
gutters, and other landscaping features.
         3.   Riverfront Revitalization Study. This revitalization project will
include construction of a scenic pedestrian walkway complete with exposed
aggregate concrete pavement, landscaping, benches, and street lighting.
Drainage improvements will also be considered as part of the project.
         4.   North Knox County Sewer Master Plan. This project identified the
sewer needs of the northern portions of the county. It made recommendations for
the expansion and implementation of needed sewer improvements. Although this
effort has stalled over the past few years, local officials are currently
working to re-start these activities for Bruceville, Bicknell, Edwardsport,
Freelandville and their surrounding communities.
         5.   Sandborn and Westphalia Sewer Project. This project will involve
the installation of low pressure sanitary sewers and a re-circulating sand
filter system to serve the town of Sandborn, and eventually the town of
Westphalia. Efforts are currently in the right-of-way and funding acquisition
phases.
         6.   Oaktown Sewer Project. This project included the completion of a
sewer master plan study, facility plan preparation and the design of the
recommended improvements for the previously non-sewered Oaktown.
         7.   Decker Water Project. This feasibility study resulted in the
recommendation of drilling additional water wells for the Town of Decker.
Community grant funds have been obtained and construction contracts are
currently being negotiated.
   (E)   Residential development considerations.
      (1)   Currently residential development in the county is occurring
primarily in and around the City of Vincennes. Several subdivisions have been
developed and several more are currently underway. Recent developments have
been constructed northeast along Bruceville Road and Old U.S. Highway 50, and
southeast along S.R. 61.
      (2)   A number of issues have repeatedly been a concern in recent
residential developments. First, traffic flow from residential development onto
collector streets has not been well organized. For example, multiple residences
have been constructed with individual drives onto heavily traveled county
roads, creating a traffic hazard. Consolidating the driveways to one access
point off the county road would improve the situation.
      (3)   Second, as previously mentioned, residential developments have
often not included sufficient drainage facilities. This will be improved after
the implementation of a county drainage ordinance.
      (4)   Third, soil conditions have limited the effectiveness of on-site
septic systems in many subdivisions. This has resulted in inadequate wastewater
treatment, resulting in a health threat to nearby residents. It is desired that
these conditions be improved through the construction of improved on site
septic systems or by the extension of public sewers to the area. It is further
desired that new developments be constructed on public sewers or with
adequately sized septic systems designed with soil conditions and local
topography under consideration.
   (F)   Commercial development considerations.
      (1)   Commercial activities are important both for the services they
provide to the resident population and for their economic role in providing tax
income and employment. Currently commercial development is occurring in four
basic areas: Hart Street (Vincennes), 6th Street (Vincennes), Downtown
(Vincennes) and Bicknell.
      (2)   A number of issues have also repeatedly been mentioned concerning
commercial development. First, commercial development must have human-made or
natural barriers to serve as a buffer between residential and commercial land
use areas. These buffers will also help to protect against the build up of
mixed-use areas. Secondly, the downtown riverfront historic district has been
repeatedly mentioned as an area that commercial enhancement should occur,
although there are concerns about preserving its historical integrity.
   (G)   Industrial development considerations.
      (1)   Industry is normally expected to support a substantial share of a
community's population. Industrial development can both be a stabilizer of the
tax base and can provide additional opportunities for the county's residents.
      (2)   There are several new industrial parks that have recently been
proposed. Two are located outside Vincennes while the other industrial park is
located in Bicknell.
   (H)   Agricultural development considerations.
      (1)   (a)   The importance of agriculture to the county goes beyond land
use analysis in that agriculture plays a critical part in defining the physical
and functional character of the county. Large segments of the county rely upon
farming for employment.
         (b)   The preservation of prime farmland has been a major issue at
both the state and national levels.
      (2)   (a)   Much discussion and research was devoted to determine if the
county has experienced a decrease in prime cropland acres. Based upon an
analysis of data provided by Ralph Gann, the Indiana State Statistician, and by
Brad Summers with the Farm Service Agency, it was determined that although Knox
county has experienced a decrease in "farmland" acres, the county has
experienced little change in actual "cropland" acres since 1987.
         (b)   The table summarizes statistics for the county farmland and
cropland.
Knox County Farm Land Use History
Total Land Area = 330,150 acres
Year Farmland Cropland Pasture Woodland
Knox County Farm Land Use History
Total Land Area = 330,150 acres
Year Farmland Cropland Pasture Woodland
1900 305,966  n/a      n/a     n/a
1910 309,087  n/a      n/a     n/a
1920 299,751  n/a      n/a     n/a
1930 291,383  176,953  52,379  7,320
1940 289,939  169,081  n/a     n/a
1950 309,771  202,243  58,731  10,023
1959 302,364  209,342  n/a     12,123
1964 297,518  194,764  n/a     12,766
1969 299,814  193,751  n/a     n/a
1974 286,481  215,283  n/a     n/a
1978 295,809  228,928  29,429  9,695
1982 291,246  241,122  20,095  12,613
1987 309,372  222,449  18,592  11,998
1992 305,634  258,958  16,307  11,305
1997 280,628  243,509  14,379  10,372
Source: Indiana Agricultural Statistics Service (http://www.nass.usda.gov/
census/) U.S. Census of Agriculture, Assembled February, 1999.
 
      (3)   It is recognized that the county has the potential of losing
"cropland" acres; however, at this time, such a trend has not been identified.
This issue should be carefully addressed during future studies and updates to
the comprehensive plan and supporting ordinances.
      (4)   Another concern for agriculture in the county is the widespread
existence of mining operations. As shown herein, mining is very abundant in the
county area. The coal reserves provided by the mining industry play an integral
role in the county's economic health and will continue to be a tremendous
factor in future generations. Mining provides jobs for a substantial portion of
the county's population and also contributes considerable amounts to the
county's tax base.
      (5)   Coal mining is recognized as only a temporary use of land. The
reclamation of mining land back into farmland is another key issue for the
preservation of the county's agriculture.
(Res. 2004-8, passed - -2004; Res. 5-2008, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 153.04  GOALS AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Definition and purpose. Goals and objectives are statements of desired
ends that are to be reflected in the future development of the county, and over
which the Area Plan Commission does have a certain degree of control. These
goals are a direct reflection of the community's basic values and long-range
potential, the Commission's function is to assist the community in reviewing
its standards and aiming at higher but realistically attainable goals.
   (B)   Public participation.
      (1)   Value. Public realization of the value of the comprehensive plan in
terms of effecting a safer, healthier and more pleasant living environment is
of course essential to the maximum success of the plan. To make sure that this
realization is occurring, public workshops were organized and held at various
locations throughout the county in hopes of gathering diverse goals and
objectives from the different communities for the county. Radio and newspaper
advertisements were placed in order to increase the public participation for
these events.
      (2)   Workshops.
         (a)   Goals and objectives.
            1.   As stated previously, public workshops were held in order to
gain a more diverse set of goals and objectives, and to obtain public input on
the future direction of the county. During the first two workshops, general
goals and objectives were discussed and decided upon. Economic development was
chosen as the county's top priority. Other recurring goals were, improving
infrastructure and developing a drainage control plan. The following list
illustrates (in order of priority) the general goals and objectives that were
obtained from those public workshops.
March 2000 Workshop
• Economic Development
• Control Property Tax Rates
• Develop a Vision for the Future
• Improve Transportation Facilities
• County Finances
• Preserve Historic Sites
• Improve Infrastructure
• Develop a Drainage Control Plan
April 2000 Workshop
• Economic Development
• Improve Education
• Improve Infrastructure
• Farmland Preservation
• Develop a Drainage Control Plan
• Organize Growth
• Develop Better Housing (Mid-Income)
• Improve Enforcement of Current Standards
            2.   The Area Plan Commission also independently developed goals
and objectives for the county, without knowledge of the goals and objectives
developed during the public workshops. As before, Economic Development appears
at the top of the list. It is followed by improving the community's
infrastructure. Their list is as follows:
Area Plan Commission Workshop
• Economic Development
• Improve Infrastructure
• Comprehensive Plan Enforcement
• Provide Quality Education
• Provide Affordable Family Housing
• Develop a Drainage Control Plan
• Preserve Farmland
            3.   The next step for the Area Plan Commission was to finalize its
list of goals and objectives, while considering elements from all three lists.
This list is not as general as the first three lists and provides some detail
as how each goal and objective is expected to help the county. The list is
separated into five categories; commercial, industrial, residential,
agricultural and general. The list is as follows:
               a.   Commercial goals and objectives.
                  i.   Promote commercial development by designating prime
commercial land areas with commercial zonings and by creating overlay zonings
to the transition from non-conforming uses to commercial land uses.
                  ii.   Where possible, consolidate existing commercial areas
into more functional units.
                  iii.   Allocate a sufficient amount of land, appropriately
located, to provide for a variety of commercial developments and activities
necessary to serve and support the projected population.
                  iv.   Apply where appropriate, the use of natural or human-
made barriers as a buffer or demarcation between commercial and residential
land use areas.
                  v.   Enhance commercial and recreational uses in the downtown
riverfront historic district, while preserving its historical integrity.
               b.   Industrial goals and objectives.
                  i.   Develop identified industrial land use areas by
providing adequate public utilities, services and facilities so as to
accommodate a diversity of industrial areas.
                  ii.   Improve existing industrial areas by providing such
areas with an adequate range of public utilities, services and facilities.
                  iii.   Apply where appropriate, the use of natural or human-
made barriers as a buffer or demarcation between industrial and adjacent land
use areas.
               c.   Residential goals and objectives.
                  i.   Shape existing residential development into functional
neighborhood units.
                  ii.   Promote the development of residential areas into
functional units of a size that will enhance their physical and social identity
and which may be efficiently provided with a full complement of services and
facilities required by the residents.
                  iii.   Specifically, develop guidelines for the development
of large lot subdivisions that are currently exempt from subdivision control
requirements.
                  iv.   Provide adequate recreational space and open space
within and between planned residential areas.
                  v.   Maintain quality residential neighborhood environments
in both rural and urban settings.
                  vi.   Update street designations throughout the county to
enhance the safety of transportation routes.
                  vii.   Develop and implement land use and zoning provisions
for modern residential developments; including condominiums and other similar
private housing developments.
                  viii.   Enhance the overall quality of new residential
developments through the adoption of consistent subdivision control
requirements.
                  ix.   Protect the environment and the health of residents by
promoting the development of residential areas in areas where wastewater can be
adequately treated.
                  x.   Develop residential areas such that storm water runoff
is not increased by the development.
                  xi.   Encourage the development of a variety of housing types
and locations by allowing for the use of housing types ranging from single
family homes to multi-family apartments and providing for variations in the
design of these areas and their related facilities.
                  xii.   Residential areas should have varying densities
dependent upon the physical characteristics of the land, type of development,
location and degree of improvements.
                  xiii.   Multiple family residential areas should always be
located functionally convenient to an arterial or collector street. Adequate
arterial and collector streets should exist prior to or be developed
concurrently with the development of multiple family uses.
                  xiv.   Since multiple residential areas are complementary to
shopping areas and other primary service facilities, they may logically be
developed adjacent to such uses.
                  xv.   High density multiple-family residential uses should be
located adjoining or convenient to arterial streets with preference given those
routes which provide the most convenient and direct access (in terms of travel
time) to the major trade and employment centers of the area.
                  xvi.   Low density of multiple-family residential uses should
be located as a transitional use between higher density multiples and single
family residential densities.
                  xvii.   Promote the development of affordable and middle-
income residential developments.
               d.   Agricultural goals and objectives.
                  i.   Balance the preservation of agricultural lands with the
expansion of developed areas.
                  ii.   Allow the establish-ment of agriculturally related
industries within agricultural areas.
                  iii.   Ensure the continued operation of existing mining
related industries and promote the establishment of new mining operations
within portions of agricultural areas where there is coal or other minerals.
                  iv.   Designate areas and development standards for the
development of confined livestock operations.
                  v.   Encourage soil conservation and erosion control
practices.
               e.   General goals and objectives.
                  i.   Implement storm water drainage regulations to require
that the rate of storm water runoff from a site after development be limited to
the rate of storm water runoff before development through the use of drainage
basins or other appropriate measures.
                  ii.   Implement mechanisms that will encourage compliance
with these land use goals.
                  iii.   Expand municipal infrastructure in order to attract
and accommodate commercial, industrial and residential growth.
                  iv.   Provide land use and zoning provisions for the future
expansion of schools and libraries in order to provide more and better quality
education.
                  v.   Provide clear zoning and land use provisions enforcing
the construction of adequate on-site wastewater disposal systems for
commercial, residential and industrial developments. Development will be
restricted where minimum lot sizes cannot be achieved, or where topography or
soil conditions are prohibiting the installation of a functional system.
                  vi.   Expand residential land use and zoning provisions to
include a step-by-step plan for the submittal, review and inspection of
residential, commercial and industrial development.
                  vii.   The use of land to meet the needs of future growth
should be confined to the areas delineated in the Land Use Plan for those
purposes, where transportation and community facilities can be provided through
the planning period.
                  viii.   Lands in natural drainage courses, floodways, marshes
and otherwise unsuitable areas, because of topographic or geologic
characteristics, should remain undeveloped or in agriculture as an
accommodation from development and to provide areas for needed open space.
                  ix.   Lands not well suited to development because of natural
characteristics should be permanently reserved for agriculture or as open space
through action by public agencies, by establishing scenic easements or through
land use regulation.
                  x.   Integrity of the Land Use Plan, as a guide to
establishing the most fitting pattern of land use, must be maintained if the
basic goals of the comprehensive planning program are to be achieved.
                  xi.   Strip development bordering existing streets, whether
for residential or commercial use, should be discouraged as it adds to traffic
hazards, is costly in terms of providing community services and facilities and
frequently produces "dead" interior land areas.
                  xii.   Planned Unit Developments, for a specific use or an
appropriate mix of uses should be encouraged as a means of achieving good
quality neighborhoods and creativity in urban design.
                  xiii.   Encourage the adequate provision of public services,
facilities and infrastructure as necessary to meet the goals and objectives of
this plan.
                  xiv.   Encourage the development of community parks with
provisions for open recreational area, walking, sitting, family group
activities, picnicking and enjoyment of attractive natural or landscaped areas.
         (b)   Land use.
            1.   The final set of goals and objectives was then ultimately used
in the determination of the land use plan.
            2.   During the workshops, composite land use plans were drawn and
presented by the attendees. These land use plans were a direct correlation to
the goals and objectives created in these workshops. The composite land use
plans can be reviewed in the County Area Plan Office. These land use composites
were then presented to the Area Plan Commission so a final proposed land use
plan could be created from the land use composites and the goals and
objectives. The proposed land use plan is illustrated herein and discussed in §
153.05.
(Res. 2004-8, passed - -2004; Res. 5-2008, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 153.05  LAND USE PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   A study of land use is necessary to properly understand the social,
economic and physical forces, which direct a community or region's development.
The existing land use pattern is a major factor when considering the intensity
and location of future development, public facilities and transportation
routes.
      (2)   This section of the comprehensive plan describes the existing land
use pattern in the county, land development problems and likely trends of
future development pressures.
   (B)   Land use categories.
      (1)   The land use plan depicted herein shows the land proposed in the
several use categories over the next 20 years. Areas have been set aside for
the various land use activities as they are expected to be developed in future
years. Although the proposed areas may not be fully utilized during the next 20
years, these areas should be retained for their ultimate designated usage.
      (2)   Retaining the land for the uses designated will in effect,
throughout future years, establish creditability to the comprehensive plan.
Residences can be built with a trust that adjoining properties will be
developed as shown on the Land Use Plan, and commercial and industrial uses can
be established with an assurance that residential encroachments will not occur.
      (3)   The existing land use for the county is summarized in §
153.03(D). As indicated previously, farmland dominates the overall county
landscape. The categories used in the land use plan are discussed as follows:
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   The primary purpose of land development is the creation of
stable residential areas, which contain pleasant homes served by adequate
street systems, and which are properly related to commercial areas, employment
centers and open space.
            2.   Generally, residential growth areas have been indicated
throughout the county to provide for additional dwelling unit development.
Residential use areas are also designed to maintain existing development at its
current level of quality.
            3.   The areas of residential land use as illustrated on the Land
Use Plan are intended to be the desired areas of future development. Within
each part of the county, requests for varying housing types may be expected. As
higher density uses are proposed, it will be the responsibility of the Planning
Committee to evaluate such requests in relationship to the capacity of the
supporting services (streets, utilities, schools and parks) to meet expected
demands.
            4.   Generally, the plan proposes residential development in those
areas not devoted to commercial, industrial and agricultural. Most of the
expected residential development is shown to occur just northeast of Vincennes.
There is some residential growth, however, located southeast along S.R. 61 and
some spot growth around Edwardsport, Westphalia, Freelandville, Monroe City and
Sandborn.
         (b)   Commercial.
            1.   Conveniently located business areas of sufficient size to
offer an adequate range of goods and services are as important to good
community development as schools, parks and utilities. The need for a full
range of business and commercial development is recognized and should include
neighborhood, community and central business centers and other general
commercial concentrations performing special functions in order to insure
sound, balanced development of new commercial areas and the improvement of
existing ones. The total amount of land allocated for all business and
commercial uses should be scaled to demonstrate demands and needs
            2.   After reviewing several resources, including economic
development considerations, commercial development was proposed to occur
between Bicknell and Sandborn on S.R. 67, along Hart Street and Sixth Street in
Vincennes, with spot growth occurring around some of the incorporated towns.
         (c)   Industrial.
            1.   Modern industrial plants range in quality of design from
generally fair to a few true architectural masterpieces, but they are seldom
the eyesores of the past. The industrial park is both efficient and aesthetic.
Furthermore, the use of modern industrial zoning codes, enable counties to
protect themselves against the undesirable characteristics of some plants. The
things that modern industries do need are space and utilities.
            2.   With keeping these two factors in mind, growth is expected to
occur south of Vincennes along U.S. 41, east of Vincennes along U.S. 50, and
some spot development around Bicknell, Sandborn and Vincennes.
            3.   Another resource that was used in determining proper
industrial development site locations was the County Development Corporation
Industrial Site Selection and Feasibility Study.
         (d)   Agricultural.
            1.   The county consists of primarily agricultural land, with
portions of commercial, industrial and residential land uses throughout.
Increasingly, new scattered residential development is occurring throughout the
county for residents seeking to experience the rural way of life. The pattern
of agriculture is also interrupted adjacent to incorporated areas of the county
with expanding commercial and industrial development.
            2.   An issue in agricultural development is the preservation of
existing farmland. As mentioned previously, it was determined that although the
county has experienced a decrease in "farmland" acres, the county has
experienced little change in actual "cropland" acres since 1987. Aggressive
regulation for the preservation of prime farmland in the county does not seem
practical at this time. However, this issue should be carefully addressed
during future studies and updates to the comprehensive plan and supporting
ordinances.
            3.   A presumption is that mining operations will continue to
encroach upon agricultural areas in the county. Research reveals that only
underground mined areas are still considered farmland acres. Surface mined
areas are not counted as farmland acres until they are reclaimed. Both federal
and state reclamation laws ensure that if mined land was previously used for
agriculture, once the coal mining is complete, the land that supported that
mine is put back into prime farmland standards.
(Res. 2004-8, passed - -2004; Res. 5-2008, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 153.06  TRANSPORTATION PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose. The main function of a transportation plan is to organize
traffic generated by the major land use activities in the county and to provide
for the most efficient movement of traffic from origin to destination within
reasonable bounds. As a result, the pattern of routes in the comprehensive plan
is derived by taking both topography and land use into account. As shown in the
proposed street classification map, arterial streets have been proposed to
connect main concentrations of population by as direct routes as possible. The
following proposals have been made for arterial streets and highways in the
county.
   (B)   Proposed plan.
      (1)   County plan.
 
Principal Arterials    Minor Arterials
U.S. 41-50-150 By-pass S.R. 58 S.R. 159
U.S. 41                S.R. 59 S.R. 241
U/S/ 50-150            S.R. 61 S.R. 441
                       S.R.. 67 S.R. 550
 
Collectors
• Bicknell Road (a.k.a. Bicknell-Wheatland Slab)
• 6th Street Road from Vincennes south
• Decker Chapel Road
• Freelandville Road
• Hoods Road
• Old Decker Road
• Old Highway 41 north of Vincennes
• Old Highway 67 north of Vincennes
• Old Highway 50 east of Vincennes
• Hart Street Road
• Old Bruceville Road
• Hillcrest Road
      (2)   Plan for urban areas. Many of the local urban streets and roads are
proposed to be generally classified as local. All other urban streets and roads
are classified as follows:
Vincennes
• U.S. 41 - Principal Arterial
• U.S. 50-150 - Principal Arterial
• S.R. 61 - Minor Arterial
• S.R. 441 - Minor Arterial
• 6th Street - Minor Arterial
• Willow Street - Minor Arterial
• Old Wheatland Road from Old Bruceville Road to 6th Street - Collector
• Old Highway 50 - Collector
• Old Bruceville Road - Collector
• Hart Street - Collector
• Main Street - Collector
• Washington Avenue - Collector
• 2nd Street - Collector
• 7th Street - Collector
• 15th Street west of Hart Street - Collector
• Vigo Street from 7th Street to the Wabash River - Collector
• St. Clair Street - Collector
• Kimmell Road - Collector
• Niblack Blvd. - Collector
• Executive Blvd. - Collector
• Belle Crossing - Collector
• Hillcrest Road - Collector
Bicknell
• S.R. 67 - Minor Arterial
• S.R.-159 - Minor Arterials
• Bruceville Avenue - Collector
• Main Street - Collector
• Washington Street - Collector
• White River Avenue - Collector
• 3rd Street - Collector
• Alexander Street - Collector
Edwardsport
• S.R. 67 - Minor Arterial
• Freelandville Road - Collector
• Shipping Street - Collector
• Water Street - Collector
• Albert Street - Collector
Sandborn
• S.R. 67 - Minor Arterial
• S.R. 59 - Minor Arterial
• Cemetery Road - Collector
• College Street- Collector
• Shutesville Road - Collector
• Sand Road - Collector
Decker
• S.R. 241/Main Street - Minor Arterial
• 3rd Street - Collector
• Oak Street - Collector
• 1st Street - Collector
Bruceville
• S.R. 67 - Minor Arterial
• S.R. 550/Main Street - Minor Arterial
Monroe City
• S.R. 61/Main Street - Minor Arterial
• S.R. 241 - Minor Arterial
Oaktown
• U.S. 41 - Principal Arterial
• Maple Street - Collector
• 4th Street - Collector
• State Street - Collector
Wheatland
• U.S. 50-150 - Principal Arterial
• S.R. 550 - Minor Arterial
(Res. 2004-8, passed - -2004; Res. 5-2008, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 153.07  CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a description and
analysis of the customary responsibilities of public agencies in the county for
installing and operating needed capital improvements including those proposed
in this report.
      (1)   The plan must be long range in nature.
      (2)   The plan should be comprehensive in its approach.
      (3)   The plan should be highly coordinated in its proposals.
   (B)   Improvements. The following outlines the recommended capital
improvements for the county, many of which have already been mentioned.
      (1)   Residential plan.
         (a)   All cities and towns should accommodate land for park sites.
         (b)   Septic tanks and regulations need to be inspected and enforced
for new and existing subdivisions.
         (c)   All new housing units and subdivisions need to have a published
drainage plan. This drainage plan needs to be reviewed and enforced.
      (2)   Transportation plan.
         (a)   The majority of the collectors throughout the county need to be
widened and re-paved.
         (b)   Subdivision roads and streets need to be inspected on an
individual basis to determine the appropriate measures to occur, such as re-
paving and/or the addition of a new road or street.
(Res. 2004-8, passed - -2004; Res. 5-2008, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 153.08  IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT SUMMARY.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   The preparation of the comprehensive plan for the county is merely
an initial step in achieving better conditions in which to live and work. With
implementation of the comprehensive plan these better living conditions can be
achieved.
      (2)   Even with the adoption of the comprehensive plan, including
ordinances that are aimed at providing for implementation, much remains to be
done. In order for planning to be effective it must be a continuous process. It
is often the case that many communities spend substantial amounts of time and
money to undertake the basic studies and produce a comprehensive plan, but fail
to follow through to establish planning as a continuous community function.
Often comprehensive plans sit on shelves and gather dust because local leaders
conclude that planning has been completed in the community.
      (3)   The purpose of this report is to define the relationship between
planning and policy making and to offer a number of suggestions as to where the
county needs to head in the future.
   (B)   Implementation plan. Implementation will be done by describing
planning as a function of local governments in terms of professional
administration of the comprehensive plan, procedures for periodic review and
updating of the planning studies, and functions of the Area Plan Commission.
      (1)   Area Plan Commission.
         (a)   The Area Plan Commission of the county has two main functions in
relation to a continuing planning and regulation program, after adoption of the
comprehensive plan and implementing ordinances. They will serve as a referral
agency for all major improvements, which are included in the adopted
comprehensive plan and they will serve as a coordinating agency in the
formulation of the capital improvements mentioned earlier in this report.
         (b)   State law requires that before the comprehensive plans and
Ordinances can be enforced, the Area Plan Commission must adopt them by
resolution and recommend them to the Board of County Commissioners, or Common
Council or Town Board, as may be applicable. After they have been officially
adopted, all plats and re-plats must first have the approval of the Area Plan
Commission.
         (c)   All changes in the use of land or in any structure must conform
to the comprehensive plan and ordinances.
      (2)   Periodic review.
         (a)   A comprehensive plan is normally based upon a 20- to 25-year
projection of needs and potential growth. It is unrealistic, however, to settle
for these projections and assume that at the end of the 20-year period another
planning program will be undertaken for the next 20 to 25 years. This would not
only be unrealistic, but also may seriously overestimate or underestimate the
existing situation in terms of population, economic and developmental needs.
Therefore, measures that would provide for the periodic review of the
comprehensive plan and ordinances should be outlined and initiated at the
initial implementation of the plan itself.
         (b)   There are many variables in our society, which could have a
tremendous impact on development. By periodically reviewing the planning
documents it is intended that these variables be analyzed as to their affect on
the comprehensive plan. These variables include such things as the affects of
technological changes on the local economy, social changes as reflected by
acceptable standards of development, population and economic trends. These
variables are, of course, all interrelated.
         (c)   An extensive review of the comprehensive plan and ordinances
should be undertaken approximately every five years following adoption of the
original plan. Along with the revision of the comprehensive plan and
ordinances, goals and objectives pertaining to future development should also
be reviewed. It is suggested that the procedures used in the preparation of all
previous master plans and master plan updates be used as a basis for the
periodic review and updating of the plan. It is imperative that advice from
professional planning technicians be used in this process to insure that new
techniques and planning methods would be used.
   (C)   Report summary.
      (1)   Introduction. As stated previously, this comprehensive plan is
intended as an instrument of public policy, reflecting the goals and objectives
for the development of the county. It is an official document adopted by local
government as a policy guide to future decisions about the development of its
jurisdiction. This comprehensive plan is a composite of four separate plans:
land use, transportation, capital improvements and implementation.
      (2)   Development considerations. The development considerations for the
county briefly highlight some of the important demographics and statistics
looking both toward the future and from the past. This section gives an in-
depth look at the different land use, soils, floodplain, transportation and
infrastructure considerations in the county. It also discusses county
considerations by breaking them up into four distinct categories: residential,
commercial, industrial and agricultural.
      (3)   Goals and objectives. The Area Plan Commission established goals
and objectives by reviewing several lists and land use plans from workshops
that were held throughout the county. From these goals and objectives the Area
Plan Commission created a final land use plan that is presented in this
comprehensive plan. The goals and objectives were then divided into distinct
categories: commercial, industrial, residential, agricultural and general.
      (4)   Land use plan.
         (a)   Suburban development surrounds the City of Vincennes and extends
well into the prime agricultural areas of the county. Many of the rural
development subdivisions are scattered with pockets of undeveloped land. These
scattered subdivisions are particularly vulnerable to the intrusion of mixed
land use areas.
         (b)   Future development in the county will be affected by the rate of
economic growth in the region and the effectiveness of policies and programs in
the county to maintain its neighborhoods. As the county has been taking an
aggressive leadership role in economic development, numerous land use changes
are taking place. While some are concerned about effects of land use changes,
there are others who oppose any land use controls.
         (c)   Most of the future development that is expected to occur will do
so in and around the City of Vincennes. However, there is expected to be some
residential growth occurring around Monroe City, Oaktown, Freelandville,
Edwardsport, Sandborn, Bruceville and Westphalia. Industrial and commercial
expansion is expected to occur in the outlying areas of Vincennes, Bicknell and
Sandborn. Residential or commercial development is expected to occur on S.R. 61
and Hart Street Road outside of Vincennes.
      (5)   Transportation plan. Transportation facilities and services have
been instrumental in the historical development of the county and continue to
play an important role in the local economy. The highway systems are generally
adequate in transportation of goods and people, though improvements are needed
in county and local roads.
      (6)   Capital improvements plan. This section summarizes all the
improvements to local and county infrastructure to accommodate future and
current expansion. These improvements are broken into two categories:
residential and transportation. Most of these improvements are drainage, sewer
and recreation related.
      (7)   Implementation plan. This section has reviewed the measures
available to the units of local government in implementing and regulating the
comprehensive plan, after adoption. Regulatory measures, though less desirable,
are also necessary in providing for orderly growth. This section also discusses
the Area Plan Commissions role in regulating as well as the importance of
periodically reviewing and updating the comprehensive plan and ordinances.
(Res. 2004-8, passed - -2004; Res. 5-2008, passed 12-15-2008)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-983.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-985.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-987.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-989.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-991.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-993.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-995.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-997.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-999.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1001.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e961d607ad0398ceea5a34c57070daf408ca8c34/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1003.jpg]
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
         
II.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
         
III.   VACATIONS AND CLOSINGS
         
IV.   STREET NAME CHANGES; ACCEPTANCES
         
V.   REZONINGS
         
VI.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT
         
VII.   ANNEXATIONS
         
VIII.   FUNDS
TABLE I:  AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.      Date Passed Description
                               Authorizing a contract between the county and
-                  - -         the Vincennes Area Community Development
                               Corporation for economic development
R. 2-1959R         6-2-1959    Granting a gas transmission franchise to
                               Midwestern Gas Transmission Company
R. 6-1962          9-20-1962   Granting an oil franchise to Marathon Pipe Line
                               Company
                               Entering into an agreement for the cooperative
R. 4-1972R         10-2-1972   operation of the Southern Indiana Planning and
                               Development Commission
                               Entering into an agreement for the cooperative
R. 3               5-14-1973   operation of the Southern Indiana Planning and
                               Development Commission
                               Approving an agreement for participation in the
4-1974             11-4-1974   cooperative operation of Southern Indiana
                               Development Commission
R. 2-1976          5-3-1976    Entering into a binding contract with the State
                               Planning Services Agency
4-1977             7-25-1977   Granting a potable water system franchise to
                               Knox County Water, Inc.
                               Requesting the reorganization of the Southern
R. 22-1979         11-5-1979   Indiana Development Commission and remaining a
                               member
3-1980             2-19-1980   Entering into a contract with the Town of
                               Sandborn for animal shelter services
11-1981            10-26-1981  Granting a potable water system franchise to
                               Knox County Water, Inc.
                               Setting an agreement between the County
-                  5-13-1985   Commissioner and KCARC relating to the County
                               Home
Council 3-1985     7-8-1985    Financing certain facility projects with the
                               Vincennes Economic Development Commission
R. 15-1985         7-15-1985   Proposing advertising for lease of certain
                               property
R. -               6-1-1987    Maintaining eligibility for the Southern Indiana
                               Development Commission OEDP
1988-8             7-18-1988   Granting a cable television system franchise to
                               Cable Systems USA Associates
                               Approving second amendment to lease agreement of
R. 8-1993          - -1993     the County Hospital Association to work with
                               John Nuveen & Co., Inc.
R. 5-1994          7-11-1994   Participating in the Wabash River Heritage
                               Corridor Commission
R. 3-1995          2- -1995    Authorizing an agreement between the county and
                               Rex's Body Shop and Garage, Inc.
-                  10-16-1995  Authorizing an agreement between the county and
                               Indiana Farms, Inc.
Joint R. 5-1997    4-7-1997     
                               Directing the E911 Director, through proper
                  4-14-1997   purchasing procedures, may solicit and receive
                               bidding for the purpose of obtaining financing
                               for a centralized communications system
R. 1-1998          1-5-1998    Participating in the Wabash River Heritage
                               Corridor Commission
                               Authorizing an interlocal agreement between the
-                  2-23-1998   county, the City of Vincennes and the Vincennes
                               Area Community Development Corporation
R. 7-1999          6-20-1999   Participating in the Wabash River Heritage
                               Corridor Commission
R. 4-1999          12-31-1999  Participating in the Wabash River Heritage
                               Corridor Commission
                               Supporting an interlocal agreement between the
R. 4-2000          10-16-2000  county and the Knox County Development
                               Corporation
Council R. 2001-5  1-8-2001    Renegotiating the terms of the C.A.G.I.T.
                               repayment agreement
R. 7-2001          11-5-2001   Approving, executing a lease agreement with the
                               Knox County Holding Corporation
R. 8-2001          11-19-2001  Participating in the Wabash River Heritage
                               Corridor Commission
R. 1-2000          12-31-2001  Participating in the Wabash River Heritage
                               Corridor Commission
R. 2003-7          3-17-2003   Executing agreements to purchase real estate for
                               the new jail
                               Amendment; extending and approving a lease
R. -               6-16-2003   agreement with the Knox County Association for
                               Retarded Citizens, Inc.
2003-10            8-4-2003    Granting a non-exclusive cable system franchise
                               to Alliance Communications Partners, LP
R. 2004-2          2-23-2004   Approving the construction and leasing of
                               certain facilities
R. 2004-5          5-3-2004    Approving a proposed lease with Knox County
                               Holding Corporation
R. 2004-6A         5-25-2004   Approving the execution of a lease between the
                               county and the Knox County Building Corporation
R. 2004-6B         11-22-2004  Approving a proposed lease with Knox County
                               Holding Corporation
10-2005            4-18-2005   Granting a franchise to Cinergy Metronet, Inc.
                               for broadband communication systems
R. 2005-13A        5-16-2005   Allowing Black Beauty Coal Company to drive mine
                               vehicles on and over county roads
R. 2005-21         9-26-2005   Executing a lease between the county and Knox
                               County Holding Corporation
R. 2005-24         10-17-2005  Executing a lease between the county and Knox
                               County Building Corporation
Council R. 12-2007 9- -2007    Affirming, ratifying contract for professional
                               services
R. 2007-5          12-3-2007   Participating in the Wabash River Heritage
                               Corridor Commission
Joint R. 1-2009    - -2009     Participating in the Wabash River Heritage
                               Corridor Commission
-                  3-2-2010    Authorizing an agreement with the Town of
                               Sandborn to repair and cut roads
-                  9-7-2010    Authorizing an agreement with the Vincennes
                               Water Utility regarding GIS data
                               Approving the transfer of the cable franchise
R. 2013-5          2-20-2013   from Telecommunications Management, LLC, dba
                               NewWave Communications, to RBI Holding II, LLC
                               Authorizing a lease-purchase agreement with
R. 2013-6          2-20-2013   Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, to
                               acquire equipment
                               Authorizing an agreement for professional
- -                1-29-2015   services with Lochmueller Group Inc. (F/K/
                               A Bernardin, Lochmueller and Associates, Inc.)
                               for routine inspections.
                              
 
TABLE II:  REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.   Date Passed         Description
R. 3-1959R      5-14-1959           Executing purchasing and lease agreement of
                                    certain equipment
R. 4-1959R      5-15-1959           Executing purchasing and lease agreement of
                                    certain equipment
R. 4-1961       - -1961             Considering a repurchasing agreement for
                                    certain equipment
R. 2            9-4-1963            Allowing interested buyers to purchase
                                    certain real estate
R. 1-1968R      - -1968             Authorizing loan and agreement with the
                                    County Hospital Association
R. 2            7-1-1968            Allowing interested buyers to purchase
                                    certain real estate
R. 2-1972R      - -1972             Proposing to sell approximately nine acres
R. 3-1972R      - -1972             Resolving to sell 1.27 acres of real estate
R. 5-1975       2-17-1975           Accepting donated land
R. 19-1979      - -1979             Accepting a deed from the State Highway
                                    Commission for seven acres of ground
R. 8-1980       9-8-1980            Resuming control of property on which was
                                    previously located the old Orphan's Home
R. 1-1981       2-11-1981           Proposing for the use of real property
R. 7-1987       9-21-1987           Proposing the transfer of the Fort Knox II
                                    site
1-1987          11-16-1987          Purchasing real estate known as Ye Old Meat
                                    Shoppe
R. 2-1990       3-19-1990           Authorizing the purchase of the State
                                    Street Medical Center
R. 1-1992       4-6-1992            Offering for sale certain $500-tracts of
                                    land
R. 2-1993       1-11-1993           Approving the sale of real estate to the
                                    County Hospital Association
                                    Authorizing the sale and building upon
R. 1-1993       3-1-1993            property owned by the American National
                                    Bank of Vincennes
R. 3-1997       3-17-1997           Authorizing the sale of property at 201
                                    North Line Street
10-1997         5-19-1997           Granting the authority to Solar Sources
                                    Underground, LLC, for a road crossing
                                    Authorizing the sale of property on Barnett
R. 7-1997       8-4-1997            Street and property at 111 East New Albany
                                    Street
11-19999        12-20-1999          Conveying certain real estate to the
                                    Bicknell Development Corporation
Council 2005-3A 9-13-2005           Amendment; Ord. 2005-3 to increase
                                    limitation on lease
Council 2005-7  - -2005             Amendment; Ord. 2005-3 to increase
                                    limitation on lease
R. 2006-1       1-23-2006           Selling unnecessary real estate
Council 2-2007  - -2007             Conveying The Hillcrest Building to
                                    Southern Indiana Home Ownership, Inc.
Council 2-2008  3-11-2007           Conveying The Hillcrest Building to
                                    Southern Indiana Home Ownership, Inc.
R. 1-2009       1-26-2009           Consenting to encroachments for S-Mart Real
                                    Estate, Inc.
R. 09-05        5-4-2009            Recommending the purchasing 824 Busseron
                                    Street
R. 2010-4       5-17-2010           Transferring 519 Alton Street to the City
                                    of Bicknell
R. 2010-5       8-16-2010           Transferring 409 West Second Street to the
                                    City of Bicknell
                                    Authorizing the transfer of real estate
Joint 1-2014    1-22-2014 2-11-2014 commonly referred to as the Knox County
                                    Poor Farm to New Hope Center, Inc.
4-2015          3-16-2015           Disposing of Lot 45 in the East Side
                                    Addition of the city of Bicknell, Indiana
                                    Transferring real property from the Knox
R. 1-2017       2-22-2017           County Commissioners to Bicknell Bulldog
                                    Development Corporation
                                    Transferring real property from the Knox
R. 2-2017       2-22-2017           County Commissioners to the Vincennes
                                    Redevelopment Commission
                                   
 
TABLE III:  VACATIONS AND CLOSINGS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.  Date Passed Description
R. 5-1962R     9-5-1962    Closing temporarily portions of State Highways 41
                           and 50
R. 9-1978      - -1978     Relocating a county highway
R. 5-1979      - -1979     Closing truck traffic on county highways for 14 days
                           due to weather damage
                           Closing a road running between C.R. 700 N and C.R.
R. 13-1979     - -1979     800 N for 48-hour periods due to hazardous
                           agricultural operations
R. 4-1983      8-1-1983    Closing temporarily portions of C.R. SE 1250 E, C.R.
                           SE 750 S, C.R. SE 500 S and C.R. SE 1400 E
                           Vacating the alley 12 feet wide and 272.3 feet long
10-1987        11-16-1987  running from Memering Drive in the Sievers-Memering
                           Subdivision No. 1 to Sievers Drive in the same
                           subdivision
9-1987         12- -1987   Vacating C.R. 675 N in Vigo Township
2-1988         3-7-1988    Vacating Kixmiller Avenue
1988-6         6-20-1988   Vacating a platted but unimproved public way known
                           as The Circle
1988-7         7-18-1988   Vacating a platted but unimproved street between
                           Lots 12 and 13 in Hillcrest Acres Subdivision
R. 1990-6      10-15-1990  Vacating part of the right-of-way along Mantle ditch
                           which runs through Strodtman's Second Subdivision
19-1991        12-2-1991   Vacating a portion of Vigo Street
R. 5-93        8-2-1993    Closing a portion of C.R. SE 1500 E and a portion of
                           C.R. SE 400 S for a period of five years
1              9-11-1995   Vacating a portion of Elevator Street
21-1995        10-16-1995  Vacating a portion of Bierhaus Avenue
                           Vacating, crossing and excavating a portion of C.R.
R. 4-1996      5-20-1996   SE 400 S and a portion of C.R. SE 1400 E for a
                           period of seven years
16-1997        7-7-1997    Vacating a platted roadway that had never been open
                           to public use
R. 12-1999     12-20-1999  Closing permanently Otto Street in South Vincennes
                           Subdivision
R. 13-1999     - -1999     Closing permanently an alley between Wills and Lyons
                           Avenue
10-2000        6-19-2000   Vacating a portion of First Street
15-2000        4-2-2001    Vacating a platted alley
9-2002         10-21-2002  Vacating part of Dowell Drive in Balla Machre Place
2003-8A        8-18-2003   Vacating a portion of Bierhaus Avenue
R. 2005-15A    5-16-2005   Temporarily closing a portion of Lost Tree Road
R. 2005-16A    5-16-2005   Temporarily closing a portion of Horn Road
12-2006        3-20-2006   Vacating a portion of Ewing Avenue that runs
                           parallel to 182 W. Niblack Road
2007-6         7-17-2007   Vacating Villwock Road and a portion of C.R. 500 N
2008-6         5-5-2008    Vacating portions of C.R. 500 N and Third Street
2011-3         4-4-2011    Vacating land originally platted as First Street in
                           Freelandville, IN
5-2013         4-15-2013   Vacating a portion of Schoolhouse Road between Five
                           Oaks Road and Bulldog Road
13-2013        7-15-2013   Closing certain public roads in the county
                           Repealing portions of Ord. 13-2013, to reestablish
14-2013        8-19-2013   Patrick Road and Steen Road (a.k.a. Steen Bottom
                           Road) as county roads or highways
                           Vacating a strip of land between 106 E. 16th Street
12-2014        11-17-2014  and 15th Street, known as Lyons Avenue and part of
                           South Vincennes
3-2015         3-16-2015   Closing a part of MJ Road
Council 2-2016 5-16-2016   Reopening Field Road, Lost Road, and Hazelton Road
2016-5         6-20-16     Accepting Bordeaux Drive, Gallo Lane and Silver Oak
                           Lane as county roads
                          
 
TABLE IV:  STREET NAME CHANGES; ACCEPTANCES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 2-1962R    2-1-1962    Opening traffic and accepting certain highways back
                          into the county highway system
R. 3-1962R    2-1-1962    Opening traffic and accepting certain highways back
                          into the county highway system
R. 12-1979    7-9-1979    Accepting Lindsey Lane into the county highway system
R. 8-1982     6-28-1982   Changing the name of North Sixth Street to Executive
                          Boulevard
                          Adopting, accepting and naming River Road, Henderson
R. 5-1983     9-6-1983    Road, South Sixth Street Road, Brevoort Road,
                          Cathlinette Road and Vieke Road
9-88          - -1988     Accepting Meier Circle as a county road
2-2008        1-22-2008   Accepting Pine Hill Drive as a public roadway and
                          reaffirming the name Pine Hill Drive
2008-10       5-19-2008   Accepting Pine Hill Drive as a public roadway
                          Changing the name of South Wheatland Road to Gray
09-03         9-21-2009   Barn Road and changing the name of Bill Road to Glenn
                          Road
2015-10       10-19-2015  Naming previously unnamed road as Wesley Road
3-2016        6-20-2016   Accepting Fox Run Drive as a public way
                         
 
TABLE V:  REZONINGS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.  Date Passed Description
-              - -         Rezoning certain territory
6-1972         - -1972     Rezoning certain territory
1-1972         3-20-1972   Rezoning certain territory
2-1972         8-7-1972    Rezoning certain territory
1-1973         4-9-1973    Rezoning certain territory
2-1973         4-9-1973    Rezoning certain territory
5-1973         7-16-1973   Rezoning certain territory
6-1973         8-13-1973   Rezoning certain territory
8-1973         10-8-1973   Rezoning certain territory
10-1973        11-13-1973  Rezoning certain territory
1-1974         4-8-1974    Rezoning certain territory
5-1974         12-9-1974   Rezoning certain territory
4-1975         - -1975     Rezoning certain territory
5-1975         12-8-1975   Rezoning certain territory
3-1976         5-10-1976   Rezoning certain territory
1-1977         2-7-1977    Rezoning certain territory
2-1977         3-7-1977    Rezoning certain territory
5-1977         5-9-1977    Rezoning certain territory
7-1977         11-7-1977   Rezoning certain territory
8-1977         12-12-1977  Rezoning certain territory
3-1978         - -1978     Rezoning certain territory
1-1978         1-19-1978   Rezoning certain territory
14-1978        9-11-1978   Rezoning certain territory
1-1980         1-7-1980    Rezoning certain territory
6-1980         - -1980     Rezoning certain territory
10-1980        - -1980     Rezoning certain territory
8-1980         9-29-1980   Rezoning certain territory
12-1981        - -1981     Rezoning certain territory
13-1981        - -1981     Rezoning certain territory
1-1981         5-11-1981   Rezoning certain territory
2-1981         5-11-1981   Rezoning certain territory
9-1981         7-13-1981   Rezoning certain territory
10-1981        10-19-1981  Rezoning certain territory
8-1982         - -1982     Rezoning certain territory
9-1982         - -1982     Rezoning certain territory
10-1982        - -1982     Rezoning certain territory
4-1982         4-12-1982   Rezoning certain territory
5-1982         4-12-1982   Rezoning certain territory
1-1983         - -1983     Rezoning certain territory
2-1983         - -1983     Rezoning certain territory
3-1983         - -1983     Rezoning certain territory
5-1983         - -1983     Rezoning certain territory
6-1983         - -1983     Rezoning certain territory
1-1984         - -1984     Rezoning certain territory
2-1984         3-19-1984   Rezoning certain territory
3-1984         4-16-1984   Rezoning certain territory
2-1985         3-18-1985   Rezoning certain territory
2              3-17-1986   Rezoning certain territory
5-1986         5-19-1986   Rezoning certain territory
5-1988         6-20-1988   Rezoning certain territory
3-1989         8-7-1989    Rezoning certain territory
4-1989         12-14-1989  Rezoning certain territory
4-1990         5-3-1980    Rezoning certain territory
5-1990         6-18-1990   Rezoning certain territory
7-1990         10-3-1990   Rezoning certain territory
8-1990         10-3-1990   Rezoning certain territory
2-1991         - -1991     Rezoning certain territory
3-1991         - -1991     Rezoning certain territory
8-1991         - -1991     Rezoning certain territory
3-1992         4- -1992    Rezoning certain territory
1-1992         5-4-1992    Rezoning certain territory
1992-6         8-17-1992   Rezoning certain territory
5-1922         9-21-1992   Rezoning certain territory
12-92          12-7-1992   Rezoning certain territory
11-1992        12-21-1992  Rezoning certain territory
3-1993         4-19-1993   Rezoning certain territory
4-1993         6-7-1993    Rezoning certain territory
6-1993         9-8-1993    Rezoning certain territory
7-1993         12-20-1993  Rezoning certain territory
8-1993         1-18-1994   Rezoning certain territory
6-1994         5-5-1994    Rezoning certain territory
7-1994         5-16-1994   Rezoning certain territory
12-1994        12-9-1994   Rezoning certain territory
13-1995        - -1995     Rezoning certain territory
23-1995        - -1995     Rezoning certain territory
1-1995         3-20-1995   Rezoning certain territory
5-1995         3-20-1995   Rezoning certain territory
7-1995         5-15-1995   Rezoning certain territory
12-1995        6-19-1995   Rezoning certain territory
20-1995        10-12-1995  Rezoning certain territory
16-1995        10-16-1995  Rezoning certain territory
12-1996        - -1996     Rezoning certain territory
2-1996         3-18-1996   Rezoning certain territory
4-1996         6-3-1996    Rezoning certain territory
9-1996         9-4-1996    Rezoning certain territory
11-1996        11-12-1996  Rezoning certain territory
3-1997         - -1997     Rezoning certain territory
4-1997         - -1997     Rezoning certain territory
11-1997        - -1997     Rezoning certain territory
15-1997        - -1997     Rezoning certain territory
2-1997         3-17-1997   Rezoning certain territory
9-1997         5-5-1997    Rezoning certain territory
6-1997         5-19-1997   Rezoning certain territory
8-1997         5-19-1997   Rezoning certain territory
12-1997        5-30-1997   Rezoning certain territory
7-1997         6-16-1997   Rezoning certain territory
14-1997        7-2-1997    Rezoning certain territory
13-1998        - -1998     Rezoning certain territory
17-1997        1-9-1998    Rezoning certain territory
1-1998         3-2-1998    Rezoning certain territory
9-1998         5-14-1998   Rezoning certain territory
10-1998        5-18-1998   Rezoning certain territory
14-1998        11-16-1998  Rezoning certain territory
13-1999        2-7-1999    Rezoning certain territory
3-1999         6-8-1999    Rezoning certain territory
6-1999         7-19-1999   Rezoning certain territory
7-1999         9-20-1999   Rezoning certain territory
8-1999         9-20-1999   Rezoning certain territory
9-1999         9-20-1999   Rezoning certain territory
10-1999        10-18-1999  Rezoning certain territory
11-2000        - -2000     Rezoning certain territory
9-2000         7-10-2000   Rezoning certain territory
14-2000        9-18-2000   Rezoning certain territory
6-2001         - -2001     Rezoning certain territory
4-2001         7-18-2001   Rezoning certain territory
5-2001         7-18-2001   Rezoning certain territory
11-2001        10-15-2001  Rezoning certain territory
12-2001        11-19-2001  Rezoning certain territory
13-2001        12-17-2001  Rezoning certain territory
4-2002         - -2002     Rezoning certain territory
5-2002         - -2002     Rezoning certain territory
3-2002         4- -2002    Rezoning certain territory
11-2003        10-20-2003  Rezoning certain territory
2004-04        5-17-2004   Rezoning certain territory
2004-6         8-16-2004   Rezoning certain territory
R. 2005-14A    5-16-2005   Rezoning certain territory
2007-7         - -2007     Rezoning certain territory
2007-12        - -2007     Rezoning certain territory
2007-10        1-7-2008    Rezoning certain territory
2007-11        1-7-2008    Rezoning certain territory
2-2008         3-11-2007   Rezoning certain territory
2008-9         - -2008     Rezoning certain territory
14-2008        - -2008     Rezoning certain territory
3-2008         3-10-2008   Amendment; rezoning certain territory
8-2008         4-2-2008    Rezoning certain territory
2012-1         3-19-2012   Rezoning certain territory
1-2013         3-18-2013   Rezoning certain territory
2013-12        8-19-2013   Rezoning certain territory
2013-17        10-21-2013  Rezoning certain territory
2014-2         3-17-2014   Rezoning certain territory
2014-4         4-21-2014   Rezoning certain territory
Council 2014-6 7-21-2014   Rezoning certain property
2015-1         3-16-2015   Rezoning certain property
2015-2         3-16-2015   Rezoning certain property
2016-4         7-18-2016   Rezoning certain property
2016-7         8-15-2016   Rezoning certain property
2016-8         8-15-2016   Rezoning certain property
2017-2         4-17-2017   Rezoning certain property
                          
 
TABLE VI:  ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./   Date
Res.    Passed     Description
No.
Council
R. 1-   10-12-1988 Designating an economic revitalization area
1988
22-91   11-25-1991 Declaring the real estate purchased by First Federal Bank to be an economic
                   revitalization area
Council            Designating the economic revitalization area application of West Fork Land
R. 4-   7-12-1999  Development Company, LLC
1999
Council            Designating the economic revitalization area application of Duke Energy Knox,
R. 7-   10-10-2000 LLC, and Harry W. Kerns Farms, Inc.
2000
Council            Designating the economic revitalization area application of Knox County
R. 9-   8-10-2001  Development Corporation
2001
Council
R. 9A-  8-22-2001  Designating an economic revitalization area
2001
Council            Designating the economic revitalization area application of Duke Energy Knox,
R.      10-9-2001  LLC, and The Thomas R. Carolan and Rita A. Carolan Trust and Carol L. Vincent
2001-14
Council            Designating the economic revitalization area application of Duke Energy Knox,
R.      11-13-2001 LLC, and The Thomas R. Carolan and Rita A. Carolan Trust and Carol L. Vincent
2001-15
Council            Continuing the designation of an economic revitalization area application of
R.      5-10-2005  Essex Group, Inc.
2005-8
Council
R.      - -2006    Designating the economic revitalization area application of PSI Energy, Inc.
2006-5
Council
R.      3-3-2006   Designating PSI Energy an economic development area
2006-1
Council
R.      3-14-2006  Designating the economic revitalization area application of PSI Energy, Inc.
2006-4
Council
R.      4-11-2006  Designating PSI Energy an economic development area
2006-2
Council
R.      4-11-2006  Designating the economic revitalization area of PSI Energy, Inc.
2006-8
Council            Designating the economic revitalization area application of Southern Indiana
R.      1-25-2007  Homeownership, Inc.
2007-1
Council            Designating the economic revitalization area application of Southern Indiana
R.      2-13-2007  Homeownership, Inc.
2007-2
Council            Confirming the designation of an economic revitalization area  for Farbest
R.      2-11-2014  Foods, Inc.
2014-3
Council            Reconfirming the designation of an economic revitalization area  for Farbest
R.      6-10-2014  Foods, Inc.
2014-3a
Council            Confirming the designation of an economic revitalization area for JFS
R.      3-11-2014  Milling, Inc.
2014-5a
Council            Confirming the designation of an economic revitalization area for JFS
R.      4-8-2014   Milling, Inc.
2014-5b
Council            Confirming the designation of an economic revitalization area for a tract of
R.      3-14-2017  real estate
2017-5
Council            Confirming the designation of an economic revitalization area for Vincennes
R.      - -2017  Commons Lands
2017-8
                  
 
TABLE VII:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Annexing and defining part of the Upper Prairie
1-1960        11-14-1960  Survey Nos. 16 and 17, Township 3 North, Range 10
                          West
                         
 
TABLE VIII:  FUNDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.     Date Passed Description
R. 10-1975        3-27-1975   Cumulative Bridge Fund
R. 8-1979         6-4-1979    Cumulative Bridge Fund and levy
1-1986            3- -1986    Special non-reverting operating fund
87-5              4-20-1987   County Corrections Fund participation
88-3              4-18-1988   County Corrections Fund participation
1989-1            3-20-1989   County Corrections Fund participation
2-1990            2-5-1990    County Corrections Fund participation
1991-1            1-22-1991   Law Enforcement Fund
4-1991            3-4-1991    County Corrections Fund participation
R. 1991-2         10-21-1991  Drug Free Community Fund
1992-2            2-18-1992   County Corrections Fund participation
1993-1            2-16-1993   County Corrections Fund participation
2-1993            3-15-1993   County Corrections Fund participation
2-1994            2-22-1994   County Corrections Fund participation
1-1996            - -1996     County Corrections Fund participation for 1996-
                              1997
5-1997            - -1997     County Corrections Fund participation for 1997-
                              1998
3-1998            - -1998     County Corrections Fund participation
2-1999            - -1999     County Corrections Fund participation
1-2000            3-9-2000    County Corrections Fund participation for 2000-
                              2001
Joint 00-03       4-17-2000   Court Security Fund
Council R. 2001-3 1-8-2001    Cumulative Capital Development Fund
Council 2002-3    12-9-2002   Distribution C.O.I.T. Fund #102
Council R. 2003-5 2- -2003    C.O.I.T. Fund #101
Council R. 2004-4 1-13-2004   Rainy Day Fund
R. 2004-4         5-3-2004    Cumulative Bridge Fund; decreasing tax rate
2005-22           10-3-2005   Identification Security Protection Fund
2005-26           11-7-2005   Home Monitoring Program Fund
2005-27           11-7-2005   Fund #379 and Fund #380 for Solid Waste
                              Department
2006-1            1-3-2006    Donation Fund for Sheriff's Office
2006-27           8-7-2006    Major Moves Program Fund
Council 2008-11   5-19-2008   Repeal of Jail Maintenance and Operating Account
R. 9-2012         7-16-2012   Cumulative Bridge Fund and levy
Council 1-2013    2-12-2013   Fund #1133, Special Non-reverting Fund for the
                              Receipt of DOC Housing
Council R. 2-2015 2-9-2015    Park Non-Reverting Capital Fund
R. 8-2015         7-20-2015   Cumulative Vincennes Township Fire District Fund
2016-1            2-17-2016   Seized Asset Fund
Council R. 2016-  - -2016  Land Fill Retainage Fund
Council R. 2016-6 12-12-2016  Land Fill Retainage Fund
                             
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
 
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites         Code Section
1-1-1-5            10.04
1-1-1-7            10.12
1-1-1-8            10.06
1-1-4-5            10.05
1-1-5-1            10.11
1-1-6-1            10.08
3-11-8             30.01;
                   34.08
4-21.5             51.07;
                   51.28
4-21.5-1-9         110.02
4-21.5-3 et seq.   112.30
4-21.5-3-1 et seq. 112.30
5-1-4              30.21
5-2-10.1-10        30.23
5-3-1-2            152.241
5-3-1-4            152.241
5-11-1-16          91.07
5-14-1.5           34.01
5-14-1.5-5(d)      35.43
6-1.1-17-3(b)      32.09
6-1.1-22-8(a)(1)   32.09
6-1.1-22-9         32.09
6-1.1-22-9.5       32.09
6-1.1-22-9.7       32.09
6-1.1-22.5-6       32.09
6-1.1-22.5-12      32.09
6-1.1-22.5-18.5    32.09
6-3-2-2.8          110.30
6-9-18-1 et seq.   30.14
6-9-18-5           30.14
                   35.02;
                   35.05;
                   35.23;
10-14-3            35.25;
                   35.45;
                   35.50;
                   35.60
10-14-3-12         35.40;
                   35.42
10-14-3-13         35.40;
                   35.42
10-14-3-16         35.02
10-14-3-17         35.02;
                   35.20
10-14-3-22         35.05;
                   35.45
10-14-3-27         35.26
10-14-3-29         35.40;
                   35.42
10-14-3-34         35.50
10-16-7-9          35.04
10-16-7-10         35.04
11-12-2-2(a)       30.05
11-12-2-2(b)       30.05
13-11-2-105        50.17
13-19              50.02;
                   50.37
13-20              50.02;
                   50.36
13-22              50.36;
                   50.37
14-16-1            70.02
15-15-5-37         91.01
16-11-27-1 et seq. 152.111
16-20-1-10         110.71
16-20-1-26         110.48
16-20-1-27         110.29
16-20-2            112.02
16-20-8-5          110.49
16-20-8-6          110.52
16-37-1-12         112.05
16-42-1            110.01
16-42-1-6          110.20
16-42-1-13         110.48
16-42-2            110.01
16-42-5            110.01
16-42-5-23         110.48
16-42-5-28(g)      110.70
20-18-2-2          30.23
22-9.5             90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.   90.01
22.9.5-2-2         90.02
22-9.5-2-3         90.02
22-9.5-2-4         90.02
22-9.5-2-8         90.02
22-9.5-2-9         90.02
22-9.5-2-11        90.02
22-9.5-2-13        90.02
22-9.5-3           90.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.   90.09
22-9.5-4-8         90.10
22-9.5-5           90.02
22-9.5-5-1         90.03
22-9.5-6           90.02;
                   90.10
22-12-1-16         152.004
23-14-67           30.08
31-16-2            30.09
31-37-1-2          30.09
33-40              30.09
34-28-5            50.21;
                   111.99
34-28-5-4          111.99
34-28-7            130.01
34-28-7-2(b)(2)    130.01
35-31.5-2-75       30.09
35-31.5-2-86       130.01
35-50-3-3          115.99
36-1-3-1           34.02
36-1-3-8(a)(10)    10.99
36-1-16-2          34.03
36-2-2-8(a)        35.43
36-2-4-8           30.17
36-2-5-3(a)        35.21
                   30.07;
                   150.02;
36-7-4             152.002;
                   152.003;
                   152.060
36-7-4 et seq.     152.007
36-7-4-1 et seq.   30.02
36-7-4-100 et seq. 152.007
36-7-4-210         30.16
36-7-4-211(a)      30.16
36-7-4-400 et seq. 152.007
36-7-4-405         92.28
36-7-4-601         152.145
36-7-4-607         152.007
36-7-4-608         152.007
36-7-4-615         152.007
36-7-4-708(d)      150.54
36-7-4-900 et seq. 152.007;
                   152.240
36-7-4-901(b)      152.240
36-7-4-902         152.240
36-7-4-902(g)      152.240
36-7-4-906         152.240
36-7-4-1014        152.168;
                   152.999
36-7-4-1015        152.999
                   152.185;
36-7-4-1103        152.188;
                   152.205
36-7-10.1 et seq.  30.06
36-7-12-7          30.17
36-7-12-9          30.17
36-7-14            30.02
36-7-14-8          30.02
36-7.6-2-1         30.24
36-7.6-2-3         30.24
36-8               30.12
36-8-3-20          30.04
36-8-11 et seq.    93.02—
                   93.05
36-9-27-5(a)(2)    30.18
36-9-30-2          50.35
36-10-3-1 et seq.  30.11
36-10-3-8          30.11
36-10-3-9          30.11
36-10-3-10         30.11
36-10-3-11         30.11
36-10-3-12         30.11
36-10-3-13         30.11
36-10-3-15         30.11
36-10-3-16         30.11
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.        Date Passed Code Section
6-1959R         - -1959     92.02
3-1959R         5-14-1959   TSO II
4-1959R         5-15-1959   TSO II
2-1959R         6-2-1959    TSO I
7-1959R         10-6-1959   Ch. 71, Sch. I
4-1961          - -1961     TSO II
1-1961R         2-7-1961    Ch. 71, Sch. I
2-1961R         5-2-1961    Ch. 71, Sch. VI
3-1961R         5-25-1961   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2-1962R         2-1-1962    TSO IV
3-1962R         2-1-1962    TSO IV
5-1962R         9-5-1962    TSO III
6-1962          9-20-1962   TSO I
2               9-4-1963    TSO II
2-1972R         - -1972     TSO II
3-1972R         - -1972     TSO II
4-1972R         10-2-1972   TSO I
3               5-14-1973   TSO I
21-1975         - -1975     Ch. 71, Sch. I
5-1975          2-17-1975   TSO II
10-1975         3-27-1975   TSO VIII
2-1976          5-3-1976    TSO I
76-5            7-19-1976   Ch. 71, Sch. I
                            70.15;
3-1976          8-2-1976    70.16;
                            70.99
9-1978          - -1978     TSO III
5-1979          - -1979     TSO III
13-1979         - -1979     TSO III
19-1979         - -1979     TSO II
8-1979          6-4-1979    TSO VIII
11-1979         7-9-1979    34.07
12-1979         7-9-1979    TSO IV
22-1979         11-5-1979   TSO I
8-1980          9-8-1980    TSO II
1-1981          2-11-1981   TSO II
2-1981          6-8-1981    Ch. 71, Sch. III
6-1982          3-15-1982   93.01
8-1982          6-28-1982   TSO IV
4-1983          8-1-1983    TSO III
5-1983          9-6-1983    TSO IV
2-1984          1-16-1984   30.05
15-1985         7-15-1985   TSO I
–             6-1-1987    TSO I
7-1987          9-21-1987   TSO II
Council 1-1988  10-12-1988  TSO VI
2-1990          3-19-1990   TSO II
1990-6          10-15-1990  TSO III
1991-2          10-21-1991  TSO VIII
22-91           11-25-1991  TSO VI
1-1992          4-6-1992    TSO II
8-1993          - -1993     TSO I
2-1993          1-11-1993   TSO II
1-1993          3-1-1993    TSO II
5-93            8-2-1993    TSO III
1-1995          - -1995     34.05
3-1995          2- -1995    TSO I
4-1996          5-20-1996   TSO III
3-1997          3-17-1997   TSO II
7-1997          8-4-1997    TSO II
13-1999         - -1999     TSO III
7-1999          6-20-1999   TSO I
Council 4-1999  7-12-1999   TSO VI
12-1999         12-20-1999  TSO III
Council 7-2000  10-10-2000  TSO VI
4-2000          10-16-2000  TSO I
Council 2001-3  1-8-2001    TSO VIII
2001-4          1-8-2001    34.01
Council 2001-5  1-8-2001    TSO I
Council 9-2001  8-10-2001   TSO VI
Council 9A-2001 8-22-2001   TSO VI
Council 2001-14 10-9-2001   TSO VI
7-2001          11-5-2001   TSO I
Council 2001-15 11-13-2001  TSO VI
Council 2003-5  2- -2003    TSO VIII
2003-7          3-17-2003   TSO I
–             6-16-2003   TSO I
2003-9A         7-21-2003   32.35
(Joint)         12-9-2003   34.08
2004-8          - -2004     153.01—
                            153.08
Council 2004-4  1-13-2004   TSO VIII
2004-2          2-23-2004   TSO I
2004-4A         4- -2004    30.03
2004-4          5-3-2004    TSO VIII
2004-5          5-3-2004    TSO I
2004-6A         5-25-2004   TSO I
2004-6B         11-22-2004  TSO I
Council 2005-8  5-10-2005   TSO VI
2005-13A        5-16-2005   TSO I
2005-14A        5-16-2005   TSO V
2005-15A        5-16-2005   TSO III
2005-16A        5-16-2005   TSO III
2005-21         9-26-2005   TSO I
2005-24         10-17-2005  TSO I
Council 2006-5  - -2006     TSO VI
2006-1          1-23-2006   TSO II
Council 2006-1  3-3-2006    TSO VI
Council 2006-4  3-14-2006   TSO VI
Council 2006-2  4-11-2006   TSO VI
Council 2006-8  4-11-2006   TSO VI
Council 2007-1  1-25-2007   TSO VI
Council 2007-6  1-25-2007   32.20
Council 2007-2  2-13-2007   TSO VI
2007-2          3-19-2007   34.09
Council 12-2007 9- -2007    TSO I
2007-5          12-3-2007   TSO I
2008-1          - -2008     30.15
Council 2008-3A 3-11-2008   32.07
5-2008          12-15-2008  153.01—
                            153.08
1-2009          1-26-2009   TSO II
8-2009          - -2009     30.10
09-05           5-4-2009    TSO II
09-6            5-4-2009    Ch. 71, Sch. III
–             5-11-2009   34.09
7-2009          5-11-2009   34.04
1-2010          - -2010     32.35
3-2010          5-17-2010   33.01
2010-4          5-17-2010   TSO II
2010-5          8-16-2010   TSO II
2010-8          12-6-2010   30.02
5-2011          6-6-2011    30.20
Council 2011-1  8-9-2011    30.19
2012-1          1-3-2012    30.21
7-2012          5-7-2012    30.22
9-2012          7-16-2012   TSO VIII
2013-5          2-20-2013   TSO I
2013-6          2-20-2013   TSO I
7-2013          3-20-2013   30.10
8-2013          3-20-2013   30.10
Council 2014-3  2-11-2014   TSO VI
Council 2014-3a 6-10-2014   TSO VI
Council 2014-5A 3-11-2014   TSO VI
Council 2014-5B 4-8-2014    TSO VI
Council 2-2015  2-9-2015    TSO VIII
8-2015          7-20-2015   TSO VIII
15-2015         12-14-2015  30.15
Council 2016- - - -2016     TSO VIII
Council 2016-4  12-19-2016  32.35
Council 2016-6  12-12-2016  TSO VIII
Council 2017-1  1-10-2017   30.15
Council 2017-5  3-14-2014   TSO VI
Council 2017-8  - -         TSO VI
1-2017          2-22-2017   TSO II
2-2017          2-22-2017   TSO II
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed          Code Section
–             - -                  51.06;
                                     51.08
–             - -                  TSO I
1-1960          11-14-1960           TSO VII
1-1971          6-28-1971            30.08
2-1971          6-28-1971            30.07
6-1972          - -1972              TSO V
1-1972          3-20-1972            TSO V
2-1972          8-7-1972             TSO V
1-1973          4-9-1973             TSO V
2-1973          4-9-1973             TSO V
5-1973          7-16-1973            TSO V
6-1973          8-13-1973            TSO V
7-1973          8-24-1973            30.12
8-1973          10-8-1973            TSO V
10-1973         11-13-1973           TSO V
1-1974          4-8-1974             TSO V
4-1974          11-4-1974            TSO I
5-1974          12-9-1974            TSO V
4-1975          - -1975              TSO V
10-1975         - -1975              Ch. 71, Sch. III
5-1975          12-8-1975            TSO V
4-1976          - -1976              Ch. 71, Sch. II;
                                     Ch. 71, Sch. V
                                     94.01—
2-1976          4-12-1976            94.12;
                                     94.99
3-1976          5-10-1976            TSO V
1-1977          2-7-1977             TSO V
2-1977          3-7-1977             TSO V
5-1977          5-9-1977             TSO V
5-1977          6-6-1977             94.10
4-1977          7-25-1977            TSO I
7-1977          11-7-1977            TSO V
8-1977          12-12-1977           TSO V
3-1978          - -1978              TSO V
1-1978          1-19-1978            TSO V
14-1978         9-11-1978            TSO V
5-1978          10-9-1978            Ch. 71, Sch. II
1979-3          - -1979              Ch. 71, Sch. III
79-6            3-11-1979            Ch. 71, Sch. III
1979-7          4-23-1979            70.03;
                                     70.99
1979-8          4-23-1979            92.01;
                                     92.99
1979-9          4-23-1979            Ch. 71, Sch. I
12-1979         5-18-1979            Ch. 71, Sch. I
                                     114.01—
4-1980          - -1980              114.08;
                                     114.99
6-1980          - -1980              TSO V
10-1980         - -1980              TSO V
1-1980          1-7-1980             TSO V
2-1980          2-4-1980             Ch. 71, Sch. III
3-1980          2-19-1980            TSO I
4-1990          5-3-1980             TSO V
5-1980          8-25-1980            Ch. 71, Sch. I
7-1980          9-29-1980            34.06;
                                     34.99
8-1980          9-29-1980            TSO V
12-1981         - -1981              TSO V
13-1981         - -1981              TSO V
1-1981          5-11-1981            TSO V
2-1981          5-11-1981            TSO V
7-1981          6-29-1981            94.09
8-1981          7-6-1981             93.02
9-1981          7-13-1981            TSO V
10-1981         10-19-1981           TSO V
11-1981         10-26-1981           TSO I
8-1982          - -1982              TSO V
9-1982          - -1982              TSO V
10-1982         - -1982              TSO V
1-1982          1-11-1982            30.16
3-1982          3-8-1982             93.03;
                                     93.04
7-1982          4-5-1982             Ch. 71, Sch. III
4-1982          4-12-1982            TSO V
5-1982          4-12-1982            TSO V
7-1982          6-28-1982            93.05
1-1983          - -1983              TSO V
2-1983          - -1983              TSO V
3-1983          - -1983              TSO V
5-1983          - -1983              TSO V
6-1983          - -1983              TSO V
4-1983          3-28-1983            Ch. 71, Sch. I
7-1983          5-31-1983            30.04
8-1983          6-6-1983             Ch. 71, Sch. I
9-1983          10-17-1983           Ch. 71, Sch. I
                                     115.01—
10-1983         12-12-1983           115.08;
                                     115.99
1-1984          - -1984              TSO V
2-1984          3-19-1984            TSO V
3-1984          4-16-1984            TSO V
2-1985          3-18-1985            TSO V
4-1985          5-7-1985             Ch. 71, Sch. I
–             5-13-1985            TSO I
6-1985          6-17-1985            51.29
Council 3-1985  7-8-1985             TSO I
18-1985         11-4-1985            Ch. 71, Sch. III
1-1986          3- -1986             TSO VIII
2               3-17-1986            TSO V
5-1986          5-19-1986            TSO V
6-1986          7-7-1986             30.06
87-4            4-20-1987            Ch. 71, Sch. I
87-5            4-20-1987            TSO VIII
87-6            5-18-1987            Ch. 71, Sch. I
87-8            10-6-1987            Ch. 71, Sch. I
1-1987          11-16-1987           TSO II
10-1987         11-16-1987           TSO III
9-1987          12- -1987            TSO III
9-88            - -1988              TSO IV
2-1988          3-7-1988             TSO III
88-3            4-18-1988            TSO VIII
5-1988          6-20-1988            TSO V
1988-6          6-20-1988            TSO III
1988-7          7-18-1988            TSO III
1988-8          7-18-1988            TSO I
88-10           8-1-1988             Ch. 71, Sch. I
88-11           8-15-1988            Ch. 71, Sch. I
88-12           8-15-1988            Ch. 71, Sch. I
88-13           9-19-1988            Ch. 71, Sch. I
88-16           10-3-1988            70.02
1989-1          3-20-1989            TSO VIII
3-1989          8-7-1989             TSO V
4-1989          12-14-1989           TSO V
2-1990          2-5-1990             TSO VIII
5-1990          6-18-1990            TSO V
7-1990          10-3-1990            TSO V
8-1990          10-3-1990            TSO V
2-1991          - -1991              TSO V
3-1991          - -1991              TSO V
8-1991          - -1991              TSO V
1991-1          1-22-1991            TSO VIII
4-1991          3-4-1991             TSO VIII
5-1991          5-20-1991            50.02
10-1991         10-21-1991           50.01;
                                     50.99
19-1991         12-2-1991            TSO III
8-1992          - -1992              Ch. 71, Sch. I
9-1992          - -1992              Ch. 71, Sch. II
1992-2          2-18-1992            TSO VIII
3-1992          4- -1992             TSO V
1-1992          5-4-1992             TSO V
7-1992          8-3-1992             32.35
1992-6          8-17-1992            TSO V
5-1922          9-21-1992            TSO V
10-1992         11-2-1992            70.01;
                                     70.99
12-92           12-7-1992            TSO V
11-1992         12-21-1992           TSO V
1993-1          2-16-1993            TSO VIII
2-1993          3-15-1993            TSO VIII
3-1993          4-19-1993            TSO V
4-1993          6-7-1993             TSO V
6-1993          9-8-1993             TSO V
                                     50.15—
5-1993          12-20-1993           50.23;
                                     50.99
7-1993          12-20-1993           TSO V
8-1993          1-18-1994            TSO V
1-1994          2- -1994             Ch. 71, Sch. I
2-1994          2-22-1994            TSO VIII
5-1994          3-7-1994             90.01—
                                     90.10
6-1994          5-5-1994             TSO V
7-1994          5-16-1994            TSO V
9-1994          8-1-1994             Ch. 71, Sch. I
10-1994         8-15-1994            Ch. 71, Sch. I
1-1994          9-26-1994            50.35—
                                     50.39
12-1994         12-9-1994            TSO V
2-1995          - -1995              130.01;
                                     130.99
13-1995         - -1995              TSO V
23-1995         - -1995              TSO V
3-1995          3-6-1995             Ch. 71, Sch. III
4-1995          3-6-1995             Ch. 71, Sch. I
6-1995          3-10-1995            92.15—
                                     92.32
1-1995          3-20-1995            TSO V
5-1995          3-20-1995            TSO V
1995-9          4-17-1995            Ch. 71, Sch. I
10-1995         5- -1995             34.02
7-1995          5-15-1995            TSO V
12-1995         6-19-1995            TSO V
14-1995         6-19-1995            32.35
                                     51.20—
15-1995         7-17-1995            51.28;
                                     51.99
1               9-11-1995            TSO III
19-1995         10-2-1995            Ch. 71, Sch. I;
                                     Ch. 71, Sch. II
20-1995         10-12-1995           TSO V
–             10-16-1995           TSO I
16-1995         10-16-1995           TSO V
21-1995         10-16-1995           TSO III
1-1996          - -1996              TSO VIII
12-1996         - -1996              TSO V
2-1996          3-18-1996            TSO V
4-1996          6-3-1996             TSO V
8-1996          8-5-1996             Ch. 71, Sch. III
9-1996          9-4-1996             TSO V
11-1996         11-12-1996           TSO V
3-1997          - -1997              TSO V
4-1997          - -1997              TSO V
5-1997          - -1997              TSO VIII
Council 7-1997  - -1997              30.11
11-1997         - -1997              TSO V
15-1997         - -1997              TSO V
2-1997          3-17-1997            TSO V
9-1997          5-5-1997             TSO V
6-1997          5-19-1997            TSO V
8-1997          5-19-1997            TSO V
10-1997         5-19-1997            Ch. 71, Sch. IV;
                                     TSO II
12-1997         5-30-1997            TSO V
7-1997          6-16-1997            TSO V
14-1997         7-2-1997             TSO V
16-1997         7-7-1997             TSO III
3-1998          - -1998              TSO VIII
12-1998         - -1998              32.21
13-1998         - -1998              TSO V
16-1998         - -1998              32.35
17-1997         1-9-1998             TSO V
–             2-23-1998            TSO I
5-1998          2-23-1998            Ch. 71, Sch. I
1-1998          3-2-1998             TSO V
9-1998          5-14-1998            TSO V
10-1998         5-18-1998            TSO V
11-1998         6-29-1998            32.22
14-1998         11-16-1998           TSO V
15-1998         12-21-1998           30.09
2-1999          - -1999              TSO VIII
13-1999         2-7-1999             TSO V
3-1999          6-8-1999             TSO V
6-1999          7-19-1999            TSO V
7-1999          9-20-1999            TSO V
8-1999          9-20-1999            TSO V
9-1999          9-20-1999            TSO V
10-1999         10-18-1999           TSO V
12-1999         11-15-1999           91.01
11-1999         12-20-1999           TSO II
11-2000         - -2000              TSO V
1-2000          3-9-2000             TSO VIII
2000-7          4-3-2000             32.35
00-03 (joint)   4-17-2000            TSO VIII
10-2000         6-19-2000            TSO III
9-2000          7-10-2000            TSO V
14-2000         9-18-2000            TSO V
6-2001          - -2001              TSO V
15-2000         4-2-2001             TSO III
2-2001          4-16-2001            51.01—
                                     51.09
3-2001          5-7-2001             34.03
Council 8-2001  5-14-2001            34.03
4-2001          7-18-2001            TSO V
5-2001          7-18-2001            TSO V
11-2001         10-15-2001           TSO V
12-2001         11-19-2001           TSO V
13-2001         12-17-2001           TSO V
4-2002          - -2002              TSO V
5-2002          - -2002              TSO V
2-2002          3-1-2002             32.05
3-2002          4- -2002             TSO V
Council 2-2002  6-10-2002            32.06
8-2002          9- -2002             Ch. 71, Sch. I
9-2002          10-21-2002           TSO III
10-2002         10-21-2002           Ch. 71, Sch. I
16-2003         - -2003              32.35
2003-2          2- -2003             95.01;
                                     95.99
2003-10         8-4-2003             TSO I
2003-8A         8-18-2003            TSO III
                                     112.01—
2003-13         10-6-2003            112.31;
                                     112.99
11-2003         10-20-2003           TSO V
Council 10-2003 11-10-2003           30.01
15-2003         11-17-2003           30.14
2004-04         5-17-2004            TSO V
8-2004          6-7-2004             32.35
2004-6          8-16-2004            TSO V
7A-2004         9-20-2004            32.35
8A-2004         9-20-2004            Ch. 71, Sch. II
                                     110.01—
                                     110.04;
                                     110.20—
2004-12         12-20-2004           110.31;
                                     110.45—
                                     110.52;
                                     110.65—
                                     110.71
2004-13         12-20-2004           32.35
Council 2005-7  - -2005              TSO II
4-2005          2-7-2005             32.35
2005-4 (joint)  4-12-2005, 4-18-2005 30.02
10-2005         4-18-2005            TSO I
                                     113.01;
2005-5 (joint)  5-10-2005            113.02;
                                     113.99
–             5-16-2005            51.26
2-2001          5-16-2005            51.06;
                                     51.08
2005-13A        5-16-2005            51.29
Council 2005-3A 9-13-2005            TSO II
2005-22         10-3-2005            TSO VIII
2005-26         11-7-2005            TSO VIII
2005-27         11-7-2005            TSO VIII
2006-1          1-3-2006             TSO VIII
9-2006          3-6-2006             32.35
2006-10         3-6-2006             32.08
12-2006         3-20-2006            TSO III
                                     152.001—
                                     152.007;
                                     152.020—
                                     152.026;
                                     152.040—
                                     152.049;
                                     152.060—
                                     152.064;
                                     152.075—
                                     152.080;
                                     152.095;
                                     152.096;
                                     152.110;
2006-13         4-3-2006             152.111;
                                     152.125—
                                     152.132;
                                     152.145—
                                     152.149;
                                     152.160—
                                     152.170;
                                     152.185—
                                     152.190;
                                     152.205;
                                     152.220—
                                     152.225;
                                     152.240—
                                     152.245;
                                     152.999
                                     150.01—
                                     150.06;
                                     150.20—
                                     150.22;
2006-14         4-3-2006             150.35—
                                     150.38;
                                     150.50—
                                     150.54;
                                     150.65—
                                     150.68
15-2006         7-17-2006            Ch. 71, Sch. II
28-2006         8-7-2006             32.35
2006-27         8-7-2006             TSO VIII
32-2006         9-25-2006            32.04
Council 2-2007  - -2007              TSO II
8-2007          - -2007              32.35
2007-7          - -2007              TSO V
2007-12         - -2007              TSO V
2-2008          3-11-2007            TSO V
Council 2-2008  3-11-2007            TSO II
1-2007          3-19-2007            Ch. 71, Sch. II
2-2007          4-16-2007            92.45—
                                     92.56
2007-6          7-17-2007            TSO III
2007-13         12-17-2007           110.29
14-2008         - -2008              TSO V
2008-9          - -2008              TSO V
2007-10         1-7-2008             TSO V
2007-11         1-7-2008             TSO V
2-2008          1-22-2008            TSO IV
3-2008          3-10-2008            TSO V
2008-7          3-17-2008            Ch. 71, Sch. III
8-2008          4-2-2008             TSO V
2008-6          5-5-2008             TSO III
2008-10         5-19-2008            TSO IV
Council 2008-11 5-19-2008            TSO VIII
Council 2009-   - -2009              32.03
2009-1          - -2009              Ch. 71, Sch. I
Council 2009-2  - -2009              32.02
Council 2009-4  - -2009              32.01
04-2009         - -2009              Ch. 71, Sch. III
09-03           9-21-2009            TSO IV
14-2007         12-17-2009           92.03
–             3-2-2010             TSO I
2010-1          4-5-2010             Ch. 71, Sch. I
2010-2          4-19-2010            Ch. 71, Sch. II
–             9-7-2010             TSO I
                                     111.01;
2010-3          9-7-2010             111.02;
                                     111.99
1-2011          2-7-2011             92.03
Council 2011-1  2-8-2011             30.17
2-2011          2-23-2011            91.01—
                                     91.09
2011-3          4-4-2011             TSO III
2011-5          6-6-2011             130.01
7-2011          6-20-2011            30.18
–             9-6-2011             92.49
2011-8          10- -2011            110.29
2012-1          3-19-2012            TSO V
2-2012          4-16-2012            Adopting Ordinance
5-2012          6-4-2012             Ch. 71, Sch. I
                                     152.001—
                                     152.007;
                                     152.020—
                                     152.027;
                                     152.040—
                                     152.049;
                                     152.060—
                                     152.064;
                                     152.075—
                                     152.080;
                                     152.095;
                                     152.096;
                                     152.110;
2012-9          7-2-2012             152.111;
                                     152.125—
                                     152.132;
                                     152.145—
                                     152.149;
                                     152.160—
                                     152.170;
                                     152.185—
                                     152.190;
                                     152.205;
                                     152.220—
                                     152.225;
                                     152.240—
                                     152.245;
                                     152.999
                                     150.01—
                                     150.06;
                                     150.20—
                                     150.22;
2012-10         7-2-2012             150.35—
                                     150.38;
                                     150.50—
                                     150.54;
                                     150.65—
                                     150.68
2012-12         9-5-2012             34.10
10-2013         - -2013              31.01
Council 1-2013  2-12-2013            TSO VIII
1-2013          3-18-2013            TSO V
                                     51.23—
2013-2          3-18-2013            51.28;
                                     51.99
2013-3          3-20-2013            32.09
4-2013          3-20-2013            34.11
5-2013          4-15-2013            TSO III
6-2013          4-15-2013            31.01
7-2013          5-3-2013             31.02
8-2013          5-20-2013            92.03
9-2013          6-17-2013            Ch. 71, Sch. III
11-2013         7-15-2013            30.23
13-2013         7-15-2013            TSO III
2013-12         8-19-2013            TSO V
14-2013         8-19-2013            TSO III
15-2013         8-19-2013            30.15
2013-17         10-21-2013           TSO V
1-2014 (joint)  1-22-2014, 2-11-2014 TSO II
2014-2          3-17-2014            TSO V
2014-4          4-21-2014            TSO V
                                     35.01—
                                     35.05;
                                     35.20—
2014-5          4-21-2014            35.30;
                                     35.40—
                                     35.50;
                                     35.60;
                                     35.99
                                     151.01—
                                     151.06;
                                     151.21—
                                     151.27;
8-2014          7-21-2014            151.31—
                                     151.38;
                                     151.41—
                                     151.45;
                                     151.51;
                                     151.52
Council 2014-6  7-21-2014            TSO V
9-2014          10-20-2014           110.29
10-2014         10-20-2014           32.35
11-2014         10-20-2014           51.29
12-2014         11-17-2014           TSO III
2015-1          3-16-2015            TSO V
2015-2          - -                  30.24
Council 2015-2  3-16-2015            TSO V
3-2015          3-16-2015            TSO III
4-2015          3-16-2015            TSO II
2015-10         10-19-2015           TSO IV
2015-12         10-19-2015           90.02
2016-1          2-17-2016            TSO VIII
Council 2-2016  5-16-2016            TSO III
3-2016          6-20-2016            TSO IV
2016-5          6-20-2016            TSO III
2016-6          7-18-2016            32.10
2016-4          7-18-2016            TSO V
2016-7          8-15-2016            TSO V
2016-8          8-15-2016            TSO V
2017-2          4-17-2017            TSO V
                                    
 
