LAGRANGE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2020-10-5(C), passed 10-6-2020
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “2020 LaGrange Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate  meaning
in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the town, except where the context
clearly indicates otherwise, now known as the TOWN COUNCIL or COUNCIL.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk and Fiscal Officer of the town.
      CODE. The 2020 LaGrange Town Code.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of LaGrange, Indiana, formally known as the
BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
      COUNTY. The County of LaGrange, Indiana.
      ET SEQ. The Latin phrase meaning “and following”.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      INDIANA CODE or I.C. The state law of Indiana.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      MUST. The act referred to is mandatory.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation of declaration in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words
“swears” and “sworn” shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed”.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety and/or any tenant
of the whole or a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every kind of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street or highway, sideway, park cemetery, school yard
or open space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream.
      REAL PROPERTY. Include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians excluding parkways.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STREET. Embraces streets, avenue, boulevards, roads, alleys, viaducts and
all other public highways in the town.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Apply to a building or land and shall include any
person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupied the whole or a part
of such building or land, either alone or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of LaGrange, Indiana, or the area within the territorial
limits of the Town of LaGrange, Indiana, and such territory, if any, outside
the town over which the town has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional or statutory provision.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.
         (a)   Include printing, lithographing or other modes of representing
words and letters.
         (b)   Where the written signature of a person is required, the terms
mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)  (2014 Code, § A1.2(2))
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then, the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 2014 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(2014 Code, §    
)”.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
34.   VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   PURCHASING POLICIES AND RULES
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Council districts
   
30.02   Bylaws
§ 30.01  COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   The town shall be divided into five districts, known as Ward 1, Ward 2, Ward
3, Ward 4 and Ward 5.
   (A)   Ward 1 shall encompass an area described as follows: beginning at the
point of intersection of the western corporate limits and an imaginary line
extended due west from the western end of Factory Street; then north along the
western corporate limits to County Road 200, the northern corporate limits;
then east along County Road 200 to the eastern corporate limits, then south
along the eastern corporate limits to a point at the eastern end of an
imaginary line extended due east from the eastern end of Factory Street; then
west along said line, Factory Street and an imaginary line extended from the
western end thereof to the point of beginning.
   (B)   Ward 2 shall encompass an area described as follows: beginning at a
point at the southwest corner of Ward 1, then south along the western corporate
limits to a point at the western end of an imaginary line extended due west
from the western end of Spring Street; then east along said line, Spring Street
and an imaginary line extended due east from the eastern end thereof to the
eastern corporate limits, then north along the eastern corporate limits to the
southeast corner of Ward 1; then west along the southern boundary of Ward 1 to
the point of beginning.
   (C)   Ward 3 shall encompass an area described as follows: beginning at the
southwest corner of Ward 2, then south along the western corporate limits to a
point at the western end of an imaginary line extended due west from the
western end of Wayne Street Extended; then east along said line, Wayne Street
Extended, Wayne Street and an imaginary line extended due east from the eastern
end of Wayne Street to the eastern corporate limits; then north to the
southeast corner of Ward 2; then west along the southern boundary of Ward 2 to
the point of beginning.
   (D)   Ward 4 shall encompass an area described as follows: beginning on the
southwest corner of Ward 3; then south along the western corporate limits to
the west end of a line extended due west from the western end of Church Street;
then east along said line and Church Street to the western end of Clay Street
and continuing east on Clay Street and an imaginary line extended due east from
the eastern end of Clay Street to eastern corporate limits; then north along
the eastern corporate limits to southeast corner of Ward 3; then west along the
southern boundary of Ward 3 to the point of beginning.
   (E)   Ward 5 shall encompass an area described as follows: beginning at the
southwest corner of Ward 4, then south along the western corporate limits; then
east along the southern corporate limits; then north along the eastern
corporate limits to the southern boundary of Ward 4; then west along said
boundary of Ward 4 to the point of beginning.
(2014 Code, § A1.4)
§ 30.02  BYLAWS.
   (A)   The President of the Council shall preside at all meetings when
present and, in his or her absence, the Council shall appoint one of its
members present President Pro Tem who shall sign the proceedings of the
previous meeting when the same shall have been read and approved by the
Council.
(2014 Code, § A1.3(1))
   (B)   A majority of the Council of said incorporated town shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of such business, as may come before them.
(2014 Code, § A1.3(2))
   (C)   Upon all questions before the Council, the voice thereof shall be
given affirmatively or negatively viva voce, except the election of which shall
be by ballot.
(2014 Code, § A1.3(3))
   (D)   The Council shall meet regularly on the first and third Monday of each
month; said regular meetings shall be at 7:00 p.m.
(2014 Code, § A1.3(4))
   (E)   The President or any three of the Council members may call a special
meeting when the exigencies of the case may require.
(2014 Code, § A1.3(5))
   (F)   No business shall be transacted at any called meeting; except that,
for which it was called and the Clerk-Treasurer of said meeting shall enter
upon the record the object for which said meeting was called before recording
any of the doings thereof.
(2014 Code, § A1.3(6))
   (G)   The order of business before said Council shall be printed upon an
agenda.
(2014 Code, § A1.3(7))
   (H)   All ordinances, bylaws and resolutions made by the Council members of
said incorporated town shall be in force from and after their promulgation by
majority vote of the Council members.
(2014 Code, § A1.3(8))
   (I)   The Council may repeal, alter or amend any of its bylaws when two-
thirds of the Council shall agree thereto at any regular meeting of said
Council.
(2014 Code, § A1.3(9))
   (J)   All laws, rules or ordinances heretofore adopted or passed by any
Council of said incorporated town contravening the provisions of these bylaws
are hereby repealed.
(2014 Code, § A1.3(10))
CHAPTER 31:  OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Americans with Disabilities Act; grievance procedure
   
31.02   Conflict of interest; nepotism
   
31.03   Advance payment of certain claims
   
31.04   Use of convention method for nominations
   
31.05   Employee handbook; salaries
   
31.06   Civil rights adoption
   
31.07   Open meetings
   
31.08   Executive sessions
   
31.09   Public records requests
Officers and Organizations
   
31.20   Appointments
   
31.21   Town Manager
   
31.22   Town Marshal
   
31.23   Area Planning Department
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT; GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Town Council is responsible for the overall compliance with the
ADA.
(2014 Code, § A2.4(1))
   (B)   The Town Manager is designated as the ADA Coordinator for the town and
is responsible for the town’s compliance with the ADA.
(2014 Code, § A2.4(2))
   (C)   In compliance with federal and state laws as set forth above, the Town
Council has posted the required information regarding the ADA Coordinator,
notice under the ADA and town’s Grievance Procedure under the ADA on its
website and at such other locations as may be determined from time to time.
(2014 Code, § A2.4(3))
   (D)   The town does hereby adopt the recommendation and time frames for
compliance established at the public hearing, and a copy of same shall be
maintained in the office of the Clerk- Treasurer/ Treasurer.
(2014 Code, § A2.4(4))
   (E)   (1)   The town’s grievance procedure and separate notice under the
Americans with Disabilities Act are hereby established effective immediately
upon the passage of this section. The town adopts the 2010 Americans with
Disabilities Act Standards for Accessible Design and the 2005 Guidelines for
Accessible Public Rights-of-Way, including any future updates to either
document enforceable by the U.S. Department of Justice or other federal agency
with jurisdiction.
      (2)   The town shall have on file for public inspection the grievance
procedure and notice in Town Hall and shall post them on the town’s website.
That additionally anyone shall be provided copies of the notice and grievance
procedure free of charge at that person’s request, including copies in
alternate formats.
(2014 Code, § A2.4(5))
§ 31.02  CONFLICT OF INTEREST; NEPOTISM.
   (A)   No employee of the town shall be a member of the immediate family and/
or reside in the household of any elected official of the town.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(1))
   (B)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to supplement its
policy of conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and
in contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
7-1-2012 known, as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(2))
   (C)   On 7-1-2012, the town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with a
unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “contracting with
a unit by a relative policy”) and implementation will begin.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(3))
   (D)   The town’s nepotism policy is hereby established effective 7-1-2012 by
adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and including
all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to
time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein, with the
further stipulation that no supervisory employee of the town shall be a member
of the immediate family or reside in the household with any elected official of
the town. In addition, a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2, Nepotism, in effect on July 1
is attached hereto.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(4))
   (E)   The town’s contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective 7-1-2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provisions
of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments thereto
which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully
set out herein. In addition, a copy of the I.C. 36-1-21, Nepotism, in effect on
July 1 is attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(5))
   (F)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(6))
   (G)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and, therefore, without such authority by the majority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(7))
   (H)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation,
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority, the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(8))
   (I)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(9))
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of either
the nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(10))
   (K)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of either the nepotism policy or
the contracting with unit by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed
by law.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(11))
   (L)   (1)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
         (b)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
         (c)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section;
or
         (d)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
      (2)   Upon any of taking these actions, these policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(12))
   (M)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, effective
7-1-2012 are annexed hereto.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(13))
   (N)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the town for
public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(2014 Code, § A2.5(14))
§ 31.03  ADVANCE PAYMENT OF CERTAIN CLAIMS.
   (A)   Authority for advanced payment of claims. The Clerk-Treasurer of the
town shall have the authority to make claim payments in advance of approval
from the Town Council for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   License fees or permit fees;
      (2)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (3)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (4)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (5)   Payroll;
      (6)   State, federal or county taxes; and
      (7)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
   (B)   Expenses described in ordinance. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall
additionally have the authority to make claim payments in advance of approval
from the Town Council for the following expenses:
      (1)   Credit card payments; and
      (2)   Line of credit payments.
   (C)   Documentation of claims. The Clerk- Treasurer shall ensure that each
payment of expenses paid in advance of Town Council approval shall be supported
by a fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Town Council review. The Town Council shall review and allow a claim
at its next regular or special meeting following such claim’s pre-approved
payment.
(Ord. 2019-9-3(c), passed 9-3-2019)
§ 31.04  USE OF CONVENTION METHOD FOR NOMINATIONS.
   (A)   The town confirms that, pursuant to I.C. 3-8-5-2(B), it has not
adopted an ordinance pursuant to I.C. 3-8-5-2(D).
   (B)   The town specifically has decided to utilize the convention method as
described in I.C. 3-8-5-1 et seq., and if and when more than one candidate from
the same political party files a declaration of candidacy for the same office,
said party shall conduct a town convention as provided more fully in I.C. 3-8-
5-10.
   (C)   This section is created for the sole purpose of clarifying the
specific state statutes and procedures utilized by said town in resolving
multi-candidate declarations for the same political office.
(Ord. 2019-03-04(A), passed - -2019)
§ 31.05  EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK; SALARIES.
   The Employee Handbook and salary list will be amended from time to time by
Town Council.
(Ord. 2018.10.15, passed 10-15-2018)
§ 31.06  CIVIL RIGHTS ADOPTION.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the Title VI, Non-Discrimination Plan.
(Res. 2018-04-16, passed 4-16-2018)
§ 31.07  OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.08  EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing.  As used in this clause,
"litigation" includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding
under federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   The purchase or lease of real property by the Town Council up
to the time a contract or option to purchase or lease is executed by the
parties; or
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design, and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans, and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The Indiana Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)   The Office of Tourism Development;
         (c)   The Indiana Finance Authority;
         (d)   The ports of Indiana;
         (e)   An Economic Development Commission;
         (f)   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
         (g)   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in Indiana, the retention or expansion of
Indiana business, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in Indiana;
or
         (h)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual's alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual's status as
an employee, a student, or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student's
abilities, past performance, behavior, and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees. 
This division does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation, or
benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration.  An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees.  Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials; and
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits, or registrations under I.C. Title 25.
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate, or respond to the threat of terrorism.
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) of this section. The Town Council shall
certify by a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no
subject matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject
matter specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute.  A meeting may
not be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.09  PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-3, the form with which to request public
records, which may be amended from time to time by the Town Council, must be
fully completed by all individuals or entities requesting access to public
records from the town pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-3, the town shall require all individuals or
entities requesting access to public records pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3 et seq. to
make copies of the records in person, on the town's equipment. When a request
for access to public records is granted, the town will designate the
appropriate location where the requester will be able to access and/or make
copies of responsive records. The appropriate location will be selected
pursuant to the town department in control of the records at issue. If the town
lacks the appropriate equipment for copying the responsive records, the
requester may use his, her, or its own equipment to make copies, in person at
the location designated by the town. The town further reserves the right, at
its sole discretion, to utilize email and/or fax to fulfill small requests for
public records available electronically.
 
   (C)   Costs, as provided in I.C. 5-14-3-8, shall be reimbursed to the town
by requester at the time of delivery of the records, or if the costs exceed
$50, payment shall be made in advance.
(Ord. 2020-10-5(C), passed 10-6-2020)
OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.20  APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may employ such persons to effectively carry out the
needs and services of the town.
(2014 Code, § A2.1(1))
   (B)   (1)   Positions which the Town Council may appoint include, but shall
not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Town Manager;
         (b)   Town Attorney;
         (c)   Town Engineer;
         (d)   Town Marshal;
         (e)   Volunteer Fire Chief;
         (f)   Water Superintendent;
         (g)   Parks Department Supervisor;
         (h)   Sewer Superintendent;
         (i)   Ordinance Enforcement Officer; and
         (j)   Other officers and employees deemed necessary.
      (2)   Duties shall be set forth for each position by the Town Council and
applicable state law.
(2014 Code, § A2.1(2))
§ 31.21  TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Employment, compensation and qualifications.
      (1)   The Town Council may employ a town executive to be known as a Town
Manager. The Town Council shall fix compensation, benefits and terms of
employment; provided only that, the duration of employment shall be at the
pleasure of the Council or for a definite tenure not to exceed the term in
office of the appointing Town Council.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall be the administrative head of the town
government and be employed solely with regard to merit and on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications.
      (3)   The Town Manager shall be or become a resident of the town.
(2014 Code, § A2.2(1))
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Town Manager shall be responsible to the Town Council for the
proper administration of all of the affairs and administrative duties of the
town which the Town Council has the authority to control.
      (2)   Unless a written order or ordinance of the Town Council provides
otherwise, the Town Manager shall:
         (a)   Attend the meetings of the Town Council, the Economic
Development Commission and all other boards deemed by the Town Council to be
necessary for the efficient operation and planning of the town and such other
meetings as requested or required by the Town Council;
         (b)   Hire all town employees to fill positions authorized by the Town
Council in accordance with pay schedule standards fixed by the Town Council or
be statute;
         (c)   Except for Town Marshal Department personnel, and subject to the
final approval of the Town Council, suspend, supervise, direct, remove or
transfer town employee;
         (d)   Administer the execution of all orders, ordinances and
resolutions of the town and Town Council, and see to the enforcement of laws of
the state that are required to be enforced through the Town Council or other
town officials, subject to the control of the Town Council;
         (e)   Assist the Clerk-Treasurer in preparing budget estimates and
submit them to the Town Council when required;
         (f)   Recommend to the Town Council adoption of such measures which
are deemed necessary or useful to the health, safety and welfare of the
community or the improvement of administration or delivery of services;
         (g)   Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies and equipment
in accordance with town ordinances and state statute;
         (h)   Receive service of summons on behalf of the town;
         (i)   Execute contract on behalf of the town for materials, supplies,
services or improvements, after completion of the appropriation, notice and
competitive bidding required by statute;
         (j)   Appoint and remove heads of departments, subject to the advise,
consent and final authority of the Town Council;
         (k)   Present to the Council the monthly reports of each of the town
departments for which he or she is responsible; and
         (l)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Town
Council, not inconsistent with ordinance, statute or state law.
(2014 Code, § A2.2(2))
   (C)   Police disciplinary matters. The Town Manager may not serve as a
member of any body that hears disciplinary charges against a member of the Town
Marshal Department.
(2014 Code, § A2.2(3))
   (D)   Bond. The Town Manager must be bonded for the faithful performance of
his or her duties pursuant to I.C. 5-4-1 and I.C. 36-5-5-5.
(2014 Code, § A2.2(4))
   (E)   Acting Town Manager. The Town Council may appoint a qualified person
to perform the duties of Town Manager whenever he or she is absent or unable to
perform the duties of Town Manager.
(2014 Code, § A2.2(5))
   (F)   Issuance of warrants or execution of bonds. The Town Council may not
authorize the Manager to issue or execute bonds, notes, warrants of the town.
(2014 Code, § A2.2(6))
   (G)   Outside employment. During his or her term of employment, the Town
Manager shall not engage in any other business activity without the express
written approval of the Town Council.
(2014 Code, § A2.2(7))
   (H)   Termination. The employment of the Town Manager may be terminated in
accordance with the terms provided for in the Town Manager’s agreement of
employment.
(2014 Code, § A2.2(8))
§ 31.22  TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   There is hereby created, adopted and pursuant to the laws of the state
retroactively put into place the office of the Town Marshal.
(2014 Code, § A2.3(1))
   (B)   (1)   The Town Marshal is the Chief Police officer and shall have all
the duties and powers as are defined by I.C. 36-5-7-4 for Town Marshals, as it
may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   The Town Council may authorize the appointment of Deputy Marshals
pursuant to I.C. 36-5-7-6, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Town Marshals shall further be authorized to deputize individuals
pursuant to the laws of the state.
      (4)   The Town Marshal and Deputy Marshals shall be designated as the
town’s ordinance enforcement officers.
(2014 Code, § A2.3(2))
   (C)   The Town Council does hereby further approve and create a LaGrange
Town Reserve, such reserve officers answering to the Town Marshal.
(2014 Code, § A2.3(3))
   (D)   (1)   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Marshal and shall fix his
or her compensation.
      (2)   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council and is
subject to the minimum basic training requirement.
      (3)   The budget of the Town Marshal shall be approved by the Town
Council and all employment selections of the Town Marshal shall first be
approved by the Town Council.
(2014 Code, § A2.3(4))
§ 31.23  AREA PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It is the declared intention of the Town Council to avail itself of
the provisions of Ch. 138, Acts of 1957, as amended, State General Assembly
(see I.C. 36-7-4), and to participate in the operation of the County Planning
and Zoning Commission and boards as established by said county ordinances
(zoning and subdivision control) as amended from time to time.
(2014 Code, § E5.1(1))
   (B)   The town does hereby establish itself as a participating member of the
County Plan Commission, and hereby adopts and includes herein by reference the
County Zoning Ordinances and Subdivision Control Ordinance and all amendments,
rules and regulations established pursuant thereto.
(2014 Code, § E5.1(2))
CHAPTER 32:  ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Economic Development Commission
Economic Revitalization Areas
   
32.15   Procedure set up
   
32.16   Application; filing fee
   
32.17   Receipt of application
   
32.18   Declaratory resolution; numbering system
   
32.19   Designation of areas
   
32.20   Town authority
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   All prior ordinances of the town as they conflict with the provisions
of this chapter are hereby amended, repealed, or superseded by this section
creating a Town Department of Economic Development, which department shall have
all powers made available to a Department of Economic Development under I.C.
36-7-12-1 et seq., as same is now written, or as same may in the future be
amended to provide for.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(1))
   (B)   The Town Council does hereby find that a need exists and there shall
be created an Economic Development Department of the town for the purpose of
creating or retaining opportunities for gainful employment, creating business
opportunities, infrastructure and pollution controls to serve a public purpose
and will be of benefit to the health or general welfare of the town.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(2))
   (C)   I.C. 36-7-12-4 establishes that once the fiscal body finds it
necessary to finance economic development or pollution control facilities under
this section and further necessary to establish a Department of Economic
Development Commission as was previously done, that said department is to be
controlled by a commission, the name of which shall be the town’s Economic
Development Commission, which Commission and its members shall have all powers
provided to it pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq., as same is now written, or
may be in the future provided for.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(3))
   (D)   The Economic Development Department shall be administered as provided
at I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq. by the town’s Economic Development Commission which
is hereby created, the membership of which shall be appointed according to
state law and which shall exercise any and all powers provided by I.C. 36-7-12-
1 et seq. in the furtherance of their duties consistent herewith.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(4))
   (E)   Upon passage and promulgation of the provisions of this section
according to law, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall promptly notify all executives
and fiscal bodies required to make selections and nominations for membership of
the Economic Development Commission, notifying said executive or fiscal body
that they should respond to said request within 15 days of receiving such
notice.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(5))
   (F)   The terms of membership and reappointments shall be governed by I.C.
36-7-12-9 et seq. as same shall from time to time be amended. The town’s
Department of Economic Development and the town’s Economic Development
Commission shall have all powers permitted by I.C. 36-7-12-4, including, but
not in any way limiting, such powers provided at I.C. 36-7-12-17, I.C. 36-7-12-
18, I.C. 36-7-12-18.5, I.C. 36-7-12-19, I.C. 36-7-12-20, I.C. 36-7-12-21, as
well as any and all other powers which now exist, or may be added, to the state
law as found at I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(6))
ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
§ 32.15  PROCEDURE SET UP.
   The Town Council does hereby establish a procedure for designation of areas
by interested persons as economic revitalization areas, as defined by I.C. 6-
1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
(2014 Code, § E4.1)
§ 32.16  APPLICATION; FILING FEE.
   (A)   A person who desires designation of an area as an economic
revitalization area, as defined by I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1, shall file an application
at the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and to pay a filing fee of $500,
which fee may be waived upon application to the Town Council; provided,
however, that, no filing fee shall be required for an owner-occupied, single-
family project.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(1))
   (B)   The application shall be on a form provided by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. The form shall require the applicant to provide, among other things,
either:
      (1)   Maps and plats that identify the proposed economic revitalization
area; or
      (2)   A simplified description of the boundaries of the proposed economic
revitalization area describing its location in relation to public ways, streams
or otherwise.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(2))
§ 32.17  RECEIPT OF APPLICATION.
   On receipt of such application, the Town Manager shall:
   (A)   Note the date of filing on the application and record the date in the
records in the town; and
   (B)   Forward the petition to the Town Attorney with a request for the
preparation of a declaratory resolution for the consideration by the Town
Council, designating the area described in the petition as an economic
revitalization area.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(3))
§ 32.18  DECLARATORY RESOLUTION; NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Town Attorney shall prepare a declaratory resolution and forward
the application and said resolution to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and shall
include the same in the new business portion of the agenda of the Town Council
meeting at its next regular meeting.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(4))
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall establish and apply to such application
and resolution, a system of numbering corresponding to that adopted by said
town.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(5))
   (C)   Upon introduction of the declaratory resolution, the same shall be
eligible for passage on the same date as introduced, subject to the following
procedure:
      (1)   Upon adoption of the resolution, the resolution shall be filed with
the County Assessor and/or Auditor, pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.;
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall publish notice in accordance with
I.C. 5-3-1 of the adoption and substance of the resolution and setting the
resolution for public hearing;
      (3)   The Town Council shall hold a public hearing provided for herein,
the Council shall take final action on such declaratory resolution by either
confirming, modifying and confirming or rescinding said resolution;
      (4)   The following standards shall be applicable, in the sole discretion
of the Town Council to the deductions in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1 et seq.:
         (a)   Real property: industrial zoned areas only; and
         (b)   New manufacturing equipment situated or to be situated upon
industrial zoned real property and meeting the definition set forth in I.C. 6-
1.1-12.1-1(3)(B).
(2014 Code, § E4.1(6))
§ 32.19  DESIGNATION OF AREAS.
   (A)   The Town Council does hereby designate those areas on the attached map
as economic revitalization areas, and said map showing said areas is on file at
the office of the County Assessor for public inspection.
   (B)   Said may has been certified by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and is
subject to amendment, confirmation, rescission or remonstrance by any person,
in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(7))
§ 32.20  TOWN AUTHORITY.
   The town has all of the powers for designating economic revitalization areas
contained in I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.
(2014 Code, § E4.1(8))
CHAPTER 33:  PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Town policies
   
33.02   Police Department policies
§ 33.01  TOWN POLICIES.
   The town’s personnel policies, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full. Two copies
of the material are on file in the office of the clerk for the legislative body
for public inspection.
(2014 Code, § B1.1)  (Ord. 2010-4-19-A, passed 5-3-2010; Ord. 2015-05-18,
passed 5-18-2015)
§ 33.02  POLICE DEPARTMENT POLICIES.
   The Police Department’s personnel policies, and any and all amendments, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full. Two
copies of the material are on file in the office of the clerk for the
legislative body for public inspection.
(2014 Code, § B2.1)
CHAPTER 34:  VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Creation
   
34.02   Violations Clerk
   
34.03   Agents and authority
   
34.04   Jurisdiction
   
34.05   Fees; civil penalty schedule
   
34.06   Court hearing; attorneys’ fees
§ 34.01  CREATION.
   There shall be created an Ordinance Violations Bureau, pursuant to I.C. 33-
36-2-1, as amended, for the town.
(2014 Code, § A5.1(1))
§ 34.02  VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the Violations
Clerk, who administers the Bureau.
(2014 Code, § A5.1(2))
§ 34.03  AGENTS AND AUTHORITY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer and his or her staff, as his or her agents, shall accept
written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations and payment of
civil penalties in the amount and for the violation as provided below.
(2014 Code, § A5.1(3))
§ 34.04  JURISDICTION.
   The following provisions of the code shall be subject to the jurisdiction of
the Ordinance Violation Bureau and the first violations within a calendar year
of provisions shall be subject to the civil penalty set forth, plus all
necessary attorneys’ fees and costs associated with collection. The second
admission or judgment of a violation of the same ordinance or code provision
within a calendar year may be subject to double the penalty set forth below as
the total civil penalty, plus all necessary attorneys’ fees and costs
associated with collection:
Backflow violation              Class A infraction   $250
Curfew violation                Class C infraction   $50
Dangerous and vicious animals   Class A infraction   $100
Debris violation                Class C infraction   $250
Dog leash violation             Class C infraction   $50
Excavation violation            Class A infraction   $250
Fireworks violation             Class A infraction   $100
Golf cart violation             Class A infraction   $100
House number violation          Class D infraction   $25
Engine brake violation          Class C infraction   $100
Mobile dwelling violation       Class C infraction   $50
Movement violation              Class C infraction   $50
No parking violation            Class C-A infraction $50 - $100
Off-premises fuel violation     Class A infraction   $100
One-way violation               Class C infraction   $50
Open burning violation          Class A infraction   $100
Open container                  Class A infraction   $100
Overnight parking violation     Class C-A infraction $50 - $100
Park curfew violation           Class C infraction   $50
Parking violation               Class C-A infraction $50 - $100
Permit/license violation        Class C infraction   $250
Prohibited alcohol in park      Class A infraction   $100
Public nuisance violation       Class A infraction   $100 - $500
School/hospital speed violation Class B infraction   $75
Sidewalk violation              Class A infraction   $100
Skateboard violation            Class D-B infraction $25 - $75
Speed violation                 Class C infraction   $50
Snow emergency violation        Class C infraction   $50
Sound disturbance               Class C-A infraction $100 - $250
Stop sign violation             Class C infraction   $50
Storage violation               Class B infraction   $75
Synthetic cannabinoid           Civil fine           $1,000 - $2,500
Trash receptacle violation      Class C infraction   $50
Waste accumulation              Class C infraction   $250
Water runoff violation          Class A infraction   $100
Weapon discharge violation      Class C-A infraction $50 - $100
Yard/garage sale violation      Class C infraction   $50
 
(2014 Code, § A5.1(4))
§ 34.05  FEES; CIVIL PENALTY SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The provisions of the code and the ordinances referred to herein are
hereby amended to provide and declare the civil penalty scheduled with the said
ordinance or code provision to be the specific civil penalty for the violation
of said ordinance or code provision.
(2014 Code, § A5.1(5))
   (B)   Additional fees associated with all civil penalties for ordinance
violations as set forth in §
34.04 of this chapter include all necessary attorneys’ fees associated with
enforcement of any ordinance and any and all costs incurred by the town in
collecting.
(2014 Code, § A5.1(6))
§ 34.06  COURT HEARING; ATTORNEYS’ FEES.
   If any party should demand or require a court hearing on any ordinance
violation and if the town should incur attorneys’ fees in the enforcement of
such ordinance violation, any person found to have committed any such ordinance
violation shall reimburse the town its reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred in
the enforcement of such ordinance in addition to court costs, any fine and/or
penalty and any other costs associated with collection.
(2014 Code, § A5.1(8))
CHAPTER 35:  PURCHASING POLICIES AND RULES
Section
Purchasing Agency
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Powers and duties
   
35.03   Purchasing agents
Purchasing Policies
   
35.15   Publication of notices
   
35.16   Receiving offers
   
35.17   Small purchases
   
35.18   Requests for proposals
   
35.19   Special purchasing methods
   
35.20   Other procedures governing purchases
   
35.21   Restriction of purchases
Purchasing Rules
   
35.35   Protection of offer; status as public records
   
35.36   Discussions with offerors responding to request for proposals
   
35.37   Delay of opening offers
   
35.38   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
35.39   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies
   
35.40   Modification and termination of contracts
   
35.41   Supplies manufactured in the United States
PURCHASING AGENCY
§ 35.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office (the “Purchasing Agency”) is established as the
purchasing agency for the town.
(2014 Code, § A3.1(1))
§ 35.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 36-5-6-6, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinances
adopted by the Council and policies adopted by the purchasing agency.
(2014 Code, § A3.1(2))
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, department or other
establishment of the town.
(2014 Code, § A3.1(3))
§ 35.03  PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   The purchasing agency may designate in writing any employee of the
town as a purchasing agent.
(2014 Code, § A3.1(4))
   (B)   (1)   The Department of the Town Clerk-Treasurer having been
appointment purchasing agency for the town does hereby appoint the following
purchasing agents:
         (a)   Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Town Manager;
         (c)   Town Marshal;
         (d)   Street Superintendent;
         (e)   Sewer Superintendent; and
         (f)   Water/Utility Superintendent.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer as head of the purchasing agency reserves the
right to amend or modify this list of purchasing agents as the need shall from
time to time arise.
(2014 Code, § A3.1(5))
PURCHASING POLICIES
§ 35.15  PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Invitations for bids. All notices of invitations for bids shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the LaGrange Standard and News. The
purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The notice
will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second publication
must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be opened.
   (B)   Requests for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the LaGrange Standard and News. The
purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposals will
be opened.
   (C)   Requests for specifications. All notices of request for specifications
shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the LaGrange Standard and
News. The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide
a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposals will
be opened.
   (D)   Electronic or mail. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or requests for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or the material by electronic means; provided that, the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
(2014 Code, § A3.2(1))
§ 35.16  RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers. Bids received in response to an invitation for bids
must be opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at
the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. Proposals received in
response to a request for proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of
the contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation. Proposals
received in response to a request for specifications may be opened as specified
in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers. The purchasing agency may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals or
request for specifications. An electronic offer may only be received if:
      (1)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
      (2)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or other
system with a security feature that protects the contents of an electronic
offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (C)   Correction and withdrawal of bids. An offeror may correct inadvertent
errors in a bid up to the time at which bids will be opened by supplementing
the erroneous bid and submitting a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an
inadvertently erroneous bid after the time at which the bids were opened. A
bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the time at which
bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours after the time
at which the bids were opened.
   (D)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town’s best interest, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers; provided that, the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
   (E)   Accepting or rejecting bids. The Town Council shall retain the power
to accept or reject all bids.
(2014 Code, § A3.2(2))
§ 35.17  SMALL PURCHASES.
   (A)   The purchasing agent may, with approval of the Town Manager, purchase
supplies with an estimated cost of less than $2,500 after inviting or receiving
quotes from three, or as many as are available if there are less than three
sources.
   (B)   The purchasing agent may, with Town Council approval, purchase
supplies with an estimated cost of less than $25,000 on the open market after
inviting or receiving quotes from three, or as many as are available if there
are less than three sources.
   (C)   A purchase agent may make a purchase of less than $25,000 under small
purchase policies established by the purchasing agency or under rules adopted
by the governmental body.
   (D)   (1)   A purchasing agent may purchase supplies by inviting quotes from
at least three persons known to deal in the lines or classes of supplies to be
purchased.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall mail an invitation to quote at least
seven days before the time fixed for receiving quotes.
      (3)   If the purchasing agent receives a satisfactory quote, the
purchasing agent shall award a contract to the lowest responsible and
responsive bidder for each line or class of supplies quoted.
      (4)   A purchasing agent may reject all quotes.
      (5)   If the purchasing agent does not receive a quote from a responsible
and responsive offeror, the purchasing agent may purchase the supplies using
methods for special purchases.
      (6)   All purchases are subject to approval of the Town Council.
(2014 Code, § A3.2(3))  (Ord. 2015-06-01, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 35.18  REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS.
   (A)   A purchasing agent may award a contract through a request for
proposals procedure instead of competitive sealed bidding when the purchasing
agent makes a written determination that the use of competitive sealed bidding
is not practicable not advantageous to the governmental body, or required by
I.C. 36-5-6-6.
   (B)   The governmental body may also provide by rule or policy that:
      (1)   It is either not practicable or not advantageous to governmental
body to purchase specified types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding;
      (2)   Receiving proposals is the preferred method for purchase of that
type of supply; or
      (3)   Required by I.C. 5-22-8 et seq.
   (C)   A request for proposals must include:
      (1)   The factors or criteria that will be used to evaluate the
proposals;
      (2)   A statement concerning the relative importance of price and the
other evaluation factors;
      (3)   A statement concerning whether the proposal must be accompanied by
a certified check or other evidence of financial responsibility, which may be
imposed in accordance with rules adopted by the governing body; and
      (4)   A statement concerning whether discussions may be conducted with
responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be reasonably
susceptible of being selected for award.
   (D)   A request for proposal must be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-
1, two times, at least one week apart, with the second publication occurring at
least ten days prior to the date the proposals will be received. The purchasing
agent must see that notice is published.
   (E)   Proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to
competing offerors during the process of negotiations.
   (F)   A register of proposals must be prepared and open for public
inspection after a contract award.
   (G)   The register must include:
      (1)   A copy of the request for proposals;
      (2)   A list of all persons to whom copies of the request for proposal
were given;
      (3)   A list of all proposals received, including the following
information;
      (4)   The names and addresses of all offerors;
      (5)   The dollar amount of each offer;
      (6)   The name of the successful offeror and the dollar amount of that
offeror’s offer;
      (7)   The basis on which the award was made; and
      (8)   The entire contents of the contract file except for proprietary
information including with an offer, such as trade secret, manufacturing
processes and financial information that was not required to be made available
for public inspection under the terms of the request for proposals.
   (H)   As provided in the request for proposals, or under the rules or
policies of the governmental body, discussions may be conducted with and best
and final offers obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals
determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for an award.
   (I)   (1)   A contract shall be awarded to the responsible offeror whose
proposal is determined in writing to be the most advantageous to the
governmental body, taking into consideration price and the other evaluation
factors set forth in the request for proposal.
      (2)   If provided for in the request for proposals, contract may be
awarded to more than one offeror whose proposals are determined in writing to
be the most advantageous to the governmental body, taking into consideration
price and the other evaluation factors.
      (3)   The only factors or criteria that may be used in the evaluation of
proposals are those specified in the request for proposals.
      (4)   Offerors must be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to
any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals.
      (5)   In conducting discussion with an offeror, information derived from
proposals submitted by competing offerors may not be disclosed.
(2014 Code, § A3.2(4))
§ 35.19  SPECIAL PURCHASING METHODS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of I.C. 36-5-6-6, a purchasing
agent may make a purchase without soliciting bids or proposals, if the
purchasing agent uses the following special purchasing methods.
   (B)   A special purchase must be made with such competition as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   (C)   A purchasing agent may make a special purchase:
      (1)   When there exists, under emergency conditions, a threat to public
health, welfare or safety;
      (2)   Where there exists a unique opportunity to obtain supplies or
services at a substantial savings to the governmental body;
      (3)   At an auction;
      (4)   Of data process contracts or license agreements for software
programs or supplies or services, when only one source meets the using agency’s
reasonable requirements;
      (5)   When:
         (a)   The compatibility of equipment, accessories or replacement parts
is a substantial consideration in the purchase; and
         (b)   Only one source meets the using agency’s reasonable requirement.
      (6)   When the purchase of the required supplies or services under
another purchasing method provide for in I.C. 5-22 would seriously impair the
functioning of the using agency;
      (7)   When the purchasing agency has solicited for a purchase under other
methods provided for in I.C. 5-22 and has not received a responsive offer;
      (8)   For the evaluation of supplies or a system containing supplies for
any of the following reasons: to obtain functional information or comparative
date; or for a purpose that in the judgment of the purchasing agent may advance
the long-term competitive position of the governmental body;
      (9)   When the market structure is based on price, but the governmental
body is able to receive a dollar or percentage discount of the established
price; and
      (10)   From a public utility if the price is a negotiated price that
considers the results of an independent appraisal obtained by the public
utility and a separate independent appraisal obtained by the purchasing agent.
   (D)   A purchasing agent may award a contract for a supply when there is
only one source for the supply and the purchasing agent determines in writing
that there is only one source for the supply.
   (E)   A purchasing agent may make a purchase from a person when the
purchasing agent determines in writing that:
      (1)   Supplies can be purchased from the person or the person’s
authorized representative at prices equal to or less than the prices stipulated
in current federal supply service schedules established by the General Services
Administration; and
      (2)   It is advantageous to the governmental body’s interest in
efficiency and economy.
   (F)   A purchasing agent may purchase supplies if the purchase is from a
person who has a contract with a federal agency and the person’s contact with
the federal agency requires the person to make the supplies available to the
state or political subdivisions.
   (G)   A purchasing agent for a political subdivision may purchase supplies
if the purchase is made from a person who has a contact with a state agency and
the person’s contract with the state agency requires the person to make the
supplies or services available to political subdivisions.
   (H)   A purchasing agency may acquire supplies if the purchasing agent
determines that the governmental body can obtain the transfer of the supplies
from the federal government as federal surplus property at a cost less than
would be obtained from the purchase of the supplies by soliciting for bids or
proposals.
      (1)   A governmental body may not make a purchase of federal surplus
property if title to the property will be transferred to the governmental body
before sufficient funds have been appropriated.
      (2)   A governmental body may make a purchase of federal surplus property
if:
         (a)   The supplies will be transferred under a conditional sale or
lease, a lease with an option to purchase or a contract for the use of the
supplies; and
         (b)   Sufficient funds are appropriated to pay the consideration for
one year of the agreement.
      (3)   A governmental body that purchases or leases surplus federal
material shall give notice of the purchase or lease in accordance with I.C. 5-
3-1, one time, no later than 30 days after the purchase.
   (I)   A purchasing agent for a board of aviation commissioners or an airport
authority may make a special purchase of petroleum products if the petroleum
products are for resale to the general public.
   (J)   A purchasing agent may acquire supplies by accepting a gift on behalf
of the governmental body.
   (K)   A purchasing agent shall maintain the contract records for a special
purchase in a separate file. The contract file for special purchases must
contain a written determination of the basis for:
      (1)   The special purchase; and
      (2)   The selection of the contractor.
   (L)   A governmental body shall maintain a record listing all contracts made
for special purchases for a minimum of five years. The records must contain:
      (1)   Each contractor’s name;
      (2)   The amount and type of each contract; and
      (3)   A description of the supplies purchased under each contract.
   (M)   The contract records for a special purchase are subject to annual
audit by the state’s Board of Accounts.
(2014 Code, § A3.2(5))
§ 35.20  OTHER PROCEDURES GOVERNING PURCHASES.
   (A)   (1)   A solicitation may provide that offers will be received and
contracts will be awarded separately or for any combination of lines or classes
of supplies or services contained in the solicitation.
      (2)   If the solicitation does not indicate how separate contracts might
be awarded, the purchasing agent may award separate contracts to different
offerors only if the purchasing agent makes a written determination that the
award of separate contracts is in the interest of efficiency or economy.
      (3)   If the purchasing agent awards a contract for a line or class of
supplies or services, or any combination of lines or classes, to an offeror
other than the lowest offeror, the purchasing agent must make a written
determination stating the reasons for awarding a contract to that offeror.
   (B)   A solicitation may provide that the purchasing agent will award a
contract for supplies or services for an unspecified number of items at a fixed
price per unit and that the contract may contain a formula or method for the
escalation of the unit price.
   (C)   A notice or other materials that are to be sent by mail may be sent by
electronic means, as provided for in: rules adopted by the governmental body;
written policies of the purchasing agent; or the solicitation; provided that
the rules, policies or solicitation provide that the electronic transmission of
the information is at least as efficient and secure as sending the information
by mail.
   (D)   A governmental body may receive electronic offers if: the solicitation
describes the procedure for transmitting the electronic offer; and the
governmental body receives the transmission on a fax machine or other system
with a security feature that protects the contents of the offer with the same
degree of protection as the content of an offer not transmitted electronically.
   (E)   (1)   Whenever public notice of a purchase is required, it must be
done in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The purchasing agent may notice in addition
to notice given under I.C. 5-3-1 if the purchasing agent determines it will
increase competition. The purchasing agent shall schedule all notice to provide
a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of responses after
notification.
      (2)   The period between the last publication, mailing or posting of
notices and the final date for submitting offers must be at least seven days.
Note that, with respect to receiving bids, I.C. 53-1 requires at least ten days
between the last publication and the final date for submitting bids.
   (F)   The purchasing agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers,
in whole or in part, as specified in the solicitation, if the purchasing agent
determines it is in the best interests of the governmental body. The reasons
for a cancellation of a solicitation or a rejection of all offers must be made
part of the contract file.
   (G)   An offer may be opened after the time stated in the solicitation if
the governmental body makes a written determination that it is in the best
interest of the governmental body to delay the opening and the date, time and
place of the rescheduled opening is announced at the date, time and place of
the originally scheduled opening.
   (H)   Generally speaking, contract and purchasing records are public records
subject to public inspection and copying in accordance with the public records
statute.
   (I)   However, a governmental body may establish policies or adopt rules for
the protection of documents submitted to the governmental body in response to a
solicitation. Such rules or policies may provide procedures for:
      (1)   Protection of offers before opening to prevent disclosure of the
contents;
      (2)   Affording unobstructed evaluation of offers and the contract awards
by the purchasing agent after opening; and
      (3)   Protection of offers from tampering before and after opening.
(2014 Code, § A3.2(6))
§ 35.21  RESTRICTION OF PURCHASES.
   (A)   Purchases from the Department of Correction.
      (1)   A governmental body shall purchase supplies and services produced
or manufactured by the Department of Correction as listed in the Department’s
printed catalog unless the supplies and services cannot be furnished in a
timely manner.
      (2)   Supplies and services purchased from the Department of Correction
must:
         (a)   Meet the specifications and needs of the purchasing governmental
body; and
         (b)   Be purchased at a fair market price.
      (3)   If these requirements are not met, the governmental body is not
required to purchase supplies from the Department of Correction.
      (4)   The Department of Correction shall furnish each governmental body a
catalog containing:
         (a)   Supplies and services available for sale; and
         (b)   Prices of supplies and services available for sale.
   (B)   Purchases of rehabilitation center products.
      (1)   A governmental body shall purchase articles produced by the state
rehabilitation center for the blind and visually impaired under the same
conditions as articles produces by the Department of Correction, unless similar
articles are produced by the governmental body.
      (2)   The state rehabilitation services bureau shall publish a catalog
for the use of the governmental bodies, show the products and services
available through the rehabilitation center.
      (3)   Whenever a governmental body needs an article listed in the
catalog, the governmental body:
         (a)   Shall give the bureau a reasonable time to produce or supply the
article; and
         (b)   Except for an article produced by the Department of Correction,
may not elsewhere:
            1.   Contract for;
            2.   Purchase;
            3.   Pay a bill for; and
            4.   An article described in the catalog unless the article cannot
be furnished by the Bureau.
      (4)   A governmental body may contract elsewhere for the purchase of an
article described in the catalog if the Bureau provides a written statement
that the Bureau cannot furnish the article.
      (5)   Supplies purchased from the Bureau must:
         (a)   Meet the specifications and needs of the purchasing governmental
body; and
         (b)   Be purchased at a fair market price.
      (6)   If these requirements are not met, the governmental body is not
required to purchase supplies from the Bureau.
   (C)   Purchases from qualified non-profit agencies for person with severe
disabilities.
      (1)   A governmental body that is a political subdivision may purchase
supplies and services from a qualified non-profit agency for persons with serve
disabilities under the same conditions as supplies produced by the Department
of Correction are purchased.
      (2)   A governmental body may apportion purchases of supplies and
services from qualified agencies on an equitable basis among the interested
qualified agencies. Supplies purchased from a qualified agency must:
         (a)   Meet the specifications and needs of the purchasing governmental
body; and
         (b)   Be purchased at a fair market price.
(2014 Code, § A3.2(7))
PURCHASING RULES
§ 35.35  PROTECTION OF OFFER; STATUS AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent shall
retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and time at
which offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents
prior to the opening of the offers.
   (B)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened, the
purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
   (C)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and copying after
the time of the bid opening.
   (D)   Register of proposals.  The purchasing agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals for public inspection and copying.
Proposals may not be disclosed.
(2014 Code, § A3.3(1))
§ 35.36  DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS RESPONDING TO REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   The purchasing agent may conduct discussion with, and best and final offers
may be obtained from, responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to
be reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
(2014 Code, § A3.3(2))
§ 35.37  DELAY OF OPENING OFFERS.
   When the Town Council makes a written determination that it is in the town’s
best interests, offers may be opened after the time stated in the solicitation.
The date, time and place of the rescheduled opening must be announced at the
time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(2014 Code, § A3.3(3))
§ 35.38  EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of purchase is
less than $25,000.
   (B)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility. If
evidence of financial responsibility is required, the solicitation must
indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified
check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a requirement
that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate
the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is
required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (D)   Small business set-asides. The purchasing agent may determine that no
evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small business
set-aside purchase.
(2014 Code, § A3.3(4))
§ 35.39  USE OF RFP FOR PURCHASES OF DESIGNATED TYPES OF SUPPLIES.
   The town determines that:
   (A)   It is either not practicable or not advantageous to purchase certain
types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding; and
   (B)   Receiving proposals is the preferred method for purchasing the
following types of supplies:
      (1)   Office supplies;
      (2)   Routine supplies; and
      (3)   Gasoline and oils.
(2014 Code, § A3.3(5))
§ 35.40  MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustment in a purchase contract. The following provisions for
price adjustments may be included.
      (1)   Price adjustment must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible.
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in the
contract agreed upon.
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
      (4)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon.
      (5)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments must
be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in accordance with
applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
   (B)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral rights of town. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the town to
order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
   (D)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(2014 Code, § A3.3(6))
§ 35.41  SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   (A)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
town purchases.
   (B)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be purchased unless
the town determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States is
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality or comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(2014 Code, § A3.3(7))
CHAPTER 36:  FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Disbursement of money
   
36.02   Facade improvement loan/grant program
Capital Asset Policy
   
36.15   Establishment
   
36.16   Definitions
   
36.17   Land
   
36.18   Machinery and equipment
   
36.19   Buildings
   
36.20   Improvements other than buildings
   
36.21   Recording and accounting
   
36.22   Safeguarding of assets
   
36.23   Composite/group network
   
36.24   Asset transfers and dispositions
   
36.25   Periodic inventories
   
36.26   Responsibilities of Clerk-Treasurer’s office
   
36.27   Responsibilities of department heads
Fees and Rates
   
36.40   Town services; schedule of payments
   
36.41   Fire protection services; charges
   
36.42   Accident investigations, reports and fees
   
36.43   Cemetery rates
   
36.44   Reward; criminal conviction information
   
36.45   Returned check charge
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01  DISBURSEMENT OF MONEY.
   (A)   The Fiscal Officer of the town may make claim payments in advance of
Council allowance for the following type of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
(2014 Code, § A3.5(1))
   (B)   Each payment of expenses made pursuant to this section must be
supported by a fully itemized claim.
(2014 Code, § A3.5(2))
   (C)   The town legislative body or board having jurisdiction over the
allowance of the claim shall review and allow the claim at the body’s or
board’s next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of
the expense.
(2014 Code, § A3.5(3))
§ 36.02  FACADE IMPROVEMENT LOAN/GRANT PROGRAM.
   The application process for the facade improvement loan and grant program is
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2015-07-6, passed 7-6-2015)
CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
§ 36.15  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a fixed asset capitalization policy for the
town.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(1))
§ 36.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL ASSETS.
      (1)   Land, land improvements, including monuments, buildings, building
improvements, construction in progress, machinery and equipment, vehicles and
infrastructure. All land will be capitalized but not depreciated. All items
with a useful life of more than one year, and having a unit cost of $5,000 or
more shall be capitalized (including acquisitions by lease-purchase agreements
or donated items). A capital asset meeting criteria will be reported and
depreciated in the government-wide financial statements.
      (2)   Assets that are not capitalized (items having a unit cost of less
than $5,000 are expensed in the year of acquisition. An inventory will be kept
on all computers and other equipment with a capitalized cost of less than
$5,000. Exceptions are:
         (a)   Items costing less than the above-described limits which are
permanently installed as a part of the cost of original construction or
installation of a larger building or equipment unit will be included in the
cost of the larger unit;
         (b)   Modular equipment added subsequent to original equipment
construction of a larger building or equipment unit which may be put together
to form larger units costing more than the prescribed limits will be charged to
capital assets even though the cost of individual items is less than such
limits; and
         (c)   Cabinets, shelving, bookcases and similar items added subsequent
to original construction, which are custom-made for a specific place and
adaptable elsewhere will be capitalized.
      (3)   Note: purchases made using grant funds must comply with grant
requirements or the above procedures, whichever is most restrictive.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures,
construction or improvement of buildings, structures or other fixed assets and
equipments purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness.
These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the
town’s general fixed assets.
   ENTERPRISE FUNDS.
      (1)   Those funds used to account for operations that:
         (a)   Are financed and operated in a manner similar to private
business enterprise were the intent of the Town Council is that the costs
(expenses, including depreciation) of providing goods or services to the
general public on a continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily through
user charges; or
         (b)   Where the Town Council has decided that periodic determination
of revenues earned, expenses incurred, and/or net income is appropriate for
capital maintenance, public policy, management control, accountability and
other purposes.
      (2)   The Enterprise Fund of the town shall include the municipally-owned
sewage and storm water utilities. Operation of the utilities shall require
Enterprise Fund accounting and reporting.
   FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
activities of the town and that are relatively permanent and are needed for the
production and sale of goods or services are termed property, plant and
equipment or fixed assets.
   HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or services
at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment and most inventories are
common examples of items recognized under the historical cost attribute.
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the physical
senses. These assets may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard
and smelled.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(2))
§ 36.17  LAND.
   (A)   (1)   LAND is defined as specified land, lots, parcels or acreage.
      (2)   The town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost.
      (3)   Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchased outright, as
easements or right-of-way for infrastructure.
      (4)   Examples of infrastructure include roads and streets, street
lighting systems, curbs, parking meters, street signs, viaducts, wharfs and
storm water collection.
   (B)   (1)   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase to the
purchase (including title work and legal opinion), appraisal and negotiation
fees, surveying and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose
(including contractors and/or town employees (salary and benefits), such as
demolishing buildings, excavating, clean up and/or inspection.
      (2)   Land is not depreciated under generally accepted accounting
principles.
   (C)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on the date
of transfer, plus any associated costs.
   (D)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(3))
§ 36.18  MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The definition of machinery and equipment is an apparatus, tool or
conglomeration of pieces to form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not
become a part of a basic structure or building. This category also includes any
other asset or type of physical property not otherwise classified in the
Policy.
   (B)   The town will capitalize and tag items with an individual value equal
to or greater than $5,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to form one
unit with a total value greater than the above mentioned limit will be one
unit.
   (C)   Shipping charges, consultant fees and any other costs directly
associated with the purchase, delivery or setup, (including contractors and/or
town employees (salary and benefits)), which make such equipment operable for
its intended use and purpose will be capitalized.
   (D)   Improvement or renovation to existing machinery and equipment will be
capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Total costs exceed $5,000;
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
   (E)   Salvage value of machinery or equipment will be determined on an
asset-by-asset basis. Depreciation will be calculated at year end.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(3))
§ 36.19  BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roofs, heating, cooling, lighting or sprinkler systems, or any part of the
basic building. The department will include the cost of items designed or
purchased exclusively for the building. All structures designed and erected to
house equipment services or functions are included, such as systems, services
and fixtures within the buildings, and attachments such as porches, stairs,
fire escapes, canopies, areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles and all other
units that serve the building.
      (2)   Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling, ventilating
and air handling systems, alarm systems, sound systems, surveillance systems,
passenger and freight elevators, escalators, built-in casework, walk-in coolers
and freezers, fixed shelving and other fixed equipment are included with the
building, if owned. Communication antennas and/or towers are not included as
building. These are parts of the equipment units that they serve.
   (B)   A department’s new building will be capitalized only if it meets the
following conditions:
      (1)   The total costs exceed $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize only if the result meets all of the fooling conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is extended two years or more; and
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
   (D)   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest cost
(while under construction), accounting costs if material, any costs directly
attributable to the construction of a building.
   (E)   A department will record donated building at fair market value on the
date of transfer with any associated costs.
   (F)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(3))
§ 36.20  IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   These assets are defined as improvements to land for better enjoyment,
attached or not easily removed and which will have a life expectancy of greater
than two years. Examples are walkways, parking areas and drives, golf cart
paths, fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planters,
underground sprinkler systems, water supply mains, collection sewers, wells,
dams, intake pipes, manholes, fire hydrants and other similar items.
Improvements do not include roads, streets or assets that are of value only to
the public. Roads or drives upon town-owned land that provide support to town
facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for public enjoyment is an
infrastructure improvement and is no capitalized. However, sidewalks installed
upon the town-owned land for use by the public and for the support of town
facilities are capital assets.
   (B)   The town will capitalize new improvements, other than buildings, only
if the same meet the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   A department will capitalize improvement or renovations to existing
improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the following
conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
      (2)   The asset’s useful life is extended two years or more; and
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
   (D)   A department’s donated improvements, other than buildings, will be
recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer with any associated
costs.
   (E)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(3))
§ 36.21  RECORDING AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The town and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditures was
made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Towns
Accounting Manual. The cost of property, plants and equipment includes all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the town and its departments, the
valuation of assets shall be based on historical costs, or where the historical
cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in existence.
   (B)   The town’s municipally-owned utilities shall record acquisitions of
fixed assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. When
an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply recorded at the
amount of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its purchase and
preparation for use. Assets may be acquired under a number of other
arrangements including, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
      (1)   Regular purchases;
      (2)   Acquisition under capital lease (see below);
      (3)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase;
      (4)   Purchase on deferred payment contract;
      (5)   Acquisition by resolution/ condemnation;
      (6)   Acquisition by exchange of non-monetary assets;
      (7)   Acquisition by issuance of securities;
      (8)   Acquisition by self-construction;
      (9)   Acquisition by donation, contribution or discovery;
      (10)   Acquisition by outside contractor;
      (11)   Addition to an existing asset;
      (12)   Acquisitions by transfer from another department; and
      (13)   Acquisitions by annexation.
   (C)   Leased equipment should be capitalized if the lease meets any one of
the following criteria:
      (1)   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by the
end of the lease term;
      (2)   The lease contains a bargain purchase option;
      (3)   The lease term is equal to 75% of the estimated economic life of
the leased property; or
      (4)   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of
the lease, excluding executory costs, equals at least 90% of the fair market
value of the leased property.
   (D)   Leases that do not meet any of the above criteria should be recorded
as an operating lease and reported in the notes of the financial statements.
   (E)   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to the
cost to be recorded. For example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has been long recognized as part of the asset cost.
Reference to an Intermediate Accounting Manual will illustrate the recording of
acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the utilities, the valuation of assets
shall be based on historical cost.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(3))
§ 36.22  SAFEGUARDING OF ASSETS.
   The following accounting controls are hereby authorized to be designed,
implemented and followed by all departments, officials, employees and agents of
the town to provide reasonable assurances that the town’s assets are
safeguarded for the benefit of the town and its residents, namely:
   (A)   Capital expenditures made by the town, its various departments and
utilities, shall be in accordance with management’s authorization, as
documented in the minutes;
   (B)   Adequate detail records shall be maintained to assure accountability
for town and utility-owned assets;
   (C)   Access to assets shall be permitted in accordance with management’s
authorization; and
   (D)   The recorded accountability assets be compared with the existing
assets at least every two years, and appropriate action shall be taken with
respect to any discrepancies.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(3))
§ 36.23  COMPOSITE/GROUP NETWORK.
   (A)   A network of assets is composed of all assets that provide a
particular type of service for government. A subsystem of a network of assets
is composed of all assets that make a similar portion or segment of a network
of assets.
   (B)   Composite depreciation refers to calculation of depreciation for a
collection of similar assets. A single composite rate is applied annually to
the acquisition cost of the collection as a whole. At year-end, an adjustment
will be made to the total cost to account for any additions/disposals
throughout the year. The accumulated depreciation associated with it will also
be adjusted. A gain or loss will never be reported on the asset when using the
composite method. A full year’s depreciation will be taken when the asset is
placed in service and no depreciation will be recorded in the year it is sold
or disposed of. Dissimilar assets will be grouped by useful lives.
   (C)   To determine the appropriate depreciation rate for the composite rate,
divide one by the number of years the assets are depreciated. For instance, a
group of assets with a 25-year life will be depreciated at 4% each year (1/25).
   (D)   The following is a list of asset groups and useful lives that will be
used for depreciation purposes.
      (1)   Utilities.
         (a)   Street lights: 35 years;
         (b)   Traffic signals: 25 years;
         (c)   Flood walls/gates: 50 years;
         (d)   Roads: 50 years;
         (e)   Cement: ten years;
         (f)   Gravel: 15 years;
         (g)   Concrete: 30 years;
         (h)   Asphalt concrete: 20 years; and
         (i)   Brick or stone: 50 years.
      (2)   Sewer.
         (a)   Buildings and improvements: 50 years;
         (b)   Sewer lines: 50 years;
         (c)   Combined sewer overflow: 50 years;
         (d)   Lift station: 50 years;
         (e)   Treatment plant/equipment: ten years;
         (f)   Office equipment: five years;
         (g)   Miscellaneous operating equip-ment: five years; and
         (h)   Vehicles: five years.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(3))
§ 36.24  ASSET TRANSFERS AND DISPOSITIONS.
   (A)   Property should not be transferred, turned in for auction or disposed
of without prior approval of the Town Manager and/or the Town Council. A
vehicle/equipment out processing checklist should be sent to the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office in all cases. This form is a dual purpose form for transfer
(defined as any movement of an asset by virtue of change in location, either by
account, department, building, floor or room) or retirement (disposal) of
property.
   (B)   The main points to be remembered when using this form are:
      (1)   Always provide sufficient detail to properly identify the asset
and, most importantly, include the asset’s tag/identification number;
      (2)   Be accurate and do not overlook any of the required entries;
      (3)   Write legibly;
      (4)   Complete each column for every asset listed on the form;
      (5)   Enter information correct rows, depending on whether an asset is
being transferred or deleted;
      (6)   Have Department Head sign the form; and
      (7)   Return the form to the Clerk- Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   If an asset is stolen, the department head should immediately notify
the Police Department, the Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Manager.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(3))
§ 36.25  PERIODIC INVENTORIES.
   A physical inventory of all capital assets (any item over $5,000) will be
conducted in each department on or about December 31 of each calendar year.
Department heads will be accountable for the capital asset inventory charged to
their respective departments by verifying a list of their capital assets at
year end.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(3))
§ 36.26  RESPONSIBILITIES OF CLERK- TREASURER’S OFFICE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer will ensure that accounting for capital assets is being
exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory, both initially and
periodically in subsequent years. The Clerk-Treasurer will further ensure that
the capital asset report will be updated annually to reflect additions,
retirements and transfers, and to reflect the new, annual capital asset balance
for financial reporting purposes and the annual and accumulated depreciation
calculation.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(3))
§ 36.27  RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the department heads to act as, or
designate, a steward for each asset covered by this policy. The steward will
become the focal point for questions regarding the availability, condition and
usage of the asset, as well as the contact person during the physical inventory
process.
   (B)   The steward shall record the receipt of the asset, examine the asset
to make sure that no damage was incurred during shipment and make sure that the
asset was received in working order.
   (C)   (1)   The steward is also responsible for arranging for the necessary
preventative maintenance and any needed repairs to keep the asset in working
condition.
      (2)   It is necessary to have a responsible person available for
questions that arise during a physical inventory or when someone wants to
borrow the asset.
      (3)   The steward ensures that the asset is used for the purpose for
which it was acquired and that there is no personal or unauthorized use. In
addition, the steward should report any property damage of theft.
(2014 Code, § A3.4(3))
FEES AND RATES
§ 36.40  TOWN SERVICES; SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS.
   The following schedule of service and equipment provisions shall be utilized
in all purposes and situations when the town personnel, equipment or services
are utilized for private purposes, or are used to fix, clean, or repair damage
caused to town property as a result of criminal mischief or vandalism:
   (A)   Town streets, cemetery or other non- emergency employees: $50 per
hour;
   (B)   Police officers: $50 per hour;
   (C)   Town vehicles: $50 per hour;
   (D)   Town trucks: $150 per hour;
   (E)   Town vactor: $175 per hour;
   (F)   Town payloader: $175 per hour; and
   (G)   All other town equipment: $50 per hour.
(2014 Code, § A5.2)
§ 36.41  FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES; CHARGES.
   (A)   The following rates and charges shall be made by the town’s Volunteer
Fire Department for any and all applicable fire protection services rendered:
      (1)   For initial response with a fire engine, a fire truck, fire
apparatus or a fire rescue unit dispatched to an incident: $200 per response
vehicle, except command/control vehicle, which is $75 per vehicle;
      (2)   For each hour or fraction thereof as on-scene assistance: $150 per
response unit and $50 per command/control vehicles;
      (3)   For initial responses dispatched for hazardous material incident:
$250 per response vehicle, except command/control vehicle, which is $100 per
vehicle;
      (4)   For each hour or fraction thereof as on-scene assistance for a
hazardous material incident: $150 per response unit and $50 per command/control
vehicle;
      (5)   For expendable materials such as absorption materials, emulsifiers
or other agents used in clean-up operations: the actual replacement cost of
those materials;
      (6)   For collection of debris, chemicals, fuel or contaminated materials
resulting from a spill: the actual cost of removal and disposal at an
authorized location;
      (7)   Under I.C. 36-8-12-17, false alarm service charges: $350;
      (8)   Carbon monoxide and service calls: a charge of $50; and
      (9)   Copies of incident reports: $10.
   (B)   All other rates and charges are hereby reaffirmed and ratified by the
Town Council.
(2014 Code, § A5.3)
§ 36.42  ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS, REPORTS AND FEES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is hereby designated to make said accident
investigations, prepare and maintain written reports of his or her
investigations and provide copies of said reports upon request.
(2014 Code, § A5.4(1))
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall provide copies of said accident reports only
upon a verified written authorization signed by any person who has sustained
any loss or damage, by reason of the injury or death of any person or damage to
property caused or resulting from the operation, maintenance or use of any
vehicle upon any public street or highway of the state, or his or her duly
authorized agent or attorney.
(2014 Code, § A5.4(2))
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall be entitled to charge a fee in an amount of $5
for each copy of any such report, and such fee shall be deposited in a separate
account to be known as the “Accident Report Account”.
(2014 Code, § A5.4(3))
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a receipt for each fee collected.
Further, the Clerk- Treasurer shall receipt the fees to a separate fund known
as the Accident Report Account, and deposit the receipts in the municipality’s
general bank account.
(2014 Code, § A5.4(4))
   (E)   All moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be authorized by
the Town Marshal and expended for any department purpose reasonably related to
the keeping of said accident reports and records or the prevention of street
and highway accidents as provided by law, and shall be paid without
appropriation on the basis of a claim filed, allowed and paid by the Town
Council.
(2014 Code, § A5.4(5))
§ 36.43  CEMETERY RATES.
   (A)   The charges for the following activities at the Greenwood Cemetery
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Grave opening and closing, Monday through Friday: $400;
      (2)   Grave opening and closing, Saturday: $450;
      (3)   Grave opening and closing, Sunday: $500;
      (4)   Babyland burial plot, opening and closing: $300;
      (5)   Cremations: $200;
      (6)   All grave openings and closings include grave thawing: if needed;
      (7)   The charge for a lot at the cemetery to property owners in the
town: $300;
      (8)   The charge for a lot at the cemetery to property owners out of the
town: $500; and
      (9)   Foundation fees: $0.26 per square inch.
   (B)   All other charges of the Greenwood Cemetery not inconsistent herewith
shall remain in full force and effect.
(2014 Code, § A5.5)  (Ord. 2015-07-20, passed 7-20-2015)
§ 36.44  REWARD; CRIMINAL CONVICTION INFORMATION.
   Any person who forwards information to the town, which information results
in the criminal conviction of an individual for the theft, vandalism, or
malicious destruction of a street sign or other town property shall receive a
reward of $100 from the Town Council.
(2014 Code, § A5.6)
§ 36.45  RETURNED CHECK CHARGE.
   (A)   Any person tendering a check for payment of an obligation due to the
town which is then returned and marked as insufficient funds or for any other
reason is dishonored by the maker’s bank, the individual so tendering said
check shall be charged a service fee of $20.
   (B)   Said $20 returned check fee shall be in addition to any and all other
legal rights to which the town may be entitled to by law.
(2014 Code, § A5.7)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
Cross-reference:
   Alteration of water runoff, see §
150.02
   Prevention of backflows, see §
150.03
CHAPTER 51:  SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Placement of trash and refuse containers
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  PLACEMENT OF TRASH AND REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Each homeowner who has trash receptacles intended to be wheeled to the
curbside shall have upon his or her property a safe place to keep and store
said receptacle away from the streets and walkways of the town and as near to
the house or behind some enclosure as possible.
   (B)   No resident of the town shall cause or permit his or her trash
receptacle to remain curbside on any other day, but for his or her trash pick
up day, unless the trash company has failed to pick same up, and such
receptacle is remaining there waiting for said pick up or, in the alternative,
weather or other emergent situation has caused said trash pick up company to be
delayed in the pick up and emptying of said receptacle. It is the specific
intent of this section to make it unlawful for trash receptacles to be stored
curbside for any purpose other than to be picked up by the trash company and
have the contents thereof removed.
(2014 Code, § E2.5)  (Ord. 2014-10-06, passed 10-6-2014)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
51.01 of this chapter will result in a $50 fine, plus all costs incurred by the
town in the collection of same, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorneys’ fees.
(2014 Code, § E2.5(3))  (Ord. 2014-10-06, passed 10-6-2014)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
   
52.01   Water Department
   
52.02   Water rates
   
52.03   Rates for labor services rendered by Water Department
   
52.04   Installation of outside water meter readouts
   
52.05   Water meters at multi-occupancy living units
   
52.06   Flouridation
§ 52.01  WATER DEPARTMENT.
   A Department of Water Works is hereby established for the town. Said
Department shall be directed by a superintendent, managed by the Town Manager
and the Town Council.
(2014 Code, § C1.1)
§ 52.02  WATER RATES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the water utility of the town,
the following rates and charges are based upon the amount of water supplied by
said water utility.
   (A)   Consumption per month.
 
Gallons             Per 1,000 Gallons Inside Town Per 1,000 Gallons Outside
                    Boundaries                    Town Boundaries
First 2,000 gallons $7.79                         $8.95
Next 5,000 gallons  $6.64                         $7.62
Next 8,000 gallons  $5.52                         $6.34
Next 10,000 gallons $4.46                         $5.12
Over 25,000 gallons $2.93                         $3.36
Outside town boundaries rates and charges include a surcharge of 14.9% above
inside town rates.
 
   (B)   Minimum monthly charges.
      (1)   Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance with the
following applicable size of meter installed, for which the user will be
entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above schedule of rates:
                                      Minimum Charge Per Minimum Charge Per
Size of Meter Minimum Gallons Allowed Month Inside Town  Month Outside Town
                                      Boundaries         Boundaries
                                      Minimum Charge Per Minimum Charge Per
Size of Meter Minimum Gallons Allowed Month Inside Town  Month Outside Town
                                      Boundaries         Boundaries
5/8 - 3/4"    2,000                   $15.58             $17.90
1"            7,088                   $49.27             $56.56
1-1/2"        13,754                  $86.06             $98.82
2"            28,492                  $147.77            $169.65
3"            78,492                  $294.27            $337.65
4"            145,175                 $489.65            $561.71
6"            228,492                 $733.77            $841.65
Outside town boundaries rates and charges include a surcharge of 14.9% above
inside town rates.
 
      (2)   Apartment buildings will be charged the greater of: actual flow,
subject to minimum monthly charges; or number of apartments times minimum
charge for a 5/8" meter.
   (C)   Private fire protection service. Service under these rates shall
consist of stand-by service for fire emergencies and all water taken through
such connections shall be restricted to fire emergencies only. The Waterworks
reserves the right to install flow detectors from time to time to ensure such
service is restricted to firefighting purposes:
 
Private Fire Connection - Per Inside Town Boundaries Outside Town Boundaries
Annum
6" connection                 $1,261.60              $1,449.57
8" connection                 $1,854.10              $2,130.36
10" connection                $2,448                 $2,812.75
Hydrant                       $1,261.60              $1,449.57
Outside town boundaries rates and charges include a surcharge of 14.9% above
inside town rates.
 
   (D)   (1)   Public fire protection.
 
                   Inside Town Boundaries Outside Town Boundaries
Charge per hydrant $1,261.60              N/A
 
      (2)   Per month based on water meter size.
Connection Size Inside Town Boundaries Outside Town Boundaries
Connection Size Inside Town Boundaries Outside Town Boundaries
5/8 - 3/4"      N/A                    $15.43
1"              N/A                    $38.58
1-1/2"          N/A                    $77.15
2"              N/A                    $123.44
3"              N/A                    $231.45
4"              N/A                    $385.75
6"              N/A                    $771.50
Outside town boundaries rates and charges include a surcharge of 14.9% above
inside town rates.
Commercial/industrial users will be charged a hydrant fee per meter.
Residential users will pay one fixed hydrant fee per household.
 
   (E)   (1) Public fountain.
 
                    Inside Town Boundaries Outside Town Boundaries
Charge per fountain $1,261.60              N/A
 
      (2)   Non-recurring charges.
         (a)   Deposit: $100;
         (b)   Tag charge: $5;
         (c)   Reconnection charge: $25; and
         (d)   Returned check fee: $40.
      (3)   Tap fees.
 
5/8" - 3/4"   $200
1" and larger Cost, but not less than $200
Must pay the minimum and receive a permit from the Clerk-Treasurer’s office
before receiving a building permit.
 
      (4)   Delinquent bill charges. After the tenth day of the month: 10% of
the delinquent bill.
(Ord. 2020-9-21(A), passed 9-21-2020)
§ 52.03  RATES FOR LABOR SERVICES RENDERED BY WATER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Residential properties. When the Water Department Superintendent is
asked to perform labor services, his or her labor rate should be billed to the
individual at the rate of $50 per hour, and employees of the Water Department
shall bill their time for said services at the rate of $50 per hour.
(2014 Code, § C1.3(1))
   (B)   Commercial properties. If the project being undertaken is a commercial
project, the labors of the Water Department Superintendent shall be $100 and
employees of that Superintendent shall bill their rate at $50 per hour.
(2014 Code, § C1.3(2))
§ 52.04  INSTALLATION OF OUTSIDE WATER METER READOUTS.
   (A)   Mandatory installation. All customers of the municipal water utility
whose water usage is measured by means of a one inch or less water meter shall,
by 12-31-1990, install or cause to be installed an outside meter readout, which
shall be permanently affixed to the structure within which the water meter has
been installed, such that water meter readings can be observed from outside the
structure.
(2014 Code, § C1.4(1))
   (B)   Installation by town employees. Upon the request of any customer of
the municipal water utility, the utility shall provide and install the
necessary outside meter readout at a total cost of $25 per meter; provided
that, said installation is requested prior to 12-1-1990.
(2014 Code, § C1.4(2))
   (C)   Failure to install. Any customer who fails to request installation of
an outside meter readout before 12-1-1990 shall be subject to the involuntary
installation of the meter by employees of the town, for which installation a
customer will be billed for the actual cost of the readout, attachment supplies
and wiring, together with installation fee of $25.
(2014 Code, § C1.4(3))
§ 52.05  WATER METERS AT MULTI- OCCUPANCY LIVING UNITS.
   (A)   The town may install one water meter at the entrance point from the
water line to each multi- occupancy dwelling unit that is serviced by the
town’s Water Department.
(2014 Code, § C1.5(1))
   (B)   The town, through the town’s Water Department, may use said meter as a
means for obtaining accurate water usage information for purposes of billing.
(2014 Code, § C1.5(2))
§ 52.06  FLUORIDATION.
   (A)   The Water Works Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to
have plans and specifications prepared for the purchase and installation of
equipment to add sodium fluoride to the water being distributed by the town’s
municipal water utility and to submit them to the state’s Board of Health for
approval.
(2014 Code, § C1.6(1))
   (B)   Upon the approval of these plans and specifications by the state’s
Board of Health, such equipment and supplies be purchased and installed in the
manner provided by the state law and that, thereupon, said fluoride compound be
added to the public water supply in sufficient quantities to bring the total
amount of fluoride ion (F-) present in the finished water to the optimum
concentration recommended by the state’s Board of Health, but not exceeding one
and one-half parts per million by weight.
(2014 Code, § C1.6(2))
CHAPTER 53:  SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Discharges and unsanitary matter
   
53.03   Connections to building sewers
   
53.04   Unauthorized connections
   
53.05   Prohibited discharges
   
53.06   Pretreatment of industrial wastes
   
53.07   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information
   
53.08   Storm sewer connections
   
53.09   Industrial cooling water
   
53.10   Wastewater flow characteristics
   
53.11   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
53.12   Unusual flows or wastes
   
53.13   Limits; state and federal requirements
   
53.14   Damage; tampering with structures
   
53.15   Authority; necessary work and inspections
   
53.16   Rates and charges
Administrative Enforcement
   
53.30   Notification of violation
   
53.31   Consent orders
   
53.32   Show cause hearing
   
53.33   Compliance orders
   
53.34   Cease and desist orders
   
53.35   Emergency suspensions
   
53.36   Termination of discharge
   
53.37   Town authority
   
53.38   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.39   State pretreatment standards
   
53.40   Sewer Adjustment Board
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any terms
not defined herein, but defined in the Sewer Rate Ordinance (Ord. 2020-09-08
(a)) shall have the same meaning herein.
   ADMINISTRATIVE FINES. A monetary charge assessed for an industrial user (IU)
who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter or permits and
orders.
   ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER (AO). Notification to the industrial user of specific
requirements that need to be met by a specific deadline.
   AMMONIA (NH-N). The same as ammonia nitrogen measured as nitrogen. The
laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth
in Standard Methods, as defined herein.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD) OF SEWAGE, SEWAGE EFFLUENT, POLLUTED WATERS
OR INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The quantity of dissolved oxygen in milligrams per liter
required during stabilization of the decomposable organic matter by aerobic
biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for five days at 20°C.
The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set
forth in Standard Methods.
   BOARD. The Town Council or any duly authorized officials or boards acting in
its behalf.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of building drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to a point approximately five feet
outside the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING DRAIN - SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN - STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING (OR HOUSE) LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain to
the sewerage system or other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE
CONNECTIONS.)
   BUILDING SEWER - SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER - STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or other
clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
   CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS. An order issued to an IU that has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, order or any other pretreatment standard or requirement.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD) OF SEWAGE, SEWAGE EFFLUENT, POLLUTED WATERS OR
INDUSTRIAL WASTES. A measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion of
organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong
chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.
      (1)   Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform
bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the
treatment works as designed to treat such pollutants and in fact does remove
such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term substantial degree is not
subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in the order
of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not
considered substantial.
      (2)   Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered
compatible include:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Total organic carbon;
         (c)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
         (d)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; or
         (e)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin, (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   COMPLIANCE ORDERS. A formal time and management schedule contained in an
enforcement order, established for the non-compliant IU to achieve compliance.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY (CA). The Commissioner of the state’s Department of
Environmental Management.
   CONSENT ORDERS. An agreement with an IU responsible for non-compliance.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE GUIDE (ERG). Designates enforcement options for each
type or pattern of non-compliance.
   ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN (ERP).
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage or sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids, and further defined in
40 C.F.R. part 403.
   IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGER. A non-domestic discharger introducing pollutants into a
POTW, regardless of whether the discharger is within the governmental
jurisdiction of the permittee.
   INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR (IPC). Person responsible for the day-
to-day implementation of the industrial pretreatment program.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. An indirect discharger.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substances or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business process or from the development, recovery or processing
of any natural resource carried on by a person and shall further mean any waste
from an industrial sewer.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leader, cellar, yard
and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges, drains
from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street
wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and is distinguishable from
infiltration.)
   INFORMAL NOTICE. A documented phone call, written warning or a meeting
notifying the IU of minor incidences that have occurred and that need to be
corrected.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town through its
Council to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer system.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does one of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods;
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation; or
      (3)   Prevents the use of the POTW’s sewage sludge or its sludge disposal
method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345);
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. § 6901),
including:
            1.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
            2.   The rules contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. § 6941).
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401); and
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. § 2601).
   NOV (NOTICE OF VIOLATION). The initial formal enforcement action for a
violation.
   NPDES PERMIT. National pollutant discharge elimination system permit setting
forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to § 402 of
Pub. Law No. 95-217, the Water Pollution Control Act (Amendments of 1977), also
known as the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in the Sewer Rate
Ordinance.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through a POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, are a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the POTW’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership,
copartnership, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the state, the United States of
America or other legal entity, or their legal representative, agents or assign.
The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the singular shall include
the plural where indicated by the context.
   PHOSPHORUS (P). The chemical element phosphorus, total. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
Standard Methods, as defined herein.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration
can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, process changes
or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d); and shall
include all applicable rules and regulations contained in the Code of Federal
Regulations as published in the Federal Register, under § 307 of Pub. Law No.
95-217, the Water Pollution Control Act (Amendments of 1977), also known as the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342, under regulation 40 C.F.R. part 403,
captioned General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of
Pollution, pursuant to the Act, and amendments.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user, including applicable local limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
      (1)   State pretreatment standards as established in 327 I.A.C. 5-18-8;
      (2)   Pretreatment standards for prohibited discharges, as established in
327 I.A.C. 5-18-2; and
      (3)   National categorical pretreatment standards incorporated by
reference in 327 I.A.C. 5-18-10.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works owned by the state
or a municipality; except that, it does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. The term includes
any devices and systems used in storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation
of municipal sewage or compatible industrial wastes. The term also includes
sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to a POTW
treatment plant. POTW also means the municipality that has jurisdiction over
the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such treatment works.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at which
wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including
polluted cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are as follows.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from toilet and other sanitary facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SHOW CAUSE HEARING. When the IU and the POTW meet to discuss the cause and
effect of the violation.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). The following:
      (1)   Industrial users subject to pretreatment standards under 327 I.A.C.
5-18-10;
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater) to the POTW;
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER by the control
authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
            1.   Adversely affect the POTW’s operation;
            2.   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
            3.   Violate a requirement of 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3.
      (3)   The control authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or a POTW and in accordance with
327 I.A.C. 5-19-3(6), determine that an industrial user is not a SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL USER if it does not meet the requirements of division (2)(c) above.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than five minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration of flow during normal operation and which adversely affects the
sewage works.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and The Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determination shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to the Clean Water Act (Pub. Law No. 95-
217), the Water Pollution Control Act (Amendments of 1977), also known as the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VIOLATIONS. Any sampling, monitoring or reporting deficiencies whether
unintentional or otherwise.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated to 500°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WASTEWATER. Water in which sewage has been discharged.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.02  DISCHARGES AND UNSANITARY MATTER.
   (A)   It shall be permissible for the town to impose fees, to offset the
costs incurred by the permittee for administering the pretreatment program
requirements established in this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or watercourse
within the town, any wastewater or other polluted water, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with the laws of the United States,
the state and the town.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted
industrial water.
   (E)   No new connection shall be made unless there is capacity available to
all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the sewage treatment
plant, including capacity for BOD and SS.
   (F)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town, any wastewater or other polluted water, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provision of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (G)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted water, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (H)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (I)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town is hereby required, at his or
her expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provision of this chapter, within 180 days after date of official notice to do
so; provided that, said public sewer is within 500 feet of the property line of
any residence or existing business, or within 1,000 feet of any property line
of a new business or subdivision sought to be platted, developed or
constructed. For purposes of this chapter, a new business shall include any
business, industrial or commercial use and subdivision shall include all those
items as same is defined by the county’s Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03  CONNECTIONS TO BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.02(G) of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of the County Health
Department in conjunction with 410 IAC 6-8.3 (Residential On-Site Sewage
Systems).
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
53.02(D) of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material. When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 180 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (D)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Health
Officer.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.04  UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit and paying a tap fee from the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   The owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the said town. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specification or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the Inspector. A sewer permit fee of $100 and an inspection fee of $10 shall
be paid to the Clerk- Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, joint
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement drains,
sump pumps, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (J)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools, shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
Where a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural sewer is not available, such
unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval
by the town.
   (K)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Wastewater Superintendent. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the Wastewater Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural
outlet.
   (L)   The connection of a building sewer into the public sewer shall conform
to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All such
connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
   (M)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the said
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer, and said inspection will be made.
   (N)   All excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the Council that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the Council will
give consideration to the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process,
capacity of the treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances
prohibited are:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas which create a fire or explosion hazard in the
town’s wastewater treatment system including, but not limited to, substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 140°F (0°
and 60°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 SU and greater than
9.0 SU or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structure, equipment and personnel of the sewage works or that
interferes with any treatment process;
      (4)   Heat in an amount that could:
         (a)   Inhibit biological activity in the POTW and result in
interference or damage to the POTW; or
         (b)   Exceed 40°C or 104°F at the POTW treatment plant unless the
Commissioner, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature limits.
      (5)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 140°F and 0° and
60°C;
      (6)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three- fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Council or Wastewater Superintendent;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Wastewater Superintendent for such materials;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Council as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (10)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Council in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (11)   Any water, wastes or wastewater which exerts or cause:
         (a)   A pollutant from any source of non-domestic wastewaters that
could pass through or cause interference with the performance or operation of
the POTW;
         (b)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited, to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (c)   Obstruction to the flow in the town sewers or other interference
with the proper operation of the wastewater treatment plant;
         (d)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (e)   A pollutant, including an oxygen demanding pollutant (such as
biochemical oxygen demand) released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant
concentration that could cause interference in the POTW; and
         (f)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (13)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, permit to
be deposited, or discharged in any manner whatsoever, any substance into a
sewer at a point different than the proposed sewer connection to the sanitary
sewer system.
   (B)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (A)(2) above, and which, in
the judgment of the Council, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or otherwise create a hazard
to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Council may:
      (1)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
      (2)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage, as defined; and
      (4)   Require control of flow equalization of such wastes so as to avoid
any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works.
   (C)   If the Wastewater Superintendent permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Wastewater
Superintendent and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws.
   (D)   Where preliminary treatment or flow- equalizing facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owners at his, her or their
expenses; or require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loading
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating such wastes.
   (E)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner or any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole, together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer, to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times. Agents of the town, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies
and the USEPA shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
   (F)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water
and waste to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole, except for application for NPDES permits and
report thereof such shall be conducted in accordance with rules and regulations
adopted by the USEPA, 40 C.F.R. part 136 and any subsequent revisions subject
to approval by the town. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.)
   (G)   Normally, but not always, BOD and SS analyses are obtained from 24-
hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab
samples.
   (H)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste or unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rate ordinance.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.06  PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to the POTW’s
headworks:
      (1)   Any trucked or hauled industrial process or hazardous wastes; and
      (2)   Any septic tank waste, except at discharge points designated by the
POTW and with unexpired waste hauler discharge permits.
   (B)   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries
prior to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the
rules and regulations adopted by the USEPA (40 C.F.R. part 403), and Guidelines
Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants (40 C.F.R. part 136),
require compliance with all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements
by indirect dischargers, in addition to any more stringent requirements
established by the town and subsequent state or federal guidelines and rules
and regulations.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07  PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS AND OTHER PERTINENT INFORMATION.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment of control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town,
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
owner at his or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
town to determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
the applicable federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall
maintain operating records of the influent and effluent to show the performance
of the treatment facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.08  STORM SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.09  INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
53.08 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.10  WASTEWATER FLOW CHARACTERISTICS.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flow characteristics. Such
measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the user’s expense. If made
by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the option of
the town.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.11  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors or types will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, be
gas-tight, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers. The
Wastewater Superintendent shall review and approve all such grease, oil and
sand interceptors or traps prior to their installation and the facility using
town services. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps
shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times. Maintenance activities of all grease, oil and
sand interceptors or traps shall be documented as to the date, maintenance
vendor, disposal site and disposal date. Documentation shall be submitted to
the Wastewater Superintendent no later than 30 days following each maintenance
activity. Industrial users shall provide written details of the proposed grease
trap, for review and ultimate approval by the Wastewater Superintendent.
   (B)   Industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as
required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
federal categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as
specified by the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the WWTP shall be provided,
operated and maintained at the industrial user’s expense. Detailed plans
showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted
to the town for review and approval of such plans by IDEM before construction
of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no
way relieve the industrial user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the town under the
provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent significant modification in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation affecting its discharge shall be
reported to and be acceptable to the town prior the industrial user’s
initiation of the changes.
      (1)   When the POTW demonstrates consistent removal of pollutants limited
by federal categorical pretreatment standards, as required by 40 C.F.R. §
403.7, and any amendments thereto, the town may apply to the Administrator of
EPA, or IDEM, for authorization to give a removal credit to reflect removal
toxic or other regulated pollutants by the town’s wastewater treatment system.
      (2)   Federal categorical pretreatment standards found under the
appropriate part of 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N, or state requirements and
limitations on discharges shall apply in any case where they are more stringent
than those in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.12  UNUSUAL FLOWS OR WASTES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.13  LIMITS; STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be, in
effect.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.14  DAMAGE; TAMPERING WITH STRUCTURES.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.15  AUTHORITY; NECESSARY WORK AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions, as required
in §
53.05 of this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.16  RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Class I users.
      (1)   Treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage per month:
 
User Charge Debt Service Totals
$4.25       $1.72        $5.97
 
      (2)   Plus, base rate per month:
Meter Size User Charge Debt Service Total
Meter Size    User Charge Debt Service Total
5/8" - 3/4"   $8.15       $2.25        $10.40
1"            $16.73      $5.72        $22.45
1/4" - 1-1/2" $35.57      $13.18       $48.75
2"            $59.62      $22.78       $82.40
3"            $133.91     $52.34       $186.25
4"            $236.79     $93.26       $330.05
6"            $528.37     $209.28      $737.65
8"            $939.94     $373.06      $1,313
 
      (3)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined by equivalent single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month).
      (4)   The schedule on which said rates and charges will be determined is
as follows:
 
                                         Monthly Rate User Charge
Residential: single-family dwelling unit $32.50
 
      (5)   Additionally, each user shall be charged a general improvement fee
based on the size of their meter. The schedule on which said fee will be
determined is as follows:
 
Public Utility General Improvement Fee per Month
Meter Size      Monthly Rate User Charge
5/8" - 3/4"     $9.70
1"              $31.25
1-1/4" - 1-1/2" $62.50
2"              $187.50
3"              $250
 
Tap Fees
Meter Size    Cost
5/8" - 3/4"   $200
1" and larger Cost, but not less than $200
Must pay the minimum and receive a permit from the Clerk-Treasurer’s office
before receiving a building permit.
   
   (7)   Delinquent bill charges: after the tenth day of the month, the
delinquent bill charge will be 10% of the delinquent bill.
   (B)   Non-recurring charges. A deposit of $50 shall be required for all new
sewer users, and a tag charge of $5 shall likewise be charged. A reconnect
charge of $25 shall be billed to all clients who need reconnected and a
disconnect charge of $25 shall likewise be charged. A returned check fee of $40
will be charged for any returned checks.
   (C)   Users outside town boundaries. For all users outside town boundaries,
rates and charges shall include a surcharge of 14.9% above applicable inside
town boundary rates and charges.
(Ord. 2015-08-17, passed 9-8-2015, Ord. 2020-09-08(a), passed 10-5-2020)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.30  NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within seven days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of
the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention
thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user
to the Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.31  CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance
or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible
for non-compliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by
the user to correct the non-compliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to this chapter and shall be judicially
enforceable.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.32  SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Superintendent and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least 14 days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on
any authorized representative of the user, as defined in this chapter. A show
cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.33  COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for
the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified
time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the non-compliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.34  CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.35  EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or cause
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons.
The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent may
allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the of endangerment has passed,
unless termination proceedings in this chapter are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing per this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.36  TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to the provisions in this chapter, any user who violates
the following conditions is subject to discharge termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in this chapter.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause per this chapter why the
proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the
Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.37  TOWN AUTHORITY.
   The town reserves the right to establish by resolution more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater system than those
in this chapter if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.38  NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with the categorical pretreatment standards found at 40
C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N, parts 405 through 471.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.39  STATE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with state pretreatment standards codified at 327 I.A.C.
5-17 through 327 I.A.C. 5-21.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 53.40  SEWER ADJUSTMENT BOARD.
   (A)   The Town Council does hereby create the Town Sewer Adjustment Board.
   (B)   Said Board shall be comprised of the Water Superintendent, Town
Manager and Town Clerk-Treasurer, and said Board shall meet at least monthly,
and consider any and all requests for sewer adjustment when a water leakage or
other water usage occurred and said water did not result in usage of the
wastewater treatment facility of the town.
   (C)   The Sewer Adjustment Board shall make all appropriate adjustments to
sewer bills, and shall be entitled to grant a credit on the sewer bill of any
entitled citizen, not to exceed the sum of $300.
   (D)   If any adjustment sought exceeds the sum of $300, that adjustment must
be made by the full Town Council at a regular meeting.
(Res. 2019-9-3(b), passed 9-3-2019)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to
exceed $7,500. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis.
In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall
be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
      (2)   Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall, after 30 calendar days,
be assessed an additional penalty of 5% of the unpaid balance, and interest
shall accrue thereafter at a rate of 3% per month. A lien against the user’s
property shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines and penalties.
      (3)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request
for the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the
fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the
user’s appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing
thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
      (4)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (B)   Judicial enforcement remedies.
      (1)   Injunctive relief. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent may petition the
[insert name of appropriate court] through the Town Attorney for the issuance
of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or
compels the specific performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit,
order or other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user.
The Superintendent may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal
and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
      (2)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision
of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the town for a maximum civil penalty of $7,500 per violation, per day. In the
case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall
accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
         (b)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court
costs and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the town.
         (c)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall
take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to,
the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as
justice requires.
         (d)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
      (3)   Criminal prosecution.
         (a)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than
$7,500 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than one year, or
both.
         (b)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance
into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least
$7,500, or be subject to imprisonment for not more than one year, or both. This
penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury
or property damage available under state law.
         (c)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations
or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other
documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter,
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who
falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device
or method required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a
fine of not more than $7,500 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not
more than one year, or both.
         (d)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $7,500 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not
more than one year, or both.
      (4)   Remedies non-exclusive.
         (a)   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all or any combination of these actions against a
non-compliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan.
         (b)   However, the Superintendent may take other action against any
user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered
to take more than one enforcement action against any non-compliant user.
      (5)   Violations.
         (a)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter
shall be served by the town with a written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, immediately halt or prevent any discharge of
pollutants to the POTW which reasonably appears to present an imminent
endangerment to the health or welfare of the public, the environment and/or
which threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW.
         (b)   Any person permitting said violation to occur, causing said
violation to occur, or being the named or record user of the sewer at the site
where the violation occurred, shall be charged a one time fine as a result of
said violation, such fine including, but not limited to, any costs of clean-up,
correction or expenses incurred by the sewer plant as a result of said
violation, as well as any professional fees, including attorneys’ fees incurred
as a result of the violation and its clean-up.
         (c)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in §
53.30 of this chapter shall be guilty of a major violation, and on conviction
thereof shall be fined at least $1,000 per day, per violation, in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(1)(vi)(A), but no more than $2,500 per day, per
violation for a first violation, nor more than $7,500 per day per violation for
subsequent violations, in accordance with I.C. 36-l-3-8(a)(10)(B). Each day in
which any violation shall continue after the date referred to in §
53.30 of this chapter shall be deemed a separate offense.
         (d)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
town by reason of such violation, including, but not limited to, professional
and attorneys’ fees incurred.
(Ord. 2014-01-20, passed 1-20-2014)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
71.   SNOW EMERGENCIES
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Safety recommendations
   
70.02   State law authority
   
70.03   Definitions
   
70.04   Crosswalks
   
70.05   Street and alley names
   
70.06   Unauthorized use of offending vehicle
   
70.07   Authority to post signs
   
70.08   Engine brakes
   
70.09   Alarm systems
Parking Restrictions
   
70.20   Definitions
   
70.21   Obstruction of vision
   
70.22   Direction
   
70.23   Towing and impounding
   
70.24   Moving parked cars
   
70.25   Overnight parking
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  SAFETY RECOMMENDATIONS.
   Upon investigation by the Traffic Safety Committee, and recommendation to
the Town Council, the following provisions regarding traffic control within the
corporate limits of the town is hereby deemed to be necessary to effectuate and
preserve the safety of automobiles upon the streets of the town.
(2014 Code, § D1.1(1))
§ 70.02  STATE LAW AUTHORITY.
   This traffic code is enacted pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 9-13-2-94,
9-21-1-1, 9-21-1-2, 9-21-1-3, 9-21-1-4, 9-21-1-5 and 9-21-4-3.
(2014 Code, § D1.1(2))
§ 70.03  DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases, when used in this traffic code, shall have their
ordinary, usual and customary meaning; except that, in case of conflict the
statutory definitions contained in I.C. 9-13-2-1 et seq. shall prevail.
(2014 Code, § D1.1(3))
§ 70.04 CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   The following crosswalks are hereby established, and shall be marked
with appropriate signage, and shall include painting or other displays upon the
paved portion of the roadway they cross: A crosswalk, and appropriate signage
will be created approximately 105 feet north of the intersection of Lake Street
and Mountain Street, and will connect the access aisle of the east parking lot
with the existing west side parking lot.  The crosswalk will be composed of
stripes which will be placed upon the pavement of the roadway in a piano key
method, to assure maximum visibility to both pedestrians and the motoring
public, and shall have appropriate signage placed upon said street, both north
and south, at said street's intersection with said crosswalk. Said crosswalk
shall be subject to the laws of the state as reference right-of-way, and
traffic shall stop and recognize that individuals utilizing said crosswalk
shall have the right-of-way, all as is more fully provided under the laws of
the state.  Any motor vehicle violating this section by unlawfully entering
said crosswalk when a pedestrian is already within same shall commit a Class A
infraction, punishable by a fine of up to $100, and further, shall pay all
costs of prosecution connected with said violation, including attorney's fees
and court costs.
   (B)   The penalties imposed by the above division shall be an addition to
any penalties imposed by the state and/or the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and
shall include attorney's fees and all costs of collection.
(Ord. 2020-05-04B, passed 6-4-2020)
§ 70.05  STREET AND ALLEY NAMES.
   The street, alley and highway names hereafter used in this traffic code
shall be as shown on the recorded plats of the town on record in the Recorder’s
office in and for the county; except that, as to newly named streets,
incorporated herein by this reference, and which is being filed with this
traffic code in the records of the town in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall
be used to supplement same.
(2014 Code, § D1.1(4))
§ 70.06  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF OFFENDING VEHICLE.
   Unless the registered owner of a motor vehicle shall show that the operation
of the offending vehicle at the time and place of alleged offense was
unauthorized by him or her, the current motor vehicle registration of any
offending vehicle shall constitute prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the motor vehicle at the time of such violation.
(2014 Code, § D1.1(8))
§ 70.07  AUTHORITY TO POST SIGNS.
   The town is hereby authorized and directed to post signs, paint signs on the
pavement, or otherwise notify vehicle operators of the existence of provisions
of this traffic code. Said employees are further directed to effectuate the
provisions of this traffic code as soon as same can be done.
(2014 Code, § D1.1(9))
§ 70.08  ENGINE BRAKES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful upon any road in or within 200 feet of a
residential zone within the town limits to utilize an engine brake retarder
device or similar mechanism on a semi-tractor, tractor-trailer combination, or
multi-axle vehicle so as to use the engine to slow or reduce the speed of any
said vehicle or combination thereof, when said vehicle is not equipped with a
proper and functioning muffler system. Said system must be equal to or more
restrictive than the OEM muffler provided by the manufacturer of the vehicle.
(2014 Code, § D1.5(1))
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which make an unusually
loud or unnecessary noise, or which is not equipped with a muffler in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise or excessive smoke. It shall
also be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in a loud or disorderly manner so
as to disturb the peace and quiet of the residential neighborhood.
(2014 Code, § D1.5(2))
   (C)   It shall be illegal and unlawful for any motor vehicle or horse-drawn
vehicle, other than a vehicle specifically designed so as to make a public
statement by permit issued by the town, or during a parade or other celebratory
festival as authorized by the Town Council, to cause to emit a noise through an
audio component and/or instrumentality located within or upon said automobile
or horse-drawn vehicle which sound is audible from any house or structure or
within ten feet of any such house or structure.
(2014 Code, § D1.5(3))
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09  ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any entity desiring to test or check its alarm system shall first
notify the 911 Communications Center of the county and the appropriate
emergency personnel, before testing said equipment and following the completion
of said test.
(2014 Code, § D1.6(1))
   (B)   (1)   Any time an alarm is turned in and emergency services personnel,
which shall include fire department personnel, responds, a charge shall be made
for the response of said fire equipment, pursuant to the Fire Department
routine charges and if, in fact, the alarm is a false alarm, a charge of $25
per law enforcement or emergency service vehicle of the town which responds
shall also be made.
      (2)   This $25 per unit charge shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of
the town within ten days of any charge made.
(2014 Code, § D1.6(2))
   (C)   If an entity has repeated false alarms pursuant to this section, the
Town Council reserves the right to contact said entity and demand their
appearance before the Town Council and, if the reason for said false alarms and
their occurrences cannot be resolved, to direct the entity to discontinue or
modify its alarm services, so as to cause the discontinuances of said false
alarms.
(2014 Code, § D1.6(3))
Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
§ 70.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PARKING LOT. Any parking lot owned or maintained by the town.
   PUBLIC STREET. Any street, including county roads, within the limits of the
town.
   VEHICLES. Automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, motor homes,
motorcycles and any other vehicles of any description designed to travel on two
or more wheels.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(1))
§ 70.21  OBSTRUCTION OF VISION.
   (A)   No vehicles shall be parked on any public street or on public property
within the town in such a manner as to obstruct the vision of drivers
approaching an intersection from any direction.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked on private property within the town in such a
manner as to obstruct the vision of drivers approaching an intersection from
any direction shall be moved upon notice to do so given to the owner of said
vehicle by the Town Marshal.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(2))  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22  DIRECTION.
   All vehicles shall park in the direction of traffic flow in the lane
immediate adjacent to the parking space. Any violation of this provision shall
be deemed a Class A infraction. No vehicle shall be parked in the yard or upon
the sidewalk adjacent to any structure; all parking to be in driveways clearly
identified by an appropriate hard surface, in parking lots/areas; or in proper
locations upon town streets.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(2))  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23  TOWING AND IMPOUNDING.
   The town shall have the right to direct the Town Marshal, or any other
agent, to remove or tow away, or to have removed or towed away by any
commercial towing serve any motor vehicle illegally parked pursuant to this
subchapter, or any vehicle which blocks the use of a fire hydrant, or may
obstruct the movement of any emergency vehicle, or where such parked vehicle
creates or constitutes a traffic hazard or potential traffic hazard. Any cars
so towed away for illegal parking shall be stored in a safe place and restored
to the owner or operator of the same upon payment of commercial towing service
bill and a presentation of proper proof of ownership.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(3))
§ 70.24  MOVING PARKED CARS.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to leave a motor vehicle parked upon
a city street in the town for a period in excess of two weeks without moving
said motor vehicle from any specific parking spot. It is the intent of this
subchapter to require the movement of vehicles upon city streets so as to
permit routine maintenance, street cleaning and other necessary city functions
which cannot be accomplished by vehicles which set for an inordinate amount of
time in a specific place.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(4))  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25  OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   No overnight parking shall be permitted in or upon any of the town-owned
parks, that no parking for non-park purposes on weekends, and there shall be
absolutely no parking from 11:30 p.m. to 5:00 a.m., officer discretion to be
exercised.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(5))  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the foregoing
provisions of §§
70.01 through
70.05 of this chapter, or failing to obey any of the signs described above and
erected pursuant to same, or otherwise violating any of the portions hereof
shall be fined as follows:
         (a)   For Class A infractions: $100 to $10,000;
         (b)   For Class B infractions: $75;
         (c)   For Class C infractions: $50; and
         (d)   For Class D infractions: $25.
      (2)   Any subsequent admission or judgment of a violation thereafter of
the same ordinance or code provision within a calendar year shall be subject to
double the penalty set forth above as the total civil penalty, plus any and all
attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D1.1(10))
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.07 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’
fees, costs of collection and any expenses incurred by the town including, but
not limited to, towing and storage of said vehicle.
(2014 Code, § D1.5(4))
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.21(A) of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all
attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.21(B) of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all
attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(2))
   (E)   Any violation of the provisions of §
70.22 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’
fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(2))
   (F)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.24 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’
fees, costs of collection and any expenses incurred by the town including, but
not limited to, towing and storage of said vehicle.
      (2)   Any subsequent admission or judgment of a violation thereafter of
the same ordinance or code provision within a calendar year shall be deemed a
Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount
not to exceed $100, plus any and all attorneys’ fees, costs of collection and
any other reasonable expenses incurred by the town.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(4))
   (G)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.25 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’
fees, costs of collection and any additional expenses incurred by the town
including, but not limited to, towing and storage of said vehicle.
      (2)   Any subsequent admission or judgment of a violation thereafter of
the same ordinance or code provision within a calendar year shall be deemed a
Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount
not to exceed $100, plus any and all attorneys’ fees, costs of collection and
any reasonable expenses incurred by the town.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(5))
CHAPTER 71:  SNOW EMERGENCIES
Section
   
71.01   Title
   
71.02   Declaration of emergency
   
71.03   Levels of emergencies
   
71.04   Broadcast of declaration
   
71.05   Exemptions
   
71.06   Parking procedures during emergency
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Town of LaGrange Snow Emergency
Ordinance” and shall apply to any and all streets, alleys or rights-of-way
within the corporate limits of the town which are maintained by the town’s
Street Department.
(2014 Code, § D1.3(1))
§ 71.02  DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The President of the Town Council shall consult with the members of
the Council, the Town Manager, the Town Marshal and/or the Street
Superintendent for the purpose of declaring the appropriate snow emergency
level that would be in the best interest of the public safety and welfare of
the residents of the town.
   (B)   Such emergency declaration shall remain in effect until the above
mentioned officials or their respective designees who declared the emergency
thereafter determine an emergency no longer exists and vacate the emergency
order.
(2014 Code, § D1.3(2))
§ 71.03  LEVELS OF EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Snow emergency declarations shall consist of three distinct levels in
order to inform the residents of the town the weather conditions and street
conditions within the town, and to assist the street department in clearing the
town roadways by eliminating unnecessary obstacles and stranded vehicles.
   (B)   The three levels shall be defined as follows.
      (1)   Level 1 RED snow emergency. This level may be declared when streets
have become impassable and the Street Department personnel are unable to keep
the streets clear due to severe snowfall and/or high winds producing drifting
and blizzard-like conditions. Travel may be restricted to emergency personnel
only and essential emergency travel by members of the public by declaration of
the town, including any further restrictions which the Town Council deems
necessary based upon the severity of the weather conditions.
      (2)   Level 2 ORANGE warning snow emergency. This level may be declared
when conditions are threatening to the safety of the public. Only essential
travel on the town streets is recommended.
      (3)   Level 3 YELLOW watch snow emergency. This level may be declared
when routine travel or activities may be restricted in areas of the town due to
a hazardous situation. Citizens should use caution or avoid these areas.
(2014 Code, § D1.3(3))
§ 71.04  BROADCAST OF DECLARATION.
   The Town Council shall broadcast notice of any snow emergency declaration by
contacting local law enforcement agencies, Fire Department, Street
Superintendent, local news outlets and posting said notice on the town’s
website at www.lagrangein.org.
(2014 Code, § D1.3(4))
§ 71.05  EXEMPTIONS.
   Vehicles exempt from this chapter shall include medical assistance, law
enforcement, Fire Department, emergency management, public utility, fuel
hauling vehicles and employees of any of the above exempt services, if engaged
in performing their respective duties. Any other vehicles violating this
chapter are subject to fines and to removal by towing or other means at the
expense of the owner of the vehicle, when such towing and/or removal is deemed
necessary by any one or more of the following entities: the town’s Street
Department; the town’s Police Department; the County Sheriff’s Department; or
State Police.
(2014 Code, § D1.3(5))
§ 71.06  PARKING PROCEDURES DURING EMERGENCY.
   During snow emergency declarations, parking procedures shall be implemented
as follows.
   (A)   Streets within the town that normally permit parking on both sides of
the street will be subject to “alternate side of the street” parking,
specifically: on odd-numbered days of the month, parking is permitted only on
the odd-numbered side of the street; likewise, on even-numbered days of the
month, parking is permitted only on the even numbered side of the street.
   (B)   Streets within the town that normally permit parking on only one side
of the street will be subject to “alternate” parking, specifically: if the
permitted side, where parking is allowed, is even-numbered, vehicles can park
on that side only on even-numbered days of the month; likewise, if the
permitted side, where parking is allowed is odd-numbered, vehicles can park on
that side only on odd-numbered days of the month. No parking is ever permitted
on the side of the street where parking is prohibited by posted sign.
(2014 Code, § D1.3(6))  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision this chapter and any
such violation shall be fined as follows.
   (A)   The first offense in a 24-month period shall be deemed a Class C
infraction subject to a fine not to exceed $50, plus costs of collection.
   (B)   Each subsequent offense in a 24- month period shall be deemed a Class
A infraction subject to a fine not to exceed $100, plus costs of collection.
   (C)   In addition any violator of any provision of this chapter shall
further pay any and all reasonable attorneys’ fees, monetary losses of the town
or any other expenses incurred in collecting and enforcing this chapter.
(2014 Code, § D1.3(7))
CHAPTER 72:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operation and operators
   
72.03   Financial responsibility
   
72.04   Time of operation
   
72.05   Place of operation
   
72.06   Occupants
   
72.07   Traffic rules
   
72.08   Emergencies
   
72.09   “Slow-moving vehicle” sign
   
72.10   Permit
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by
Indiana or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart or
off-road vehicle in an amount not less than required by state law for motor
vehicles operated on public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle originally designed for operation on a golf course and
powered by a battery or internal combustion motor.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(1))
§ 72.02  OPERATION AND OPERATORS.
   (A)   The operation of a golf cart within the town is strictly prohibited
unless the golf cart is operated, insured and equipped in full compliance with
this subchapter and the vehicle has displayed a permit issued by the town.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(2))
   (B)   Only a person over 16 years of age and holding a valid driver’s
license may operate a golf cart upon streets and alleys of the town.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(3))
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The operator or owner of a golf cart must show financial
responsibility when operating such vehicle upon town streets and alleys.
   (B)   Written proof of financial responsibility must be available on the
golf cart or carried by the operator at all times.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(4))  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  TIME OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall not be operated on any town streets between one-half hour
after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, unless the golf cart is equipped
with two operating headlights (one on each side of the front of the golf cart)
and two operating tail lights. At all times, any vehicle operated pursuant to
this subchapter shall have brake lights and turn signals (one on each side of
the rear and front of the vehicle), which are visible from a distance of 500
feet.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(5))  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05  PLACE OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts may be operated on town streets, alleys and parking lots. Such
vehicles may not be parked or operated on sidewalks. Such vehicles must be
parked in a legal fashion.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(6))  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06  OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number
of persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on the vehicle.
   (B)   The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and no
parts of the bodies of the operator or any occupant shall extend outside the
perimeter of the vehicle while such is being operated.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(7))  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07  TRAFFIC RULES.
   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town which govern the operation of the
motor vehicles.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(8))  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08  EMERGENCIES.
   In case of snow, weather or other emergency, any vehicle appropriate to
transport necessary personnel or property shall be temporarily permitted upon
town streets. Such use shall be subject to any County Sheriff, Emergency
Management or Town Council emergency orders or directives.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(9))
§ 72.09  “SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE” SIGN.
   All golf carts must display on the back of the vehicle a “slow-moving
vehicle” sign of the same type required under state law.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(10))  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10  PERMIT.
   Each year any vehicle which meets the requirements of this subchapter must
acquire a permit through the town before operating upon town streets. The
permit/decal shall be at the cost of $35.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(11))
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of §§
72.01 through
72.10 of this chapter shall constitute a Class A infraction and a violation of
this town code. An owner, lessee or operator may be cited to appear in a court
of competent jurisdiction by issuance of a state uniform traffic ticket. Upon
finding by such court that an owner, lessee or operator of a golf cart has
violated any provision of §§
72.01 through
72.10 of this chapter, such person shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
$200 for each offense, plus attorneys’ fees and costs of collection, along with
court costs in the amount that same now exists or may hereafter be determined
by ordinance or statute.
(2014 Code, § D1.4(12))
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits and zones
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS AND ZONES.
   (A)   The following speed zones are hereby established, and shall be marked
with appropriate signs. No motorist shall drive faster than is permitted by
this schedule in the following zones.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by this traffic code, or by subsequent
ordinance, the speed limit on all streets, roads and highway within the
corporate limits of the town shall be 30 mph. Signs indicating this 30 mph
speed limit shall be erected at all necessary and applicable locations on the
streets of the town. Any person who violates the provisions of this subsection
(1) commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of
collection.
      (2)   The speed limit in all school zones within the town shall be 20
mph. Signs indicating this speed limit shall be erected in appropriate and
lawful positions thereon. Any person who violates the provisions of this
subsection (2) commits a Class B infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined in an amount not to exceed $75, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and
costs of collection.
      (3)   The speed limit in all hospital zones within the town shall be 20
mph. Signs indicating this speed limit shall be erected in appropriate and
lawful positions thereon. Any person who violates the provisions of this
subsection (3) commits a Class B infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined in an amount not to exceed $75, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and
costs of collection.
      (4)   The speed zone on Orchard Hill Drive is hereby reduced to 20 mph,
and signs indicating this speed limit shall be erected in appropriate and
lawful positions thereon. Any person who violates the provisions of this
subsection (4) commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and
costs of collection.
      (5)   The speed limit for Michigan Street, both east and west from its
intersection with Lakeland Avenue to its intersection with Cherry Street, shall
be reduced to 25 mph when children are present and signs indicating “SPEED
LIMIT 25 MPH WHEN CHILDREN PRESENT” shall be erected in appropriate and lawful
positions thereon. Any person who violates the provisions of this subsection
(5) commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of
collection.
      (6)   The speed zone on Meadowbrook Lane is hereby reduced to 20 mph, and
signs indicating this speed limit shall be erected in appropriate and lawful
positions thereon. Any person who violates the provisions of this subsection
(6) commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of
collection.
(2014 Code, § D1.1(5))
      (7)   The speed zone on Mountain Street, between Steuben Street and North
Street, shall be reduced to 15 mph. Any person who violates the provisions of
this subsection (7) commits a Class B infraction, and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined an amount not to exceed $75, plus any and all attorney's fees
and costs of collection.
      (8)   The speed limit on Lake Street, between High Street and Mountain
Street, shall be reduced to 15 mph. Any person who violates the provisions of
this subsection (8) commits a Class B infraction, and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined an amount not to exceed $75, plus any and all attorney's fees
and costs of collection.
      (9)   The speed limit on North Street between High Street and Mountain
Street shall be reduced to 15 mph. Any person who violates the provisions of
this subsection (9) commits a Class B infraction, and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined an amount not to exceed $75, plus any and all attorney's fees
and costs of collection.
   (B)   This reduction in speed limits is necessary because the portion of
said streets are adjacent to, and within, the area where certain park
improvements are being made, and it is anticipated that pedestrian usage,
particularly that of small children, will require reduction of the posted speed
limits to ensure the safety of said individuals utilizing the park properties
as well as the motoring public itself.
   (C)   The town is authorized and directed to post signs, paint signs on
pavement, or otherwise noted by vehicle operators of the existence of this
subchapter. Said employees are further directed to effectuate the provisions of
this subchapter as soon as same can be done.
   (D)   The penalties imposed by the above subsections shall be an addition to
any penalties imposed by the state and/or the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and
shall include attorney's fees and all costs of collection.
(Ord. 2020-05-04C, passed 6-4-2020)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following stop sign designations are hereby established and the town is
hereby authorized and directed to post signs, paint signs on the pavement or
otherwise notify vehicle operators of the existence of the stop streets.
   (A)   (1)   The following intersections in the town are designated as a
four-way stop intersections and every driver or vehicle shall stop at such
intersection at clearly marked stop sign before entering said intersection,
except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic signal:
         (a)   High Street and Factory Street;
         (b)   Nursery Street and Maple Street;
         (c)   Canal Street and Spring Street;
         (d)   Steuben Street and Sherman Street;
         (e)   Steuben Street and Mountain Street;
         (f)   Mountain Street and Factory Street; and
         (g)   Town Line Road at intersection with Factory and Parkview
Hospital Entrance.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of this division (A) commits
a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount
not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
   (B)   (1)   The following intersections in the town are designated as stop
intersections and every driver or vehicle shall stop at such intersection at
clearly marked stop sign before entering said intersection, except when
directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic signal:
Through Street Stop Street
Through Street     Stop Street
All streets        All private driveways
All streets        All alleys
Bell Street        Mott Street
Canal Street       Lake Street
Canal Street       Steuben Street
Canal Street       North Street
Canal Street       Factory Street
Canal Street       Michigan Street
Canal Street       Lafayette Street
Canal Street       Maple Street
Canal Street       E. Wayne Street
Central Avenue     Town Line Road
Central Avenue     Mountain Street
Central Avenue     Hawpatch Street
Central Avenue     Walnut Street
Central Avenue     Fenn Street Extension
Central Avenue     Sherman Street
Central Avenue     Vine Street
Central Avenue     Poplar Street
Cherry Street      Poplar Street
Cherry Street      Spring Street
Church Street      Sherman Street
Church Street      Vine Street
County Road 100 E. Pleasant Lane
County Road 100 E. Meadowbrook Lane
Detroit Street     Nursery Street
Detroit Street     North Street
Detroit Street     Lake Street
Detroit Street     Steuben Street
Detroit Street     Factory Street
Detroit Street     Seymour Street
Detroit Street     Clay Street
Detroit Street     Fenn Street
Detroit Street     South Street
Detroit Street     Poplar Street
Detroit Street     Michigan Street
Detroit Street     Spring Street
Detroit Street     Lafayette Street
Detroit Street     Wayne Street
Detroit Street     Bell Street
Factory Street     Walnut Street
Factory Street     Poplar Street
Factory Street     Sycamore Street
Factory Street     Sherman Street
Fairview Court     Hillside Drive
Hawpatch Street    Church Street
Hawpatch Street    Fenn Street
Hawpatch Street    Bell Street
Hawpatch Street    Orchard Hill Drive
Hawpatch Street    Gum Street
Hawpatch Street    Union Street
Hawpatch Street    Seymour Street
Hawpatch Street    South Street
High Street        Steuben Street
High Street        Lake Street
Hillside Drive     Fairview Court
Hillside Street    Fairview Street
Lafayette Street   High Street
Lafayette Street   Walnut Street
Lafayette Street   Poplar Street
Lake Street        Poplar Street
Lake Street        Sycamore Street
Maple Street       Steuben Street
Maple Street       Pleasant Lane
Meadowbrook Lane   Fairview Court
Michigan Street    Maple Street
Michigan Street    Poplar Street
Michigan Street    Sycamore Street
Michigan Street    Sherman Street
Michigan Street    Mountain Street
Michigan Street    High Street
Michigan Street    Cherry Street
Michigan Street    Fairview Street
Michigan Street    Walnut Street
Michigan Street    County Road 100 E.
Mountain Street    Lake Street
Mountain Street    Spring Street
Mountain Street    Grant Street
Mountain Street    Lafayette Street
Mountain Street    Wayne Street
North Street       Sherman Street
North Street       Mountain Street
North Street       High Street
Nursery Street     Old Road 9
Nursery Street     Walnut Street
Old Road 9         Nursery Street
Parkway            Hillside Drive
Pleasant Lane      Parkway
Pleasant Lane      Fairview Court
Pleasant Lane      Hillside Drive
Poplar Street      Ryason
Poplar Street      Bell Street
Poplar Street      Seymour Street
Poplar Street      Clay Street
Poplar Street      Fenn Street
Poplar Street      South Street
South Street       Mott Street
South Street       Union Street
Spring Street      Walnut Street
Spring Street      Sycamore Street
Spring Street      High Street
Spring Street      Poplar Street
Spring Street      Parkside School Entrance
Spring Street      Sherman Street
Steuben Street     Sherman Street
Steuben Street     Sycamore Street
Steuben Street     Mountain Street
Steuben Street     Poplar Street
Town Line Road     Michigan Street
Town Line Road     Church Street
Town Line Road     North Street
Town Line Road     Steuben Street
Town Line Road     Spring Street
Town Line Road     Orchard Hill Drive
Town Line Road     County Road 050 N.
Town Line Road     Factory Street
Town Line Road     Grant Street
Union Street       Clay Street
Union Street       Fenn Street
Union Street       Bell Street
Union Street       Seymour Street
Vine Street        Gum Street
Walnut Street      Lake Street
Walnut Street      Factory Street
Walnut Street      Steuben Street
Wayne Street       High Street
Wayne Street       Walnut Street
Wayne Street       Poplar Street
 
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of this division (B) commits
a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount
not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
   (C)   (1)   The following intersections in the town are designated as three-
way stop intersections and every driver or vehicle shall stop at such
intersections at clearly marked stop sign before entering said intersections,
except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic signal: Grant
Street, at its intersection with Sherman Street (east side only), creating a
three-way stop;  and the intersection of Lake Street and Mountain Street shall
become a 3-way stop.
      (2)   The town is authorized and directed to post signs, paint signs on
pavement, or otherwise noted by vehicle operators of the existence of this
schedule.  Said employees are further directed to effectuate the provisions of
this schedule as soon as same can be done.
      (3)   Any person who violates the provisions of this division (C) commits
a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount
not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D1.1(6))  (Ord. 2020-05-04A, passed 6-4-2020)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets are designated as one-way only streets and all
motorists shall be obligated to operate their motor vehicles in such a manner
so as not to violate same:
      (1)   The alley from Central Avenue to Wayne Street (behind Post Office):
south bound only; and
      (2)   The alley between 408 and 410 East Michigan Street and 407 East
Spring Street shall be one way southbound.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this schedule commits a
Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount
not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D1.1(7))
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restriction and prohibited parking
      
II.   Disabled parking
      
III.   Overnight parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTION AND PROHIBITED PARKING.
   No parking shall be allowed and signs shall be erected in the following
zones and all motorists shall be obligated to operate their motor vehicle in
such a manner so as not to violate same.
   (A)   No parking.
Street Location
Street                   Location
All alleys and sidewalks No parking
                         -From Spring Street to Michigan Street, east side
                         -From North Street to Spring Street, west side
Canal Street             -From North Street to Nursery Street, both sides
                         -From Spring Street to Wayne Street, during the hours
                         of 3:00 p.m. until midnight, west side
Central Avenue           From city limit to city limit, both sides
Detroit Street           -From Fenn Street to Central Avenue
                         -From Seymour Street to Central Avenue, both sides
Fairview                 East side, none
                         -From Poplar Street to the North Fenn extension, south
                         side
                         -From Fenn Street extension beginning at a point 732
                         feet east of poplar street and continuing along Fenn
Fenn Street              Street extension and along South Fenn Street,
                         approximately 622 feet, to a point 639 feet south of
                         Central Avenue, both sides
                         -From between Poplar Street, south side, and Detroit
                         Street (S.R. 9)
Grant Street             -From Mountain Street to Sherman Street, north side
                         -From Sherman Street to Town Line Road, north side
Hawpatch Street          From Central Avenue to South Street, west side
                         The first parking space north of the alley running
High Street              parallel between Spring Street and Lafayette Street
                         located on the east side of High Street South of
                         Spring Street
Hillside Drive           There shall be no parking on the west side of Hillside
                         Drive
Lakeland Drive           West side, none
                         -From Steuben Street to the basketball courts, both
Michigan Street          sides
                         -From Walnut to Canal Street, south side
                         -From Central Avenue to the alley between Central
Mountain Street          Avenue and Lafayette Street, east side, west side
                         -From First Methodist Church from alley south to
                         Lafayette Street, east side
Nursery Street           None
Orchard Hill Drive       Both sides, none
Pleasant Lane            South side, none
                         -From Michigan to Spring Street, west side
Poplar Street            -From south of Central Avenue (U.S. 20), both sides,
                         and intersection with Detroit Street (S.R. 9)
Railroad Street          From Central Avenue to Fenn Street
Seymour Street           None
Sherman Street           From Central Avenue to Michigan Street, east side
Spring Street            -From Walnut Street to Canal Street, south side
                         -From Mountain Street to Town Line Road, north side
Town Line Road           None
Union Street             From alley south of grocery store parking lot to
                         Hawpatch Street intersection, west side
Vine Street              From Central Avenue to Gum Street, south of Central
                         Avenue, east side, none
Wayne Street             From High Street to Mountain Street, both sides
 
      (1)   All other streets and balance of town parking lots which are not
listed above shall be designated as 24-hour parking limit.
      (2)   All vehicles must be must be parked in the same direction as the
traffic lane flows adjacent to the parking space.
      (3)   Any person violating the provisions of this division (A) commits a
Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount
not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
   (B)   Restricted parking.
      (1)   Special parking regulations on streets in the town shall be
designated as follows:
Street Location Restriction
Street                Location                     Restriction
                      The first 4 parking spaces
                      on Wayne Street west of the
                     intersection with Poplar     30-minute parking
                      Street on the south side of
                      the street
                      First two spots on the north
                     side of Michigan Street,     Loading zone
                      from the alley west toward
                      S.R. 9
                      The 2nd and 3rd parking
                     spaces on the west side of   1-hour parking
                      High Street north of
                      Michigan Street
                      From Detroit Street the      2-hour parking, 8:00 a.m. to
East Lafayette Street first three parking spots on 6:00 p.m.
                      the south side
                      From Michigan Street, from
High Street           the alley immediately east   30-minute parking
                      of the County Office
                      Building to High Street
                      From S.R. 9 west to the      2-hour parking, 8:00 a.m. to
Lafayette Street      first alley, north and south 6:00 p.m.
                      sides
                      From Detroit Street to west  2-hour parking, 8:00 a.m. to
Michigan Street       side of locker building,     6:00 p.m.
                      north side
                      From High Street, from the
                      alley immediately north of
Michigan Street       the intersection with        30-minute parking
                      Michigan Street to Michigan
                      Street
                      All parking spaces on the
                      north side of Michigan
Michigan Street       Street between Detroit       30-minute parking
                      Street on the east and High
                      Street on the west
Poplar Street         From Lafayette north to      2-hour parking
                      first alley, east side
Wayne Street          From Detroit Street to       2-hour parking
                      alley, north side
Wayne Street East     South side, first four       2-hour parking
                      spaces
 
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of this division (B) commits a
Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount
not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(2))  (Ord. 2014-9-2(b), passed 9-2-2014; Ord. 2017-04-17,
passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2018-6-4A, passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2019-9-3(a), passed 10-
21-2019)
SCHEDULE II. DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   Disabled parking regulations on the streets of the town shall be
designated as follows:
      (1)   The first spot north of Spring Street on the west side of Detroit
Street;
      (2)   The first spot south of Michigan Street on the west side of Detroit
Street;
      (3)   The first spot west of Farmers State Bank parking lot entrance on
the north side of Wayne Street;
      (4)   The first spot north of the alley on the west side of High Street
south of Spring Street;
      (5)   The first spot on the south side of Lafayette Street east of
Detroit Street;
      (6)   The fourth and fifth parking spots east of High Street on the north
side of Spring Street and the south side of Michigan Street; and
      (7)   The first spot on Spring Street, west of Indiana 9, south side,
east of the north/south alley, which, if extended, intersects the Courthouse
Square.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule commits a Class B
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $75, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(2))  (Ord. 2015-07-14, passed 7-14-2015; Ord. 2018-03-19A,
passed 3-19-2018)
SCHEDULE III. OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   (A)   In the town, there shall be no overnight parking between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. in the parking lot located at 109-111 South Detroit
Street, and the parking lot located directly southwest of the intersection of
East Michigan Street and North Poplar Street. Any person violating the
provisions of this division (A) commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all
attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any semi-truck, heavy truck or heavy
trailer to park on a town street unless said tractor/truck, trailer and/or
power unit trailer combination is engaged in an unloading or loading situation,
or in a properly zoned facility equipped for parking said vehicles.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (B), a HEAVY TRUCK, TRACTOR/TRUCK or
HEAVY TRAILER is defined as a truck or tractor plated at 9,000 pounds or
greater, a truck trailer combination plated at greater than 9,000 pounds, or a
trailer separately plated at greater than 9,000 pounds.
      (3)   This division (B) shall not apply to any tractor/power unit, truck,
trailer or combination thereof, plated or operated, by any federal, state,
county, municipal agency or governmental unit.
      (4)   Violation of this division (B) shall be a Class A infraction, and
any person deemed to have violated same should be responsible for the fine
consistent with a Class A infraction, as well as any and all legal expenses
incurred by the town in prosecuting or collecting same.
(2014 Code, § D1.2(2))  (Ord. 2019-02-24, passed 1-24-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   ANIMAL CONTROL
CHAPTER 90:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Storage of debris
   
90.02   Grass clippings and other yard waste
Public Nuisances; Abatement and Removal
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Initial action and notice
   
90.17   Service of notice
   
90.18   Hearing
   
90.19   Judicial review
   
90.20   Enforcement of order
   
90.21   Costs of removal
   
90.22   Notice not required
   
90.23   Transfer of property
   
90.24   Conflict of law
   
90.25   Effect
   
90.26   Fees
   
90.27   Citation for overgrown grass
Unsafe Buildings
   
90.40   Adoption of law
   
90.41   Department of Unsafe Structures
   
90.42   State statutes
   
90.43   Hearing authority
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  STORAGE OF DEBRIS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED. Any item found outdoors and not in its place of normal use.
      DEBRIS. Any household appliances, furniture or any other items ordinarily
intended for use indoors, which are found out of doors, and which are not in
the process of being manufactured or repaired; and further, shall apply to any
vehicle parts not in the process of being repaired.
(2014 Code, § D2.3(1))
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
store or maintain any junked, wrecked or abandoned debris on public or private
property within the corporate limits of the town, where the same is not kept in
a garage or other enclosure as not to be exposed to public view, except as
hereinafter set forth in divisions (C) and (D) below.
(2014 Code, § D2.3(2))
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to any person,
firm or corporation lawfully engaged in the manufacture, sale or repair of
those items referred to in division (A) above in which the storage of said
items is incident to the carrying on of said business.
(2014 Code, § D2.3(3))
   (D)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to any person,
firm or corporation engaged in the business of operating a junk or storage
yard.
(2014 Code, § D2.3(4))
   (E)   The Town Marshal or any duly authorized member of the Town Council or
their agent is hereby authorized to issue a written demand to the owner,
occupant, agent or person in possession of the premises wherein any of the
above nuisances are maintained in violation of this section, notifying such
person, firm or corporation to remove and abate such nuisance from the premises
within ten days from the receipt of such notice, and in the event that the
identity of such owner, occupant, agent or person in possession is unknown,
then such notice shall be attached in duplicate to any of said items which
shall constitute a nuisance. Upon the failure or refusal of any person to
remove such nuisance within the time specified, the town, through any of its
agents, may abate said nuisance and shall have the power to remove any such
item of debris and impound the same at the owner’s expense, and every person
who shall oppose or resist the execution of said Town Council in the premises
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2014 Code, § D2.3(5))
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  GRASS CLIPPINGS AND OTHER YARD WASTE.
   (A)   No citizen may place or in any way allow their grass clippings and/or
other yard waste or debris to accumulate on any street in the town. The first
violation of this section will be handled via the issuance of a warning. Any
subsequent violations of this section within the same calendar year will be
considered a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in
an amount set out in §
90.99 of this chapter.
(2014 Code, § D2.5(1))
   (B)   The placement of leaves roadside for town pick-up or removal shall not
be subject to this ordinance; provided that, said placement shall not be over
or adjacent to a manhole or drainage structure.
(2014 Code, § D2.5(2))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Whenever the Town Marshal or any duly qualified and acting
law enforcement officer shall find that any person has committed any action
which is declared unlawful by the provisions of this section, such Marshal or
officer may give written notice to such person of such violation. All such
notices shall be serially numbered and shall contain the following information:
            1.   The specific violation with which the violator is charged;
            2.   The location of the violation;
            3.   The signature of the Marshal or officer;
            4.   The date of the violation;
            5.   The amount of penalty prescribed by this section.
         (b)   The notice shall also contain the following statement: “Within
72 hours from the time of violation as shown on this notice of violation, bring
this notice to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, Town Hall, LaGrange, Indiana,
46761, or mail fine to such address within 72 hours from the time of violation,
or warrant will be issued for arrest which may result in extra costs.”
         (c)   All such written notices shall be executed by the Town Marshal
or officer in triplicate. One copy shall be served upon the violator as herein
provided, one copy shall be filed in the office of the Town Marshal and one
copy with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Any such person receiving written notice of a violation pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall, within 72 hours from the date of the
violation, appear at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, Town Hall, LaGrange,
Indiana, 46761, and pay the prescribed penalty by depositing such amount along
with the notice of violation with the officer on duty or in the place provided
and marked for such purpose, or such person within such time may mail such fine
with the written notice to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. In the event that said
72-hour period shall expire on Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, such violator
shall have up to 4:00 p.m. on the next day following that the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office is open. The penalties which shall be payable in compromise of the
violations of this section shall be in accordance herewith.
      (3)   If any person receiving notice of violation shall fail to appear to
pay the penalty for such violation under this section within the prescribed
time, the Town Marshal shall prepare or cause to be prepared, a proper
affidavit for the arrest of such violator. Each arrest summons shall be
docketed in the County or Circuit Court, in the name of the town pursuant to
law and the rules and regulations of said court. The matter shall be prosecuted
by the Town Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney. Any party found to have
violated this section shall pay all court costs and attorneys’ fees incurred in
the enforcement of this section against such party.
(2014 Code, § D2.5(3))
Penalty, see §
90.99
PUBLIC NUISANCES; ABATEMENT AND REMOVAL
§ 90.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Council shall designate a town or county department, or
other designee as being responsible for the enforcement of this subchapter
within the town and grant to such all powers reasonable and necessary for the
performance of its responsibilities under this subchapter.
   ENFORCEMENT BOARD. A board established to administer hearings regarding
nuisance violations. The town hereby does create the following ENFORCEMENT
BOARDS:
      (1)   Town Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   Town Manager; and
      (3)   A designated Town Council member.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The town appoints the Town Marshal as the enforcement
officer, responsible for the regulation and enforcement of any nuisance
violations within the town.
   JUNK VEHICLES. Any motor vehicle or non-motor vehicle that is either
disassembled, non- operative, wrecked or does not bear a currently valid
license plate, or would be considered “junk” by a reasonable person, and is not
in a garage or other building, but is kept in open view upon public or private
property. A person may rebut a determination by the Ordinance Enforcement
Officer (“enforcement officer”) that a car, bus, semi-truck, recreational
vehicle or motorcycle is a JUNK VEHICLE by driving such a vehicle, under the
vehicle’s own power, to the office of the enforcement officer with valid tags
and proof of registration and insurance within ten days of receiving notice of
noncompliance with this subchapter.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Includes, but shall not be limited to, cars, buses, semi-
trucks, golf carts, all- terrain vehicles, motorized recreational vehicles and
motorcycles. Agricultural machinery located on land properly zoned and owned by
persons actively engaged in farming shall be exempt from this subchapter.
   NON-MOTOR VEHICLES. Includes, but shall not be limited to, semi-trailers,
boats, non- motorized recreational vehicles and trailers of any kind.
   PUBLIC NUISANCES. Defined in accordance with I.C. 36-8-2-4 and may include,
but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Litter;
      (2)   Grass and weeds over eight inches high, but not including small
trees and bushes;
      (3)   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items and tires and the
like, but not stock or inventory used in conducting agricultural activities in
a properly zoned area;
      (4)   Demolition remains;
      (5)   Accumulated garbage and trash;
      (6)   Vehicle parts and scrap metal (including, but not limited to, those
defined at I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq.);
      (7)   Structures defaced with paint or graffiti;
      (8)   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, rubbish, human excrement,
which is deposited, allowed or caused to be upon any public or private
property;
      (9)   The construction of, or the placement of any structure or materials
within the drainage way of any right-of-way that will prevent the natural flow
of water and cause it to collect and pool upon any private or public property;
      (10)   Any dead domestic or wild animal;
      (11)   Any real or personal property that is infected with contagious
disease and is likely to cause an immediate health hazard;
      (12)   The placing or accumulating on or within any real or personal
property or the permitting of same, of any matter which attracts or may attract
rodents, insects, domestic or wild animals in such a manner as to create a
health hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition;
      (13)   Trees, shrubbery, weeds or other matter obstructing public ways or
causing visual barriers which create vehicular traffic or pedestrian safety
hazards;
      (14)   The unauthorized placement of fences, signs, shrubbery or barriers
within road rights-of-way;
      (15)   Junk vehicles, as defined by this subchapter, due to the danger to
public health from vermin and insects that inhabit such vehicles, and the
danger to safety of children attracted by such vehicles, except in lawfully
operated junkyards that have been properly zoned and licensed; and
      (16)   Industrial machinery, unless located on land that is properly
zoned for such use and owned by persons actively engaged in industry.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(1))
§ 90.16  INITIAL ACTION AND NOTICE.
   When the Department determines that a public nuisance exists, other than
grass or weeds over eight inches high, which shall be covered separately below,
the Department may:
   (A)   Issue an order to the owner of the property housing the nuisance
requiring action to be taken to remove the public nuisance and bring the
property into compliance. Said order must be given in accordance with §
90.17 of this chapter. The order must contain:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued;
      (2)   The address or the tax parcel number of the property that is the
subject of the order;
      (3)   The action the order requires;
      (4)   The period of time of at least ten days in which the action is
required to be accomplished, measured from the time when the notice of the
order is given;
      (5)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
Department if this order is not complied with; and
      (6)   A statement indicating the obligation created by this subchapter
relating notification of subsequent interest holders and enforcement authority;
and
      (7)   The name, address and telephone number of the Department.
   (B)   In addition to an order, the Department may, at the sole discretion of
the Department, also issue a citation to the owner of the property housing the
nuisance for each violation.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(2))
§ 90.17  SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Methods of service.
      (1)   Citations, warnings, orders, notice of continued hearings, notice
of a statement that public bids are to be let, and notice of claims for payment
(the “documentation”) must be given by either:
         (a)   Sending a copy of the documentation by registered or certified
mail to the residence or place of business or employment of the person to be
notified, with return receipt requested;
         (b)   Delivering a copy of the documentation at the property or usual
place of residence of the person to be notified; or
         (c)   Leaving a copy of the documentation at the property or usual
place of residence of the person to be notified.
      (2)   When service is made by any of the means described, the person
making service must make an affidavit stating that he or she has made the
service, the manner in which service was made, to whom the documentation was
issued, the nature of the documentation and the date of service. The affidavit
must be placed on file with the Department.
   (B)   Service not obtained. If, after a reasonable effort, service is not
obtained by means described above, service may be made by publishing a notice
of the documentation in the applicable public newspaper in the county where the
property housing the nuisance is located. Publication may be made on
consecutive days. If service of the documentation is made by publication, the
publication must include the information required by §
90.16 of this chapter and must also include a statement indicating generally
what action is required by the order and that the exact terms of the order may
be obtained from the Department.
   (C)   Effective date. The date when the documentation is considered given is
as follows.
      (1)   If the documentation is delivered personally or left at the
dwelling or usual place of residence, notice is considered given on the day
when the order or statement is delivered to the person or left at his or her
dwelling or usual place of residence.
      (2)   If the documentation is mailed, notice is considered given on the
date shown on the return receipt or, if no date is shown, on the date when the
return receipt is received by the Department.
      (3)   Notice by publication is considered given on the date of the second
day that publication was made.
   (D)   Repeat offender. If a person repeats a violation (such as grass and
weeds and the like) within a one-year period: the officer shall issue a
citation and the matter shall be set for hearing as provided herein.  Said
violation shall be subject to all provisions provided in §
90.99, including attorney fees and costs of collection for said citation.  Said
citations shall be issued in an amount consistent with §
90.99 below.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(3))  (Ord. 2020-09-21(C), passed 9-25-2020)
§ 90.18  HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   If a person fails to comply with an order by the deadline
established in the order, or a person has been issued a citation by the
Department, a hearing must be held no earlier than ten days after notice of the
order or citation is given.
      (2)   The hearing shall be conducted by the Enforcement Board.
   (B)   The person to whom the order and/or citation was issued, any person
having a substantial property interest in the property that is the subject of
the order, or any other person with an interest in the proceedings may appear
in person or by counsel at the hearing. Each person appearing at the hearing is
entitled to present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses and present
arguments.
   (C)   At the conclusion of any hearing where a continuance is not granted,
the Enforcement Board shall make findings and take action to:
      (1)   Affirm, rescind or modify the order; and
      (2)   Affirm, rescind and/or suspend the citation penalties for a period
of time while an individual is taking action as instructed by the order.
   (D)   The record of the findings made and action taken by the Enforcement
Board at the hearing shall be available to the public upon request. However,
neither the Department, nor the Enforcement Board, is required to give any
person notice of finding and action.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(4))
§ 90.19  JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   An action taken under §
90.18 of this chapter is subject to review by the Circuit or Superior Court of
the county where the property is located, on the request of:
      (1)   Any person who has a substantial property interest in the property
that is the subject of the public nuisance order; or
      (2)   Any person to whom the order was issued.
   (B)   A person requesting judicial review under this section must file a
verified complaint including the findings and the action taken by the
Enforcement Board. The complaint must be filed within ten days of the
Enforcement Board’s official action.
   (C)   An appeal under this section is an action de novo. The court may
affirm, modify or reverse the action taken by the Enforcement Board.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(5))
§ 90.20  ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER.
   (A)   Removal of nuisances other than junk vehicles; action to bring
compliance. The Department may take action so as to bring the property within
compliance by means of Department resources or by a private contractor based on
quotations received from a list of contractors approved to do such work by the
Department. Notices of work to be performed must be given to all persons with a
substantial interest in the property housing the nuisance at least ten days
prior to the performance of the work. This notice must include a statement that
an amount representing a reasonable estimate of cost incurred by the Department
in processing the matter and performing the work, if not paid, will be recorded
as a lien against all persons having a fee interest or life estate interest in
the property. If action is being taken under this section on the basis of an
order that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve the statement
that the Department intends to perform work by publication.
   (B)   Removal of junk vehicles.
      (1)   Action to bring compliance. The Department may remove junk vehicles
so as to bring the property within compliance by means of Department resources
or by a private contractor based on quotations received from a list of
contractors approved to do such work by the Department. Notices of work to be
performed must be given to all persons with a substantial interest in the
property housing the nuisance and the owner of the junk vehicle, if known, at
least ten days prior to the performance of the work. This notice must include a
statement that an amount representing a reasonable estimate of cost incurred by
the Department in processing the matter and performing the work, if not paid,
will be recorded as a lien against all persons having a fee interest or life
estate interest in the property. If action is being taken under this section on
the basis of an order that was served by publication, it is sufficient to serve
the statement that the Department intends to perform work by publication.
      (2)   Procedure for removal of junk vehicles.
         (a)   The enforcement officer shall cause the vehicle to be towed to a
storage area.
         (b)   Within 72 hours after removal of a junk vehicle to a storage
area, the enforcement officer shall forward to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
(“Bureau”) a vehicle report containing the make, model, identification number,
license plate number and any other description of the vehicle. The vehicle
report should contain a request that the Bureau advise the enforcement officer
of the name and most recent address of the person who owns or holds a lien on
the vehicle.
         (c)   The enforcement officer shall then by first class mail notify
the property owner and, if known, the person who owns the vehicle, with a copy
to each person who holds alien on the vehicle that the vehicle has been towed
(the “notice of towing”). Said notice of towing should indicate that the
vehicle has been towed and impounded at a certain location and must be removed
within 30 days after the date of the mailing of the notice of towing and advise
that the vehicle will be disposed of after that time. The notice of towing
should also advise the person who owns or holds alien on the vehicle that all
costs incurred in removing and storing the vehicle are the person’s legal
responsibility.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(6))
§ 90.21  COSTS OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   Costs for nuisances other than junk vehicles.
      (1)   When action required by an order is performed by the Department or
by a contractor acting under this subchapter, each person who holds a fee
interest or life estate interest in the cited property from the time when the
order requiring the work performed was issued to the time that the work was
completed is jointly and severally responsible for the following costs:
         (a)   The actual cost of the work performed by the Department and/or
the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor;
         (b)   The administrative cost to process an order that was performed
by the Department, including, but not limited to, the following: cost to
determine persons with substantial property interest, cost of notices, cost to
secure bids, cost of hearings, enforcement officer wages, salaries of employees
and any cost of paper, office supplies and office area;
         (c)   All legal fees incurred in the enforcement of this subchapter;
and
         (d)   All costs associated with the collection of the amount of the
penalties incurred under any citation.
      (2)   The Department shall issue the owner of the property a bill for the
work completed, penalties incurred, as well as notice that the owner is
entitled to a hearing on the amounts indicated.
      (3)   If, within 30 days after the notice required above, a person named
in the record files with the clerk of the court in the county where the
property is located a written petition objecting to the claim for payment and
requesting a hearing, the clerk shall enter the cause on the docket of the
circuit or superior court as a civil action and a hearing shall be held on the
question.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the court shall either sustain
the petition or enter a judgment against the persons named in the record for
the amounts recorded or for modified amounts. A judgment entered shall become a
lien on the property housing the nuisance or be enforceable as otherwise
provided by law.
      (5)   If no petition is filed, after 30 days from issuing the bill, the
enforcement officer may:
         (a)   Record documentation with the County Recorder that states the
name or names of the owner(s) of the property housing the nuisance, a
description of the property as shown on the records of the County Auditor and
the amount of the delinquent fees. The amount of the delinquent fees or
penalties, including any accrued interest, shall then constitute a lien on the
property housing the nuisance and such lien shall be placed on the tax
duplicate by the County Auditor and shall be collected in the same manner as
delinquent taxes are collected; or
         (b)   Seek reimbursement as otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   Costs for removal of junk vehicles.
      (1)   When action to remove a junk vehicle required by an order is
performed by the Department or by a contractor acting under this subchapter,
each person who holds a fee interest or life estate interest in the cited
property from the time when the order requiring the work performed was issued
to the time that the work was completed, as well as the owner of the vehicle,
is jointly and severally responsible for the following costs:
         (a)   The actual cost of the work performed by the Department and/or
the bid price of work accomplished by the contractor to remove and store the
vehicle;
         (b)   The administrative cost to process an order that was performed
by the Department, including, but not limited to, the following: cost to
determine persons with substantial property interest, cost of notices, cost to
secure bids, cost of hearings, enforcement officer wages, salaries of employees
and any cost of paper, office supplies and office area;
         (c)   All legal fees incurred in the enforcement of this subchapter;
and
         (d)   All costs associated with the collection of the amount of the
penalties incurred under any citation.
      (2)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the storage site within 30 days after the mailing of the
notice of towing and pays all costs incurred against the vehicle at that time,
the vehicle shall be released. The enforcement officer shall notify the Bureau
of all releases. Each release shall state the name, signature and address of
the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle or parts, a description of
the vehicle, the costs and the date of release.
      (3)   If the person who owns or holds a lien upon the vehicle does not
appear within 30 days after the mailing of the notice of towing, the
enforcement officer may sell the vehicle. If the Department estimates that the
vehicle has a value of less than $500 or, if the vehicle is in such a condition
that the vehicle identification numbers or other means of identification are
not available to determine the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle,
the vehicle may be disposed of as the Department deems appropriate. Otherwise,
the vehicle may be sold to the highest bidder at a public sale. Notice of the
sale shall be given by publication in one newspaper one week before the sale.
      (4)   The proceeds from the sale of a junk vehicle shall be applied to
costs of removal, storage and administrative costs, legal fees incurred by the
Department and penalties. Any remaining proceeds shall be remitted to the
vehicle owner. If an outstanding balance exists after such sale, the Department
shall issue the owner of the property and the owner of the junk vehicle a bill
for the work completed, legal fees, penalties incurred, as well as notice that
the owner of the property and owner of the junk vehicle is entitled to a
hearing on the amounts indicated.
      (5)   If, within 30 days after the notice required above, a person named
in the record files with the clerk of the court in the county where the
property is located a written petition objecting to the claim for payment and
requesting a hearing, the clerk shall enter the cause on the docket of the
circuit or superior court as a civil action and a hearing shall be held on the
question.
      (6)   Issues that could have been determined under §
90.18 of this chapter may not be entertained at this hearing. At the conclusion
of the hearing, the court shall either sustain the petition or enter a judgment
against the persons named in the record for the amounts recorded or for
modified amounts. A judgment entered shall become a lien on the property
housing the nuisance or be enforceable as otherwise provided by law.
      (7)   If no petition is filed, after 30 days from issuing the bill, the
enforcement officer may:
         (a)   Record documentation with the County Recorder that states the
name or names of the owner(s) of the property housing the nuisance, a
description of the property as shown on the records of the County Auditor and
the amount of the delinquent fees. The amount of the delinquent fees or
penalties, including any accrued interest, shall then constitute a lien on the
property housing the nuisance and such lien shall be placed on the tax
duplicate by the County Auditor and shall be collected in the same manner as
delinquent taxes are collected; or
         (b)   Seek reimbursement from the property owner or vehicle owner as
otherwise provided by law.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(7))
§ 90.22  NOTICE NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Notice of orders, notice of continued hearings, and notice of a
statement that public bids are to be let need not be given to a person holding
a property interest in an unabated public nuisance if:
      (1)   No instrument reflecting the property interest held by the person
is recorded in the Recorder’s office of the county where the public nuisance is
located; or
      (2)   The enforcement officer has received neither written information
nor actual notice of the identity of the person who holds a property interest
in the public nuisance.
   (B)   A person who fails to record an instrument reflecting an interest in
property subject to an order is considered to consent to action taken under
this subchapter relative to which notice would otherwise be given.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(8))
§ 90.23  TRANSFER OF PROPERTY.
   A person who has been issued and has received notice of an order relative to
a public nuisance and has not complied with that order:
   (A)   Must supply full information regarding the order to a person who takes
or agrees to take a substantial property interest in the cited property before
transferring or agreeing to transfer that interest; and
   (B)   Must, within five days after transferring or agreeing to transfer a
substantial property interest in the cited property, supply the enforcement
authority with written copies of the full name, address and telephone number of
the person taking a substantial property interest in the cited property; and
the legal instrument under which the transfer or agreement to transfer the
substantial property interest is accomplished.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(9))
§ 90.24  CONFLICT OF LAW.
   (A)   No part of this subchapter shall be interpreted to conflict with
federal, state or local laws and all reasonable efforts should be made to
harmonize the same. Should any section or part thereof of this subchapter be
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of this subchapter as a whole, or any portion
thereof other than that portion so declared to be invalid, and for this purpose
the provisions of this subchapter are hereby declared to be severable.
   (B)   Provisions of prior ordinances that are in conflict with this
subchapter are hereby repealed.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(10))
§ 90.25  EFFECT.
   The express or implied repeal or amendment by this subchapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or procedures begun prior to the
effective date of this subchapter. Those rights, liabilities and proceedings
are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed
or amended ordinance as if this subchapter had not been adopted.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(11))
§ 90.26  FEES.
   For fees associated with any provision of the this chapter which permits the
town to correct a deficiency or nuisance, the fee assessed shall be two and
one-half times the hourly rate of town employees involved in the work times the
number of hours expended by said employees and any hard costs associated with
said work. These costs shall become a lien against the property, as provided in
the town code, and the town shall be entitled to reimbursement of its
attorneys’ fees and costs of collection expended.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(13))
§ 90.27  CITATION FOR OVERGROWN GRASS.
   The process for dealing with grass and weeds shall be expedited because of
the nature of its growth as follows:
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-3, notice by the Town Marshal shall be by
personal service of the citation or posting on main door of any structure on
property, and first class mail.  The Marshal shall make an affidavit pursuant
to §
90.17.  The notice shall be in the form provided under section §
90.17.  A continuous abatement notice pursuant to I.C. 36-7-10.1-3 may also be
posted on the property and served pursuant to said statute.
   (B)   If after ten days the problem is not corrected, fine paid, and/or
hearing requested with the Enforcement Board, notice will be given by personal
service or posting and certified mail to the address listed in the County
Auditor's Office as responsible for tax bills; that if property is not mowed
within 15 days, town will correct the problem/mow; charge for its costs and
place a lien on the property, or file suit, all as provided in I.C. 36-7-10.1-
4.
   (C)   If the town incurs costs remaining unpaid after 30 days of notice, the
town may pursue legal action and shall recover all costs incurred, including
attorney fees, as provided in I.C. 36-7-10.1-4.
(Ord. 2020-09-21(C), passed 9-25-2020)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 90.40  ADOPTION OF LAW.
   The town hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-9, which establishes the state’s Unsafe
Building Law and explicitly incorporate by reference the definition of
“substantial property interest” found in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
(2014 Code, § D2.2(1))
§ 90.41  DEPARTMENT OF UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes the Department of Unsafe Structures. The
Town Manager shall serve as the chief administrative officer of the Department
of Unsafe Structures. The purpose of the Department will be to administer this
subchapter and ensure compliance with I.C. 36-7-9.
(2014 Code, § D2.2(2))
   (B)   The Department of Unsafe Structures shall be the executive department
authorized to administer this subchapter.
(2014 Code, § D2.2(3))
§ 90.42  STATE STATUTES.
   Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute as amended from time
to time, or any similar statutory provision that may supersede it relating to
the same or similar subject matter.
(2014 Code, § D2.2(4))
§ 90.43  HEARING AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council shall annually appoint an independent party, licensed to
practice law in the state, as the hearing authority. No one who is employed by
the enforcement authority may be designated as a hearing authority.
(2014 Code, § D2.2(5))
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.01 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney
fees and costs of collection. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(2014 Code, § D2.3(6))
   (C)   Any subsequent violations of §
90.02 of this chapter within the same calendar year will be considered a Class
C infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $50 per violation, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of
collection.
(2014 Code, § D2.5(1))
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.16 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in the amount as provided below $250, plus any and all
attorney fees and costs of collection.
         (b)   The applicable fine amount for a first-time offense under this
ordinance may be waived by the Department if said violation is remedied within
five days of notice thereof, waiver is not available for any subsequent offense
thereafter.
         (c)   Each nuisance shall constitute a separate violation and each day
that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   (a)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.26 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount as provided for each specific violation below,
plus any and all attorney fees and costs of collection.
            1.   Litter: $250;
            2.   Grass and weeds over eight inches high, but not including
small trees and bushes: $250;
            3.   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items and tires and
the like, but not stock or inventory used in conducting agricultural activities
in a properly zoned area: $500;
            4.   Demolition remains: $250;
            5.   Accumulated garbage and trash: $500;
            6.   Vehicle parts and scrap metal (including, but not limited to,
those defined at I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq.): $500;
            7.   Structures defaced with paint or graffiti: $100;
            8.   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, rubbish, human
excrement, which is deposited, allowed or caused to be upon any public or
private property: $500;
            9.   The construction of, or the placement of any structure or
materials within the drainage way of any right-of-way that will prevent the
natural flow of water and cause it to collect and pool upon any private or
public property: $250;
            10.   Any dead domestic or wild animal: $500;
            11.   Any real or personal property that is infected with
contagious disease and is likely to cause an immediate health hazard: $500;
            12.   The placing or accumulating on or within any real or personal
property or the permitting of same, of any matter which attracts or may attract
rodents, insects, domestic or wild animals in such a manner as to create a
health hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition: $500;
            13.   Trees, shrubbery, weeds, or other matter obstructing public
ways, or causing visual barriers which create vehicular traffic or pedestrian
safety hazards: $100;
            14.   The unauthorized placement of fences, signs, shrubbery or
barriers within road right-of-ways: $100;
            15.   Junk vehicles as defined by §§
90.15 through
90.26 of this chapter, due to the danger to public health from vermin and
insects that inhabit such vehicles, and the danger to safety of children
attracted by such vehicles, except in lawfully operated junkyards that have
been properly zoned and licensed: $250; and
            16.   Industrial machinery, unless located on land that is properly
zoned for such use and owned by persons actively engaged in industry: $500.
         (b)   Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(2014 Code, § D2.1(12))
   (E)   Violations of §§
90.40 through
90.43 of this chapter shall be addressed as established in I.C. 36-7-9 as it
may be amended from time to time.
(2014 Code, § D2.2(6))
(Ord. 2014-6-2-C, passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 2020-09-21(C), passed 9-25-2020)
CHAPTER 91:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy statement
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practice
   
91.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
91.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
91.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
91.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
91.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
91.09   Exemptions
   
91.10   Administrative enforcement
§ 91.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601
et seq., the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(2014 Code, § E2.12(1))
§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The state’s Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under the state statute.
      (2)   The term disability shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance; nor does the term DISABILITY include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
91.04, 91.05, 91.06, 91.07 or 91.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with: a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person;
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined herein.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, limited liability
companies, mutual companies, joint stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated
organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(2014 Code, § E2.12(2))
§ 91.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (A)(2) below, §
91.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
91.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (A)(2) below and I.C.
22-9.5-3;
      (2)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
91.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
         (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that, in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
91.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings contained living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (B)   For the purposes of division (A)(2) above, a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(2014 Code, § E2.12(3))
§ 91.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
91.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
91.03(A)(2) and 91.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)    To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available; and
   (E)   (1)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin:
         (a)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
            1.   The buyer or renter;
            2.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
            3.   Any person associated with that person.
         (b)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
            1.   The person;
            2.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
            3.   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (E), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after 9-
13-1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a manner
that;
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.    Reinforcements in bath-rooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (3)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physically disabled people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (E)(2)(c)3. above.
      (4)   Nothing in this division (E) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(2014 Code, § E2.12(4))  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance;
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(2014 Code, § E2.12(5))  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
(2014 Code, § E2.12(6))  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any other
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
91.03,
91.04,
91.05 or
91.06 of this chapter.
(2014 Code, § E2.12(7))  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities as described in this chapter;
or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if
death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(2014 Code, § E2.12(8))  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin; nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons.
   (D)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state’s Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(2014 Code, § E2.12(1))
§ 91.10  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief
elected official of the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town or the chief elected officials
designee shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(2014 Code, § E2.12(10))
CHAPTER 92:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fireworks
   
92.02   Automatic systems
Open Burning
   
92.15   Definition
   
92.16   Prohibited behavior
   
92.17   Exemptions
   
92.18   Allowed burning
   
92.19   Conditions applying to all exemptions and variances
   
92.20   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to cause to be discharged, lit or used fireworks
in the streets, alleys, or thoroughfares of the town or upon property owned by
the town or any other area owned by the town or any town committee, department
or agency, unless same is a park or other area containing over one acre of
ground and such area has been designated as a special discharge location, or
the use has been approved by special permit issued by the Clerk- Treasurer of
the Town Council.
(2014 Code, § D2.6(1))
   (B)   Fireworks displays shall be allowed within the town on certain
national holidays during the hours designated by state law pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 22-11-14-10.5 et al.
(2014 Code, § D2.6(2))
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  AUTOMATIC SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRE DISTRICT. The normal fire protection district incorporated area
covered by the town’s Fire Department.
      FIRE OFFICIAL. The Fire Chief or his or her designee.
      KEY BOX. A UL “Listed” box, size and style, approved by the Fire Official
that meets the requirements and uses the same security key code adopted by the
Fire Department.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The person(s) charged with the responsibility for the
occupancy, building or business owner.
      SECURITY CAP. A Fire Department connection (FDC) plug and cap approved
for use in the town by the Fire Official utilizing the appropriate sized thread
pattern.
      SECURITY PADLOCK. A padlock approved by the Fire Official that utilizes
the approved key code utilized by the Fire Department.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Mandatory key boxes for fire suppression and standpipe systems.
When a building within the Fire District is protected by an automatic fire
suppression and/or standpipe system, it shall be equipped with a key box,
installed at a location approved by the Fire Official.
      (2)   Mandatory key boxes for automatic alarm systems. When a building is
protected by an automatic alarm system and or access to or within a building,
or an area within that building, is unduly difficult because of secured
openings, and where immediate access is necessary for life saving or
firefighting purposes, it shall be equipped with a key box, to be installed at
a location approved by the Fire Official.
      (3)   Mandatory storage cabinet. In occupancies storing or dispensing
hazardous materials, a hazardous materials cabinet may be required. This
cabinet will serve to store MSDS and other information as required.
      (4)   Automatic gates. When a property is accessed through a gate or
cross arm that impedes ingress through required fire lanes by means of a key or
swipe card, it shall be equipped with a key switch to be installed at a
location approved by the Fire Official.
      (5)   Security padlock. When a property is protected by a locked fence or
gate and where immediate access to the property is necessary for life saving
and firefighting purposes, it shall be equipped with a security padlock to be
installed at a location approved by the Fire Official. It shall then be the
responsibility of the responsible party to see that the fence or gate is
secured properly so that the security padlock is accessible.
      (6)   Construction sites.
         (a)   When a construction site is to be secured by a locked fence or
gate, that site will fall under division (B)(5) above, during the duration of
construction or until said fence or gate is removed.
         (b)   The security padlock will be obtained by placing a security
deposit with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town in an amount set to cover
replacement of security padlock should it be lost or damaged.
         (c)   Once the deposit has been made, a Fire Official will come to the
construction site and explain the use of the security padlock.
         (d)   It shall then be the responsibility of the construction company
to see that the fence or gate is secured properly so that the security padlock
is accessible.
      (7)   Security of Fire Department connections. When a building is
protected by an automatic sprinkler and/or standpipe system and the Fire
Department connection is exposed to vandalism, the Fire Official may require
that a security cap be installed.
      (8)   Non-applicability to particular dwellings. This section shall not
apply to owner occupied one- and two-family dwellings. Owners of single- and
two-family occupancies are encouraged to participate voluntarily utilizing a
residential security box.
      (9)   Key box contents. The key boxes shall contain, but not be limited
to the following items as designated by the Fire Official:
         (a)   Labeled keys to locked points of egress, whether in interior or
exterior of such buildings;
         (b)   Labeled keys to the locked mechanical rooms;
         (c)   Labeled keys to any fence or secured areas not covered in
divisions (B)(4), (B)(5) or (B)(6) above;
         (d)   Labeled keys to any other areas that may be required by the Fire
Official;
         (e)   A card containing the emergency contact people and phone numbers
for each occupancy;
         (f)   Floor plans of the rooms within the building may also be
required, showing locations of shut offs; and
         (g)   Hazardous materials MSDS, as required.
      (10)   Alert decals. Alert decals, approved by the Fire Official, to
alert fire companies of the presence of security features covered by this
ordinance, will be displayed on any outside doors or windows as designated by
the Fire Official.
      (11)   Compliance.
         (a)   All newly constructed buildings, not yet occupied or builds
currently under construction and all buildings or businesses applying for a
certificate of occupancy, and/or building permits will be required to comply
with this section.
         (b)   The cost of purchasing and installing, along with any cost
associated with implementation of the program at a specific property, will be
born by the responsible party.
      (12)   Non-compliance.
         (a)   Non-compliance with this section will subject the responsible
party to citations.
         (b)   Continued non-compliance may result in mandatory appearance in
court.
      (13)   Return of keys. Four months following passage of this section, all
keys currently in possession of the Fire Department will be returned to the
responsible party.
(Ord. 2020-01-06, passed 1-6-2020)
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.15  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air, without passing
through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
(2014 Code, § D2.4(1))
§ 92.16  PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow or maintain any form of open
burning of any materials on private or public property, except as specifically
authorized by this subchapter. No person shall allow the accumulation or
existence of combustible material that constitutes or contributes to open
burning.
(2014 Code, § D2.4(2))  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following types of burning are allowed:
      (1)   The burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood and other cooking
fuels customarily used in an outdoor grill or traditional food cooking devices;
      (2)   Campfires until midnight; and
      (3)   Fires used for recreational or ceremonial purposes such as school
pep rally fires or the celebration of Scout activities. Recreational or
ceremonial fires shall meet the following conditions.
         (a)   Only clean, untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper or
petroleum products can be used for ignition purposes only.
         (b)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
         (c)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet (for
example: 10 ft. x 10 ft. x 10 ft.).
         (d)   The local Fire Department shall be notified 24 hours in advance
if the pile to be burned is more than 125 cubic feet (for example: 5 ft. x 5
ft. x 5 ft).
         (e)   The fire shall not be for disposal purposes.
         (f)   The fire shall not be within 500 feet of a pipeline or fuel
storage area.
(2014 Code, § D2.4(3))
   (B)   All exemptions under division (A) above shall be subject to the
following.
      (1)   Only wood products or products derived from wood shall be burned
unless otherwise stated above.
      (2)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
      (3)   Recreational fires in city parks shall be subject to the rules and
regulations of the Park Department.
      (4)   If fires create a nuisance or a fire hazard, they shall be
extinguished immediately.
      (5)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions, such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation and the
like.
      (6)   No fire shall contain or consume items which will naturally result
in noxious fumes or excessive smoke.
      (7)   Burning shall not be conducted within 30 feet of a building located
on adjacent property.
(2014 Code, § D2.4(4))
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18  ALLOWED BURNING.
   Burning with prior approval of the Fire Department consistent with 326
I.A.C. 4-1 shall be allowed for the following:
   (A)   Emergency burning of spilled petroleum products when all reasonable
efforts to recover the spilled material have been made and failure to burn
would result in an imminent fire hazard or water pollution problem;
   (B)   Burning of refuse consisting of material resulting from a natural
disaster;
   (C)   Burning for the purpose of fire training;
   (D)   Burning of natural growth derived from a clearing operation (i.e.,
removal of natural growth for change in use of the land); and
   (E)   Burning of highly explosive or other dangerous materials for which no
alternative disposal method exists or where transportation of such materials is
impossible.
(2014 Code, § D2.4(5))
§ 92.19  CONDITIONS APPLYING TO ALL EXEMPTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   The following conditions apply to all exemptions and variances.
   (A)   Burning shall be done during safe weather conditions. Burning shall
not occur during high winds, temperature inversions, air stagnation or when a
pollution alert or ozone action day has been declared.
   (B)   Fires must be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
   (C)   Fires must be extinguished if they create a fire hazard, nuisance,
pollution problem or threat to public health.
   (D)   Firefighting equipment adequate for the size of the fire shall be on-
site and nearby during times of burning.
   (E)   Burning shall not be for disposal purposes.
   (F)   All burning shall comply with other federal, state and local laws,
rules and ordinances.
(2014 Code, § D2.4(6))  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20  ENFORCEMENT.
   The open burning provisions are enforceable by the duly appointed Fire Chief
or law enforcement officers within the town acting on his or her own initiative
or at the request of the Town Council.
(2014 Code, § D2.4(8))
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
92.01 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, plus any and all attorneys’
fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D2.6(3))
   (C)   Any person found in violation of §§
92.15 through
92.20 of this chapter shall be subject to the following procedures.
      (1)   The town’s Fire and Police Department shall issue a warning notice
to a first time violator, stating that he or she is in violation. The person
must then correct the violation by immediately extinguishing the fire. Any
person violating the provisions of this division (C) by failure or refusal to
immediately extinguish the fire commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, plus any and all
attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
      (2)   Failure or refusal by the violator to immediately extinguish the
fire in violation of §§
92.15 through
92.20 of this chapter shall also result in the Fire Department having the
authority to go upon private property to extinguish said fire.
      (3)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing or allowing of a new
fire after a warning notice or citation has been issued shall be considered a
separate offense.
      (4)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible
material which constitutes or contributes to open burning may not refute
liability for violation of §§
92.15 through
92.20 of this chapter on the basis that said fire was set by vandals,
accidental or act of God.
(2014 Code, § D2.4(7))
CHAPTER 93:  ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Dogs to be leashed
Pet Waste
   
93.15   Purpose
   
93.16   Definitions
   
93.17   Disposal requirement
   
93.18   Duty to possess removal equipment
   
93.19   Exemptions
   
93.20   Enforcement
Dangerous and Vicious Animals
   
93.35   License required
   
93.36   Appeal; fee
   
93.37   Licensing requirements
   
93.38   Confinement
   
93.39   Permit tag
   
93.40   License number
   
93.41   Reporting lost dog; running at large; leash
   
93.42   Posting signs
   
93.43   Persons and organizations not allowed to own
   
93.44   Inspection
   
93.45   Exemptions
   
93.46   Impoundment
   
93.47   Fighting
   
93.48   Possession of animals
   
93.49   Enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  DOGS TO BE LEASHED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful in the town to leave one’s own private property,
and to have on public property of the town or private property of another, any
dog, unless same is restrained upon an appropriate leash; provided further
that, any dog or other animal over 50 pounds shall be retained on a leash not
more than three feet in length, and made of a chain or other material of
similar tensile strength, so as to secure that said animal will not be able to
get free or leave the immediate accompaniment of the individual responsible for
said animal.
(2014 Code, § D3.1(1))
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful in the town to have any dog or animal over
50 pounds on any street fair midway (i.e., Corn School, Liberty Days) unless
said animal is tethered by an appropriate leash not more than three feet in
length, and has been fitted with a muzzle sufficient to keep said animal from
biting an individual or any other animal.
      (2)   The use of the term MIDWAY shall include any/all areas utilized by
the street fair for purposes of display, rides or other fair related
activities.
(2014 Code, § D3.1(2))
Penalty, see §
93.99
PET WASTE
§ 93.15  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish requirements for the proper
disposal of pet solid waste in the town, so as to protect public health, safety
and welfare and to prescribe penalties for failure to comply.
(Ord. 2018-03-19(B), passed 3-19-2018)
§ 93.16  DEFINITIONS.
   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future, words used in the plural number include the singular
number, and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The
word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory. For the purpose of
this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMMEDIATE. The pet solid waste is removed at once, without delay.
   OWNER/KEEPER. Any person who shall possess, maintain, house or harbor any
pet or otherwise have custody of any pet, whether or not the owner of such pet.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm, association
or political subdivision of the state subject to municipal jurisdiction.
   PET. A domesticated animal (other than a disability assistance animal) kept
for amusement or companionship.
   PET SOLID WASTE. Waste matter expelled from the bowels of the pet;
excrement.
   PROPER DISPOSAL. Placement in a suitable container, and discarded in a
refuse container which is regularly emptied by the municipality or some other
refuse collector; or disposal into a system designed to convey domestic sewage
for proper treatment and disposal.
   REMOVAL EQUIPMENT. Any tool, implement or other device carried for the
purpose of picking up and contain pet waste.
(Ord. 2018-03-19(B), passed 3-19-2018)
§ 93.17  DISPOSAL REQUIREMENT.
   All pet owners and keepers are required to immediately and properly dispose
of their pets’ solid waste deposited on any property, public or private, not
owned or possessed by that person, absent the owner’s consent, excepting all
public roadways and/or public streets.
(Ord. 2018-03-19(B), passed 3-19-2018)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18  DUTY TO POSSESS REMOVAL EQUIPMENT.
   All pet owners and keepers are required to possess means of removal of their
pets’ solid pet waste at all times while present with said pet on any property,
public or private, not owned or possessed by that person, absent the owner’s
consent.
(Ord. 2018-03-19(B), passed 3-19-2018)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any owner or keeper who requires the use of a disability assistance
service animal shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter while
such animal is being used for that purpose. This exemption does not apply to
therapy animals and/or emotional support animals.
   (B)   On-duty law enforcement officers operating with K-9 animals shall also
be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter while such personnel and
animal are engaged in law enforcement duty.
(Ord. 2018-03-19(B), passed 3-19-2018)
§ 93.20  ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Town Marshal.
(Ord. 2018-03-19(B), passed 3-19-2018)
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 93.35  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A person shall not own, harbor, possess or keep a vicious or dangerous dog
or other animal unless such animal is licensed under this section or an
application for licensing of such animal under this section is pending. A
VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL is any animal that has attacked or made threatening
action toward another domesticated animal or person, whether provoked or
otherwise, in a manner the Town Marshal deems to be dangerous to persons or
their animals. Any animal that has bitten or attempted to bite an individual,
or attacked or killed another domestic animal away from its owner’s premises
shall be presumed vicious or dangerous.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(1))
   (B)   If a vicious or dangerous dog or other animal permit is revoked, the
owner shall not be reissued another permit.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(11))
   (C)   If the Town Marshal or Town Clerk- Treasurer is notified of an address
where a vicious or dangerous dog or other animal is being kept or harbored, and
that animal and owner of the property has not been in violation of any section
of this subchapter, the owner shall have a maximum of 14 days to obtain the
vicious or dangerous dog or other animal permit. If the permit is not obtained
within the 14 days, the animal shall be impounded. The animal will then be held
a maximum of ten days so that a permit can be issued. If a permit is still not
obtained, the animal shall be euthanized.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(13))
   (D)   In the event that a vicious or dangerous dog or other animal changes
owner, the new owner must apply for a new permit. The original owner’s permit
shall not be transferable to the new owner. The original owner shall notify the
Town Clerk-Treasurer that the animal has been sold or given away.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(15))
   (E)   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall expire December 31 of
each year.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(17))
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36  APPEAL; FEE.
   Any person whose pet has been determined to be a dangerous animal may file
an appeal within 48 hours after such determination. The appeal shall be in
writing, accompanied with a non-refundable appeal fee of $25, and be directed
to the Town Marshal and Town Clerk-Treasurer. In lieu of an appeal, an
individual may present to the Town Clerk-Treasurer certification that the
subject animal has, within the last ten days, completed the Canine Good Citizen
Test by an AKC certified tester and been certified a Canine Good Citizen. The
Town Council reserves the right to consider other similar testing on a case by
case basis.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(2))
§ 93.37  LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any owner of a vicious or dangerous dog or other animal shall apply to
the Town Clerk- Treasurer for licensing of said animal.
   (B)   The application shall be on a form provided by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer and shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A valid driver’s license or state issued picture identification
showing the owner’s name and current address;
      (2)   Proof that the applicant owns said animal and is 18 years of age or
older;
      (3)   One copy of a registration certificate issued for said animal by
the AKC and/or ADBA, if available and applicable;
      (4)   One copy of the current immunization and health records for said
animal showing that the animal received a current rabies vaccination by a
licensed veterinarian;
      (5)   Proof that the applicant has insurance coverage for not less than
$300,000 for any injury, damage or loss caused by said animal;
      (6)   Four photographs of said animal from four different sides taken not
more than one month before the date of the application. Such photographs shall
consist of a front, back, left and right side view of the animal;
      (7)   Proof that the animal has been micro-chipped by a licensed
veterinarian; and
      (8)   The name, address and phone number of the animal’s previous owner,
if any.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(3))
§ 93.38  CONFINEMENT.
   The vicious or dangerous dog or other animal shall be confined, at all
times, within a habitable escape-proof dwelling or an escape-proof cage made of
at least 14-gauge wire with at least six feet high sides, a wood or wire roof,
and a brick or cement floor. The cage door also shall be locked with a padlock.
However, when such animal is not confined within a habitable dwelling or an
escape-proof cage, it shall be muzzled and reined or tethered to its master,
owner or keeper who shall maintain control over the animal to prevent injury to
any person or animal.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(4))  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.39  PERMIT TAG.
   The vicious or dangerous dog or other animal shall wear a permit tag issued
by the Town Clerk- Treasurer stating that the animal is registered as a vicious
or dangerous dog or other animal.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(5))
§ 93.40  LICENSE NUMBER.
   When licensing an animal not previously licensed under this section, the
Town Clerk-Treasurer or its designee shall assign a specific license number to
said animal, without duplication, which number shall remain the same for the
life of the animal.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(6))
§ 93.41  REPORTING LOST DOG; RUNNING AT LARGE; LEASH.
   (A)   If the animal is lost or escapes, the owner or owner’s agent shall
report said incident immediately to the Town Marshal and Town Clerk- Treasurer.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(7))
   (B)   The owner or owner’s agent of an animal required to be licensed under
this subchapter shall notify the Town Marshal within four hours if said animal
is running at large, has been stolen or has attacked a person or a domestic
animal.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(19))
   (C)   Any time an animal deemed to be dangerous or vicious leaves the
premises of its owner, it shall be leashed with a sufficiently strong leash no
more than three feet in length by an individual able to control said animal.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(21))
   (D)   Any dog or similar animal that is brought by its owner to the Corn
School or Liberty Days Street Fair shall be restrained by a leash of no more
than three feet in length and equipped with a muzzle.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(22))
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.42  POSTING SIGNS.
   The owner of a vicious or dangerous dog or other animal shall post signs on
his or her property where such animal will be kept, clearly visible for the
closest street, advising the general public about such animal’s presence on the
premises. Such signs shall be supplied by the Town Clerk-Treasurer after
applicant pays for the permit. The permit, however, shall not be issued until
the owner posts the signs, and the Town Marshal inspects the property to verify
proper posting of the signs. The cost of the signs is non-refundable and they
will belong to the applicant even if the permit is reissued or revoked.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(8))  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.43  PERSONS AND ORGANIZATIONS NOT ALLOWED TO OWN.
   (A)   No person shall be issued a vicious or dangerous dog or other animal
permit if they have been convicted of a felony.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(9))
   (B)   No permits shall be required for the following organizations or
animals:
      (1)   The Town or County Animal Control Agency;
      (2)   A state-licensed veterinary hospital/ clinic;
      (3)   Birds held under state or federal falconry permits; or
      (4)   Service dogs specifically trained to assist their disabled owner.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(20))
§ 93.44  INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall visually inspect the premises where the animal
is kept. The inspection will consist of the cage or, if there is no cage, the
officer will inspect the escape-proof habitat dwelling, doors, windows and
screen opening to determine if, in fact, they are escape-proof. Also, the
inspection will consist of the placement of warning signs, the animal leash,
the muzzle and the padlock for the cage. The Town Marshal must be satisfied
that the owner has met all licensing requirements before issuing or renewing a
permit.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(10))
   (B)   (1)   The owner of a vicious or dangerous dog or other animal shall
notify the Town Clerk-Treasurer if the address changes where the animal is
being kept.
      (2)   The owner must report the new address so an inspection can be made
of the premises.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(16))
§ 93.45  EXEMPTIONS.
   Duly authorized members of the Town Marshal’s office or other law
enforcement agencies, including, but not limited to, game wardens, conservation
officers, and other law enforcement officers shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section if the animal is used for law enforcement duties.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(12))
§ 93.46  IMPOUNDMENT.
   If the owner of a vicious or dangerous dog or other animal violates any
provisions of this subchapter, the animal shall be impounded immediately and
held until a hearing before the Town Council. At such hearing, the Council
shall determine whether in fact a violation of this subchapter has occurred. If
the Council determines that a violation of this subchapter has occurred, it
shall have the authority to impose a fine and/or order the animal euthanized. A
vicious or dangerous dog or other animal shall not be euthanized until after
the Council has rendered a final decision.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(14))
§ 93.47  FIGHTING.
   No person shall fight, bait, conspire to fight or bait or keep, train or
transport for the purpose of fighting or baiting, any animal required to be
licensed under this subchapter. A person who violates this section shall be
reported to the County Prosecutor’s office for prosecution under I.C. 35-46-3-
8 et seq.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(18))  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.48  POSSESSION OF ANIMALS.
   No resident of the town shall keep upon their property any more than four
domesticated animals, domesticated animals shall include all pets, dogs, cats,
or other similar animals. It shall be strictly forbidden for any individual
within the town to possess or harbor any animal, domesticated or otherwise,
referred to or known as a farm animal/livestock, as same is defined within the
county zoning and subdivision control ordinances.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.49  ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter may be enforced by any law enforcement officer or
Prosecuting Attorney. If enforced by the Town Attorney, costs of enforcement,
including reasonable attorneys’ fees, shall be reimbursed by any individual
found to have violated this subchapter.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(24))
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
93.01 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorney
fees and costs of collection. Any subsequent offense in a 12-month period shall
be deemed a Class A infraction subject to a fine not to exceed $100, plus any
and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D3.1(3))
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.20 of this chapter commits a Class D infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $25, plus any and all attorneys’
fees and costs of collection.
      (2)   Any subsequent violation thereafter within a calendar year shall be
subject to double the penalty set forth above as the total civil penalty, plus
any and all attorney fees and costs of collection.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to violate any provision of §§
93.35 through
93.48 of this chapter. Each day §§
93.35 through
93.48 are violated shall be deemed a separate Class A infraction offense and
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, plus
any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D3.2(23))
(Ord. 2018-03-19(B), passed 3-19-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SOLICITORS
      
111.   OFF-SITE FOOD SALES
      
112.   YARD AND GARAGE SALES
CHAPTER 110:  SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Title; purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   All solicitation prohibited by posting of “no solicitation” or “no
trespassing” sign
   
110.04   Permits and identification badge required for commercial solicitors
   
110.05   Application contents; fees
   
110.06   Duration of permit; renewal; denial
   
110.07   Persons prohibited
   
110.08   False or deceptive representation prohibited
   
110.09   Duty to display identification badge and to exhibit permit
   
110.10   Permissible times
   
110.11   Transfer of permits prohibited
   
110.12   Revocation of identification badge
   
110.13   Non-renewal or revocation of permit
   
110.14   Records
   
110.15   Appeal
   
110.16   Administrative regulations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  TITLE; PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this chapter are intended to balance the First Amendment
rights of residential solicitors in the town with the privacy, safety, health
and welfare of the citizens of the town by:
   (A)   Requiring all commercial solicitors to conduct any door-to-door
residential solicitation within the town pursuant to a permit and
identification badge issued by the town;
   (B)   Reasonably limiting the hours of door- to-door solicitation
activities; and
   (C)   Prohibiting door-to-door solicitation at residences where the owner or
occupant has prohibited solicitation in a manner consistent with the provisions
of this chapter.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(1))
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person or entity who has submitted an application for a
permit.
   COMMERCIAL SOLICITOR. Any person, whether as a volunteer, owner, agent,
consignee or employee, who engages in door-to-door commercial solicitation.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR NON-COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION. Attempting to make personal
contact with a resident at his or her residence, without prior specific
invitation or by appointment with the resident, for the primary purpose of:
      (1)   Seeking or asking for a gift or donation for a public entity or
non-profit organization exempt from federal income tax under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)
(3);
      (2)   Soliciting the sale of goods, wares or merchandise for present or
future delivery, or the sale of services to be performed immediately or in the
future, with the entire proceeds of such sale to be paid directly to or used
exclusively for the benefit of, a public entity or non-profit organization
exempt from federal income tax under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3);
      (3)   Personally delivering to the resident a handbill or flyer
advertising a future, not-for-profit event, activity, good or service;
      (4)   Proselytizing on behalf of a religious organization;
      (5)   Soliciting support for a political candidate or organization or
ballot measure or ideology;
      (6)   Soliciting the sale of newspaper or magazine subscriptions; and/or
      (7)   Soliciting by school children for educational, extracurricular or
personal non- commercial purposes.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION. Attempting to make personal contact with a
resident at his or her residence, without prior specific invitation by or by
appointment with the resident, for the primary purpose of:
      (1)   Attempting to sell, for present or future delivery, any goods,
wares or merchandise, other than newspaper or magazine subscriptions, or any
services to be performed immediately or in the future, whether or not the
person has, carries or exposes a sample of such goods, wares or merchandise,
and whether or not he or she is collecting advance payment for such sales; or
      (2)   Personally delivering to the resident a handbill or flyer
advertising a commercial event, activity, good or service that is offered to
the resident for purchase at a location away from the residence or at a future
time.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, company, corporation, business partnership,
organization or any other entity on behalf of whom a person is acting.
   NON-COMMERCIAL SOLICITOR. Any person, whether as a volunteer, owner, agent,
consignee or employee, who engages in door-to-door non-commercial solicitation.
   NO-SOLICITATION LIST. A list of the addresses of town residents who have
requested that their residences be placed on a list maintained and published by
the town for the purpose of informing the general public and prospective
solicitors that all door-to-door solicitation at such addresses are prohibited.
   PERMIT. A document issued by the Clerk- Treasurer of the town authorizing a
commercial solicitor to engage in door-to-door commercial solicitation.
   PERMIT HOLDER. Any person to whom a permit has been issued under the
provisions of this chapter.
   PERSON. A natural person or business entity, such as, without limitation, a
corporation, association, firm, joint venture, estate, trust, business trust,
syndicate, fiduciary, partnership or any group or combination thereof.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. The state, country, city and county, municipality, school
district, school improvement district, town and every other kind of district,
agency, instrumentality or political subdivision thereof organized pursuant to
law and any separate entity created by intergovernmental contract or
cooperation only between or among the state, country, town and county,
municipality, school district, school improvement district, town and every
other kind of district, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision
thereof.
   RESIDENCE. A private residence in the town, including, but not limited to,
condominium units, apartments and trailers and shall include the yards, grounds
or hallways thereof.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(2))
§ 110.03  ALL SOLICITATION PROHIBITED BY POSTING OF “NO SOLICITATION” OR “NO
TRESPASSING” SIGN.
   (A)   Any owner or lawful occupant of any residence within the town who
wishes to prohibit door-to-door commercial solicitation at his or her residence
may register the address of such residence with the town by completing a form
prepared by the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, which form may be submitted to the
town either in person, by mail or on the town’s website. Such registration
shall take effect 30 calendar days after the date of the town’s receipt of such
registration form.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall maintain and publish on the town’s
website a no-solicitation list consisting of all residential addresses that
have been registered under division (A) above and that have not been deleted by
the town under division (D) below or by the owner or lawful occupant of the
registered property. Each permit holder shall be responsible for obtaining and
reviewing a copy of such list immediately upon issuance of a permit under this
chapter and at such intervals thereafter as may be reasonably necessary to
ensure compliance with the requirements of division (C) below.
   (C)   As of the effective date of the registration of a residential address
under division (A) above, all door-to-door commercial solicitation at such
address shall be prohibited until such time, if at all, that the address has
been deleted from the no-solicitation list.
   (D)   Each residential address appearing on the town’s no-solicitation list
will remain on the list for two years from the date it was submitted to the
town, at which time it shall be deleted from the list unless a new form
requesting no-solicitation at such residence has been submitted by the owner or
lawful occupant thereof. No less than 60 calendar days prior to the deletion of
any address from the no-solicitation list, the Clerk-Treasurer shall provide
written notice to the property owner or occupant who registered the address
with the town, which notice shall be sent to the registered address or to such
other address as may have been provided to the town at the time of
registration.
   (E)   Prior to the expiration of the two-year period referenced in division
(D) above, the owner or lawful occupant of any residence appearing on the no-
solicitation list may cause such residence to be removed from the list by
submitting a written request for removal of the same to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Neither the town, nor any of its officers, employees, agents or
authorized volunteers, shall be liable to any person for any injuries, damages
or liability of any kind arising from or relating to any errors or omissions
that may occur in compiling or maintaining the no-solicitation list.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(3))
§ 110.04  PERMITS AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE REQUIRED FOR COMMERCIAL SOLICITORS.
   (A)   Any person seeking to engage in door- to-door solicitation must obtain
a permit from the Clerk-Treasurer and pay the permit fee as provided in this
chapter before commencing any such solicitation.
   (B)   All permits shall be issued in the name of the applicant. Upon
issuance of each permit, the Clerk-Treasurer shall create and maintain a list
of all persons authorized to engage in door-to-door commercial solicitation
under the permit. It shall be the sole responsibility of the permit holder to:
      (1)   Provide a copy of the permit to each person authorized to engage in
solicitation under the permit;
      (2)   Ensure that each person authorized to solicit under the permit
complies with the terms and conditions of the permit and with the provisions of
this chapter; and
      (3)   Notify the Clerk-Treasurer in writing of any persons to be added to
or deleted from the list of authorized solicitors.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall, within ten business days of the town’s
receipt, via mail or in person, of a complete application for a permit under
this chapter, issue such permit, together with identification badges for all
persons authorized to engage in door-to-door commercial solicitation under the
permit, unless the Clerk-Treasurer determines that the permit is denied under
criteria stated in this chapter.
   (D)   Subsequent to the issuance of any permit and upon receipt of this
information and fee required by this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall, within
five business days, issue an identification badge to any new or additional
person to be authorized to solicit under the permit as long as such person is
not prohibited under this chapter. The Clerk-Treasurer shall also, within five
business days, issue a replacement identification badge to any solicitor who,
by affidavit, notifies the Clerk-Treasurer that his or her identification badge
has been lost or stolen, and who pays an additional identification badge fee as
established under this chapter.
   (E)   If an employer applies for and is granted a permit under this chapter,
the employer shall be entitled to obtain identification badges from the Clerk-
Treasurer for each employee or agent authorized to solicit under the permit.
The identification badges shall contain a photograph of the solicitor, bear the
words “Permitted Solicitor” and include the names of the employer and solicitor
and the expiration date of the permit.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(4))
§ 110.05  APPLICATION CONTENTS; FEES.
   (A)   Each person applying for a door-to-door commercial solicitation permit
shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer an affidavit on a form supplied by the
Clerk-Treasurer stating:
      (1)   The full name, business address and business telephone number of
the applicant;
      (2)   Information regarding the business as required by the Clerk-
Treasurer, including, but without limitation, its legal status and proof of
registration with, or a certificate of good standing from, the Indiana
Secretary of State;
      (3)   A complete list of all persons to be authorized to solicit under
the permit;
      (4)   For each person authorized to solicit under the permit, the
following information:
         (a)   Name, address, telephone number, Social Security number and date
of birth;
         (b)   A current copy of the person’s criminal background check, as
maintained by the State Police, dated no more than 60 days prior to the date of
the application;
         (c)   A description of the individual, including height, weight, color
of eyes and hair color; and
         (d)   The number and state of issuance of the individual’s driver’s
license, if any, or other state-issued photo identification.
      (5)   A brief explanation of the nature of the solicitation activity that
requires a permit under this chapter;
      (6)   If the application is a foreign corporation or an employee of such
corporation, the name, address and telephone number of an agent for process
residing in the state; and
      (7)   Any other information reasonably determined relevant by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   At the time of application, the applicant shall also submit a
photograph of each person to be authorized to solicit under the permit, taken
no more than six months prior to the date of the application, which photographs
fairly depicts the appearance of the proposed solicitor as of the date of the
application which, in the judgment of the Clerk- Treasurer, is suitable for
reproduction on the identification badge to be issued by the town.
   (C)   At the time of application, each applicant shall pay a fee in an
amount determined by the Clerk-Treasurer to be sufficient to defray the costs
incurred by the town in processing the application, plus an additional fee to
defray the costs of preparing and issuing an identification badge for each
person to be authorized to solicit under the permit, including the applicant.
Said fees shall be non-refundable.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(5))
§ 110.06  DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL; DENIAL.
   (A)   (1)   Each permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for 90 days
from the date of issuance.
      (2)   Any permittee wishing to renew a permit issued under this chapter
must apply for the renewal of the permit no less than 30 days prior to the
expiration of its term. Said application shall be accompanied by a criminal
background check as required by this chapter for each person who is to be
authorized to solicit under the permit during the renewal term of the permit.
If a permittee fails to apply for such renewal within said 30-day period of
time, the permit will expire. The renewal fee for each permittee shall be
determined by the Clerk-Treasurer in an amount sufficient to defray the costs
incurred by the town in processing the renewal application. Said fee shall be
non-refundable.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(6))
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deny an application for a permit, or a
renewal of a permit under this chapter, if the Clerk-Treasurer determines that
the applicant has:
      (1)   Made any material misrepresentation or false statement in the
application for the permit; or
      (2)   Been convicted of a felony under the laws of the state or an
equivalent offense under any federal, state, county or municipal law.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(8))
§ 110.07  PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   A person shall not be eligible for issuance of a permit or identification
badge under this chapter if:
   (A)   Such person has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the state
or equivalent offense under any federal, state, county or municipal law; or
   (B)   A permit or an identification badge previously issued to such person
by the Clerk- Treasurer has been revoked by the Clerk-Treasurer under this
chapter.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(7))
§ 110.08  FALSE OR DECEPTIVE REPRESENTATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall attempt to obtain, by telephone or otherwise, an invitation
to visit any private residence for the purpose of soliciting the purchase or
sale of goods, services or anything of value by knowingly making a false ore
deceptive representation or statement.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(9))  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09  DUTY TO DISPLAY IDENTIFICATION BADGE AND TO EXHIBIT PERMIT.
   (A)   Any commercial solicitor engaging in door-to-door commercial
solicitation under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall conspicuously
display his or her identification badge.
   (B)   Whenever requested by a law enforcement officer or by any customer or
prospective customer, any commercial solicitor engaged in door-to-door
commercial solicitation under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall
exhibit is or her identification badge and permit.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(10))  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10  PERMISSIBLE TIMES.
   All door-to-door commercial solicitation shall be undertaken and completed
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and sunset (as announced and published by the
National Weather Service).
(2014 Code, § E2.6(11))  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11  TRANSFER OF PERMITS PROHIBITED.
   No permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferred to any
person.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(12))  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12  REVOCATION OF IDENTIFICATION BADGE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer may suspend or revoke the identification badge of any
solicitor that has engaged in any unlawful solicitation or any solicitation
conducted in such a manner as to constitute a menace to the health, safety or
general welfare of the public.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(13))
§ 110.13  NON-RENEWAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall revoke, and shall not renew, any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter if the Clerk-Treasurer determines that any of the
following have occurred:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement in the application for the
permit or any renewal application, including, without limitation,
representations made as to the criminal history of any person to be authorized
to solicit under the permit;
   (B)   Failure to supervise solicitation conducted under the permit so as to
reasonably ensure that such solicitation is in compliance with the terms of the
permit and with the provisions of this chapter; and/or
   (C)   Authorizing, condoning or knowingly tolerating any unlawful
solicitation or any solicitation conducted in such a manner as to constitute a
menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(14))
§ 110.14  RECORDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain records showing each permit issued and
the alleged violations of this chapter.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(15))
§ 110.15  APPEAL.
   An applicant may appeal any decision relating to his or her permit by the
Clerk-Treasurer to the Town Manager in accordance with the town code. The
decision of the Town Manager shall be final.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(16))
§ 110.16  ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations as are
necessary to effectuate the implementation, administration and enforcement of
this chapter.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(17))
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to the revocation, suspension or denial of a permit or
identification badge issued under this chapter, any applicant, permittee or
solicitor who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with I.C. 35-45-17-2.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(18))
   (B)   Any person who violates any one of the provisions of this chapter or
any provision contained in any section thereof commits a Class C infraction and
shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding $50, plus any and all
attorneys’ fees and costs of collection. Each offense and each day such person,
firm or corporation shall engage in any business, vocation or pursuit requiring
a license under the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense.
(2014 Code, § E2.6(20))
CHAPTER 111:  OFF-SITE FOOD SALES
Section
   
111.01   Permit required
   
111.02   Insurance required
   
111.03   Permit fee
   
111.04   Permit duration
§ 111.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The Town Council has determined that off-site BBQ or similar food/concession
sales shall be permitted in the town only after procuring the appropriate
permit.
(2014 Code, § E2.7(1))
§ 111.02  INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   In order to procure a permit for off-site BBQ or food/concession sales, it
must be shown that the sponsoring entity is a not-for-profit scholastic,
charitable or similar entity, that it has a local town aspect to it, that the
benefits of such activity will be to and for individuals in or around the town
and county and that either the sponsoring entity or food/ concession provider
has insurance in the appropriate amounts against liability arising out of said
function.
(2014 Code, § E2.7(2))
§ 111.03  PERMIT FEE.
   The permit charge shall be $0.
(2014 Code, § E2.7(3))
§ 111.04  PERMIT DURATION.
   (A)   The functions shall be limited to once per week, on either Friday or
Saturday, such at the choice of the sponsoring entity, and being limited to one
sponsored activity per week, on a first come, first served basis. In other
words, there are 52 available permitted functions in a calendar year.
(2014 Code, § E2.7(4))
   (B)   The permitted event shall occur on a rotating basis from week to week,
rotating between:
      (1)   The Town Hall; and
      (2)   The east side of the Courthouse Square.
(2014 Code, § E2.7(5))
CHAPTER 112:  YARD AND GARAGE SALES
Section
   
112.01   Length of sale
   
112.02   Limit of sales per year
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  LENGTH OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful in the town for any citizen and/or resident to conduct
within the town a yard sale or garage sale with a length of any more than three
days.
(2014 Code, § E2.8(1))  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02  LIMIT OF SALES PER YEAR.
   It shall be unlawful for any resident or citizen of the town to conduct more
than three yard sales or garage sales during the course of any given year.
(2014 Code, § E2.8(2))  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter commits a Class C
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection for each
violation.
(2014 Code, § E2.8(3))
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Weapons; discharge
   
130.02   Sound disturbances
   
130.03   Open containers
   
130.04   Alcoholic beverages in town parks
   
130.05   Synthetic cannabinoids
   
130.06   Skateboards
   
130.07   Vandalism, destruction or other crimes in town parks
   
130.08   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  WEAPONS; DISCHARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other entity to
discharge a firearm, bows and arrows and other hunting devices, a BB gun, a
pellet gun or cannon to detonate an explosive within the corporate limits of
the town or to assist any person or persons to engage in any such discharging
or detonation, unless such person, entity or corporation has been granted
special permission in advance by the Town Marshal or the Town Council.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any of the following activities:
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who shall discharge a firearm in the
lawful performance of his or her duty;
      (2)   Any person who shall discharge a firearm in the protection of life
or property when the surrounding facts and circumstances justify such action;
and/or
      (3)   Any person who shall, in connection with an athletic event,
discharge a blank cartridge.
   (C)   A FIREARM shall be defined as any weapon that is capable or designed
to or that may readily be converted to expel a projectile by means of an
explosion, explosive mixture that is commonly used or intended for the purpose
of producing an explosive; or contains any oxidizing and combustive units or
other ingredients in such proportions, quantities or packing than ignition by
fire, friction, concussion, percussion or detonator of any part of the compound
mixture may cause such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the
resultant gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on
contiguous objects or of destroying life or limb.
   (D)   This section may be enforced by the Town Marshal, all police officers
and any prosecutor or attorney duly appointed, constituted and acting under the
authority of the town, the county or the state.
(2014 Code, § D4.1)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  SOUND DISTURBANCES.
   (A)   No person shall play any radio, music player such as a “boom box”,
tape cassette, disc player or television, audio system or musical instrument or
any other type of sound service in a motor vehicle or upon any public road,
street, highway or private property in the town in a manner or at a volume as
to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of other persons. An exception is made
for organized events which have received a valid permit from the town as shall
be issued by the appropriate town officer on a form designated by and for such
purposes as the said official may approve.
   (B)   No person shall play any radio, music player such as a “boom box”,
tape cassette, disc player or television, audio system or musical instrument or
any other type of sound service in a manner or at a volume as to disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of neighboring inhabitants or other persons or at a
volume which is plainly audible to persons other than those who are in the room
or motor vehicle in which such device or instrument is played and who are
voluntary listeners thereto.
   (C)   No person shall permit his or her dog or other animals to bark or emit
noise over an extended period of time so as to disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of other persons.
   (D)   Exemptions include: public safety vehicles and their equipment; use of
any public address system at public events as approved and sanctioned by the
Town Council.
(2014 Code, § D4.2)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  OPEN CONTAINERS.
   The operation of a motor vehicle or a horse- drawn vehicle within which is
located an open container, bottle or can the contents of which contains alcohol
or any other intoxicating beverage, malt drink, liquor or beverage having as a
base or part of its content any substance with an alcohol content susceptible
to being absorbed into the blood stream of an individual and resulting in an
individual drinking said beverage to become intoxicated, as such is defined
under the laws of the state, shall be unlawful.
(2014 Code, § D4.3)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to possess or consume any intoxicating beverage
in any town park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, barter or change any
intoxicating beverage in any town park.
   (C)   The term INTOXICATING BEVERAGE, as used in this section, shall be
construed to mean and include any liquid intended for human consumption
containing more than 1% of volume of alcohol.
   (D)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-6-1 et
seq. and 34-28-5-1 et seq., as well as any and all other applicable statutes
with respect to the control and regulation of the use of alcoholic beverages
within the municipal corporations of the state.
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the Town Marshal or his or her Deputies believe, in
good faith, that a person has violated this section, he or she may detain that
person for a time sufficient to:
         (a)   Inform the person of the allegation; and
         (b)   Obtain the person’s name, address and date of birth; or the
person’s driver’s license, if in his or her possession; and allow the person to
execute a notice to appear.
      (2)   The Town Marshal or his or her Deputies may offer the violator an
opportunity to sign a notice to appear in the County Court at a time specified
to answer the charge; a person charged with an ordinance violation shall give
his or her written promise to appear in court to answer the charge, and if,
after being informed of his or her duty to promise to appear and being warned
of the consequences of his or her refusal to do so, if that person knowingly or
intentionally refuses to provide either his or her name, address and date of
birth; or, if he or she refuses to give his or her driver’s license, if in his
or her possession; to the Town Marshal or his or her Deputies, the person shall
be deemed to have committed a Class C misdemeanor under the laws of the state.
   (F)   Whenever a person is charged with a violation of this section, the
Town Marshal or his or her Deputies shall prepare sufficient copies of the
written notice to appear to provide one copy to each of the following persons:
the person charged; the Clerk-Treasurer of the town; the County Court; and the
Town Marshal. Each written notice to appear shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person charged;
      (2)   The ordinance violation charged;
      (3)   The time when and the place where the violation occurred; and
      (4)   The time when and the place where the person is required to appear
in court.
   (G)   Any person receiving a written notice of violation pursuant to the
provisions of this section, within 72 hours from the date of said violation,
may appear at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town at the Town Hall,
and pay the prescribed penalty by depositing such amount along with the notice
of violation with the Clerk-Treasurer, or such person, within such time, may
mail such fine with the written notice to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, 1201
North Townline Road, LaGrange, Indiana, 46761. In the event that said 72-hour
period shall expire on a Sunday or legal holiday, such violator shall have up
to 4:00 p.m. on the next day following to pay said violation.
(2014 Code, § D4.4)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to use, possess,
purchase, attempt to purchase, sell, publicly display for sale or attempt to
sell, give or barter any one or more of the following chemicals, or any item
which alleges to contain, within the boundaries of the town:
      (1)   2-[(1R, 3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl) phenol
(also known as CP 47,497 and its C6, C7, C8 and C9 homologues);
      (2)    (6aR,10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6- dimethyl-3(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahy drobenzo [c] chromen-1-ol (also known as HU-210);
      (3)    Naphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl) methanone (also known as 1
Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole or JWH-018); and
      (4)    Naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl) methanone (also known as 1-
Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole or JWH-073).
   (B)   This section shall be enforced by the town’s Police Department. If any
of the substances listed in division (A) above are found in the possession of
any person, they may be confiscated and destroyed by law enforcement officials.
   (C)   It is not an offense under division (A) above if the person was acting
at the direction of an authorized law enforcement agent to enforce or ensure
compliance with this law prohibiting the sale of the aforementioned substance.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any person who commits any act
described in this section pursuant to the direction or prescription of a
licensed physician or dentist authorized to direct or prescribe such act. This
section likewise does not apply to the inhalation of anesthesia for a medical
purpose or dental purpose.
(2014 Code, § D4.5)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06  SKATEBOARDS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a skateboard or
any other similar type conveyance upon the sidewalks, alleys, parking lots and
all related appurtenances of the downtown area of the town.
      (2)   Such area begins at the north side of Factory Street and continuing
south along Detroit Street to the south corner of Detroit Street and Central
Avenue, and extends one block east of Detroit Street to Poplar Street and one
block west of Detroit Street to High Street starting at the north side of
Factory Street and continuing south to Central Avenue.
   (B)   Any property owner who shall post his or her property with a
conspicuous sign which states “No Skateboarding” and who writes a letter to the
town requesting that this section be enforced upon said posted property shall
be entitled to the protection of this section, and it shall likewise be
unlawful to operate a skateboard or other similar conveyance upon said posted
property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate a skateboard or similar conveyance
upon any property owned by the town or county so long as said property is
posted “No Skateboarding”.
(2014 Code, § D4.6)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07  VANDALISM, DESTRUCTION OR OTHER CRIMES IN TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   The Town Council does hereby vest the authority in its Town Marshal to
by letter restrict the use of the town’s parks system by any person upon that
officer’s conclusion that the subject person has engaged in actions detrimental
to the parks system and/or such that would be classified as vandalism,
malicious destruction or other crime.
   (B)   The restriction which said Town Marshal shall place upon said person
shall be that said person shall not utilize the town park without prior written
consent of the Town Marshal or, if said person is a minor, said person must be
accompanied to the town park by a custodial parent or guardian.
   (C)   If any person shall feel aggrieved by any such action of the Town
Marshal, such person and/or his or her parent and/or legal guardian if such
person is a minor, shall have an absolute right to petition the Town Council
for review of this matter and actions consistent therewith.
(2014 Code, § D4.7)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08  CURFEW.
   (A)   Conditions have been found to exist in the town that make it
reasonable for the purposes of public safety to establish curfew times earlier
than those specified by I.C. 31-37-3, in particular the loitering of young
people in public places late at night and the subsequent occurrence of
vandalism and damage to property at or near the times said young people have
been found to have gathered in various public places within the corporate
boundaries of the town.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 18 years of age to be in a
public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   The above stated curfew times do not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his or her parent, guardian or
custodian; or
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from lawful employment, a
school sanctioned activity or a religious event.
   (D)   This section may be enforced by the Town Marshal, all police officers
and any prosecutor or attorney duly appointed, constituted and acting under the
authority of the town, the county or the state.
(2014 Code, § D4.8)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
130.01 of this chapter shall be charged in the court of appropriate
jurisdiction and, upon the appropriate finding, shall be deemed to have
committed a Class C infraction and fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus
any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection. Any subsequent admission
or judgment of a violation thereafter under §
130.01 of this chapter within a calendar year shall be deemed a Class A
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $100, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D4.1)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Whosoever shall violate the terms and conditions of §
130.02 of this chapter shall be punished as follows:
            1.   First offense, Class C infraction: fine of $50;
            2.   Second offense, Class B infraction: fine of $75; and
            3.   Third offense, Class A infraction: fine of $100.
         (b)   In addition to the applicable fine amount, individuals convicted
under §
130.02 of this chapter must pay any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of
collection.
      (2)   Upon conviction for a violation of §
130.02 of this chapter, the sound device used during the commission of the
offense shall be subject to seizure for payment of the judgment. In addition,
the town officer may seize the device used to violate any part of §
130.02 of this chapter as evidence for the court when the violation is
discovered.
(2014 Code, § D4.2)
   (D)   Any person violating §
130.03 of this chapter shall be deemed to have committed a Class A infraction
and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100,
plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection. Section
130.03 of this chapter may be enforced by any state, county or town law
enforcement officer.
(2014 Code, § D4.3)
   (E)   (1)   Any person violating §
130.04 of this chapter shall be deemed to have committed a Class A infraction
and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100,
plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each date during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
      (2)   If any person receiving notice of violation shall fail to pay such
violation the Town Marshal or his or her Deputies shall prepare or cause to be
prepared a proper affidavit for the arrest of such violator. Further that, the
Town Marshal or his or her Deputies may file any violation of §
130.04 of this chapter committed within the town with the County Court and such
proceedings to enforce §
130.04 of this chapter shall be brought in the name of the municipal
corporation of the town. Failure to pay the sum of $100, upon the notice of
violation of the provisions of §
130.04 of this chapter, may result in charges being brought against the accused
and, upon conviction of violation of §
130.04 of this chapter, such offending party shall be fined in the amount of
not less than $100, nor more than $1,000.
(2014 Code, § D4.4)
   (F)   (1)   Any business found to be in violation of §
130.05 of this chapter will be subject to a civil fine of $2,500. Any person
found in violation of §
130.05 of this chapter will be guilty of a civil fine not to exceed $1,000.
      (2)   The Town Attorney shall have the authority to seek in injunction to
close any business which refuses to or fails to comply with §
130.05 of this chapter. Section
130.05 of this chapter may be enforced by the Town Marshal, his or her Deputy
and any other law enforcement officer with arrest powers in the state and
prosecuted by the Town Attorney or any prosecutor of the state, either designee
or deputy.
      (3)   In addition to the fines imposed as an infraction hereunder, any
person deemed violating §
130.05 of this chapter shall be responsible for all attorney fees and other
costs incurred by the town in the enforcement and prosecution of §
130.05 of this chapter.
(2014 Code, § D4.5)
   (G)   Whosoever shall violate the terms and conditions of §
130.06 of this chapter shall be punished as follows. In addition to the
applicable fine amount, individuals convicted under §
130.06 of this chapter must pay any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of
collection. A violation of §
130.06 of this chapter may be prosecuted by the County Prosecutor, their
representatives or by the Town Attorney.
(2014 Code, § D4.6)
   (H)   Section
130.07 of this chapter and the rights and obligations therein bestowed shall be
in addition to any and all other ordinances, laws or resolutions affecting or
applying to any individual’s actions within said parks and any other such legal
consequences flowing from said actions:
      (1)   First offense, Class D infraction: fine of $25;
      (2)   Second offense, Class C infraction: fine of $50; and
      (3)   Third offense, Class B infraction: fine of $75.
(2014 Code, § D4.7)
   (I)   The first violation of §
130.08 of this chapter shall be handled with the return of the child to his or
her parent. Any subsequent violation of §
130.08 of this chapter will subject the parent of any child who violates §
130.08 of this chapter to a Class C infraction and, upon conviction thereof,
the parent shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all
attorneys’ fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § D4.8)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   REAL ESTATE USED FOR SALE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   TREES
      
154.   MOBILE DWELLING UNITS
      
155.   UNDERGROUND AND BURIED UTILITY DISTRICTS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Manufacturing and storage
   
150.02   Alteration of water runoff
   
150.03   Prevention of backflows
   
150.04   Delegation of powers and authority
   
150.05   Designation of a single agency for building
   
150.06   Building construction registration fee
   
150.07   House numbers
   
150.08   Certain types of off-premises business
Unsafe Building Law
   
150.20   Adoption of law
   
150.21   Department of Unsafe Structures; authority
   
150.22   Construction; state statutes
   
150.23   Hearing authority
Building Code
   
150.35   Title
   
150.36   Purpose
   
150.37   Definitions
   
150.38   Scope
   
150.39   Authority
   
150.40   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
   
150.41   Building permits; application, issuance
   
150.42   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.43   Inspections and investigations
   
150.44   Stop-work order
   
150.45   Right of appeal
   
150.46   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.47   Lifting devices located within private residence
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  MANUFACTURING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   The following manufacture or storage activity in other than a building
within the corporate limits of the town is hereby declared a nuisance in any
court of record and any such activity is now prohibited within the corporate
limits: atomic plants; arsenals; cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris;
manufacture and storage; distillation of bones; fertilizer and plant food
manufacture and storage; lime slag; stone; cinder or coal crushing or
pulverizing, storage or operation; and agricultural lime storage or other type
of lime storage or the storage of other such objects and items which promote
dust and odor outside the land on which they are stored.
(2014 Code, § 2.9(1))
   (B)   In order not to be considered a nuisance, said storage buildings may
be inspected by all governing bodies including, but not limited to, the state’s
Fire Marshal, the county’s Board of Health and the town’s Plan Commission.
(2014 Code, § 2.9(2))
   (C)   None of the provisions of this section shall effect any pending cause
of action or right of action, either civil or penal.
(2014 Code, § 2.9(4))
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  ALTERATION OF WATER RUNOFF.
   (A)   The owner of any land situated within the limits of the town is hereby
required to obtain a written permit from the Superintendent, before
commencement of any filling, draining, grading or other alteration to the
drainage, water flow or water course, including, but not limited to, any
alterations in the water run-off into the storm or sanitary sewer system or
connections, tap-ins or other appurtenances, of the town, now existing, or any
activity which will modify, interrupt or otherwise alter the flow or discharge
of water into said system, either directly or indirectly. The application for
such permits shall be made on the form furnished by the town, which the
applicant shall supplement with such other information and specifications as
deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $25,
shall be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
(2014 Code, § 2.10(1))
   (B)   This permit shall also cover any grading work, that modifies the flow
of water as set forth in division (A) above.
(2014 Code, § 2.10(2))
   (C)   The permit issued by the Superintendent shall expire 90 days from
issuance thereof, or such reasonable extensions of time as set by the said
Superintendent. The Town Council shall, in its discretion, require of any
applicant, a performance bond in such amount and upon such terms as the Council
shall determine to insure the faithful performance of the obligations of said
applicant as contained in the permit and specifications submitted. In the event
that any person shall alter the flow of water within the town limits in
violation of this amendment, the Council shall serve written notice upon said
persons stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction of said violations. The offending person,
shall, within the period of time stated on such notice, permanently cease all
violations.
(2014 Code, § 2.10(3))
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03  PREVENTION OF BACKFLOWS.
   (A)   A CROSS-CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
(2014 Code, § E2.11(1))
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the town’s Water
Department and by the Environmental Management Board in accordance with 327
I.A.C.8-10.
(2014 Code, § E2.11(2))
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the town’s Water Department to cause
inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water system
where cross-connections with the public water system is deemed possible. The
frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential health hazards
involved shall be as established by the town’s Water Department and may include
a requirement of annual inspection reports being made to the town’s Water
Department.
(2014 Code, § E2.11(3))
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town’s
Water Department shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time
to examine any property served by a connection to the public water system of
the town for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of
any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed
evidence of the presence of cross- connections.
(2014 Code, § E2.11(4))
   (E)   The town’s Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after notice is served on the owner,
lessee or occupant of the property or premises where a violation is found or
suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
the cross-connection(s) has/have been eliminated in compliance with the
provisions of this section.
(2014 Code, § E2.11(5))
   (F)   If it is deemed by the town’s Water Department that a cross-connection
or an emergency endangers public health, safety or welfare requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
(2014 Code, § E2.11(6))
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories and all other hazardous
users shall immediately install and maintain a reduced pressure principle
backflow preventer in the main water line serving such building on the
premises. The backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible
location not subject to flooding or freezing. The location shall be kept on
file with the town’s Water Department.
(2014 Code, § E2.11(7))
   (H)   This section does not supersede the state’s Uniform Plumbing Code, but
is supplementary to them.
(2014 Code, § E2.11(9))
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04  DELEGATION OF POWERS AND AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   The Building Department of the county and the Building Commissioner,
or his or her designee, shall have the full authority, both expressed and
implied, to perform the responsibilities, activities and all necessary actions
required to be performed by the Building Commissioner, in furtherance of an
enforcement of Town Ordinance 2005-7-25-A.
(2014 Code, § E3.2(1))
   (B)   All powers of interpretation, enforcement or otherwise, created or
implied by Town Ordinance No. 2005-7-25-A are hereby delegated to the County
Building Department and the County Building Commissioner or his or her
designee, by said Town Council.
(2014 Code, § E3.2(2))
   (C)   The Town Council does hereby specifically agree to permit the county
to assess or establish by ordinance the appropriate fees, fines, penalties or
other moneys to be collected for enforcement of Town Ordinance No.2005-7-25-
A and does further agree to jointly execute with the county any ordinances
which they should deem necessary in furtherance of the establishment of fees,
fines or assessments to be charged by the Building Department and/or Building
Commissioner.
(2014 Code, § E3.2(3))
   (D)   The Building Commissioner shall ascertain that no actual building
permits for construction to occur within the town shall be issued until such
time that the application has been reviewed by the Town Council, as to zoning,
planning, building and appropriateness of such building activity, and a letter
approving same has been made a part of the permanent permit file.
(2014 Code, § E3.2(4))
§ 150.05  DESIGNATION OF A SINGLE AGENCY FOR BUILDING.
   (A)   Between the county and the town, whose agency are signatories hereto
that:
      (1)   The Building Department of the county, by and through its Building
Commissioner and inspectors, is the single agency designated to administer the
building rules and inspections within the boundaries of the town;
      (2)   The Building Commissioner of the county is authorized and empowered
to issue building permits, make inspection, order corrections of violations,
issue certificates of occupancy and to perform such other ministerial duties as
are commonly performed in the execution of his or her office, on behalf of the
town, in a manner consistent with and in full compliance with the requirements
of LaGrange Town Ordinance No. 2005-7-25-B;
      (3)   Any appeal to a decision by the Building Commissioner of the county
shall lie first with the county executive pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, and to the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission as provided for in I.C. 13-2-7;
      (4)   Any judicial remedy sought by the Building Commissioner of the
county to enforce his lawful orders to obtain compliance with the building
rules of the town shall be brought to the Town Attorney for disposition;
      (5)   The town adopts the fee schedule adopted by the county in Ordinance
No. 2005-6-20C, or as from time to time amended, as the same fees to be
collected by the Building Commissioner of the county in the administration and
enforcement of the Town of LaGrange’s Ordinance No. 2005-7-25-A; and
      (6)   Such permit fees that are collected by the Building Commissioner of
the county shall be accounted for and deposited as directed by county ordinance
and shall be considered full payment for any inspection services provided by
his or her office on behalf of the town.
(2014 Code, § E3.3(1))
   (B)   This section became effective upon approval by the Board of County
Commissioners and the Town Council, and upon signing this document by their
chief executive officers.
(2014 Code, § E3.3(2))
   (C)   This section shall be in effect continuously year to year without the
necessity of a formal renewal by any party thereto, unless terminated by the
resolution of the Board of Commissioners of the county or the Town Council.
(2014 Code, § E3.3(3))
§ 150.06  BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REGISTRATION FEE.
   The town does hereby establish a building construction registration fee,
separate and apart from the permit fee established by the county, and does
further require that any individual intending to construct a building or effect
any change upon a current building which would require a separate building
permit to be issued through the county shall register this construction with
the town on the approved town form and pay a fee of $10. The town will send
notice of this registration to the county for purposes of being utilized by the
county as a part of its building permit process. The county shall issue no
building permit until such time as a county resident has presented proof of
registration of his or her construction/building activity with the Town
Council.
(2014 Code, § E3.4(1))
§ 150.07  HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful in the town for the owner of a house, building or
other structure to fail to visibly place numerals two inches or larger
representing the house numbering assigned to said house or business structure.
(2014 Code, § E2.2(1))
   (B)   All houses within the corporate limits of the town shall have
displayed in prominent fashion, upon the side of said house facing the street
upon which said house has been deemed located, or upon a mailbox placed upon
the front of said house, the owner of said home shall visibly cause to be
displayed the assigned house number for such house of numerals two inches or
larger.
(2014 Code, § E2.2(2))
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08  CERTAIN TYPES OF OFF-PREMISES BUSINESS.
   It shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the town for any
individual or business to create a furnace or other burning device intended to
provide heat to a residence, building or any other structure whether commercial
or residential separate or apart from the location of said furnace, burning
device or structure housing same, and to cause said furnace or other burning
device to expel smoke, fumes or other noxious or unpleasant odors from the real
estate upon which the premises is located.
(2014 Code, § E2.3(1))  Penalty, see §
150.99
UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
§ 150.20  ADOPTION OF LAW.
   The town hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-9, which establishes the state’s Unsafe
Building Law and explicitly incorporate by reference the definition of
“substantial property interest” found in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
(Ord. 2014-06-016(B), passed 6-16-2014)
§ 150.21  DEPARTMENT OF UNSAFE STRUCTURES; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The town hereby establishes the Department of Unsafe Structures. The
Town Manager shall serve as the chief administrative officer of the Department
of Unsafe Structures. Other members of the Department shall be the Department
of Public Works and Water Superintendent. The purpose of the Department will be
to administer this subchapter and ensure compliance with I.C. 36-7-9.
   (B)   The Department of Unsafe Structures shall be the executive department
authorized to administer and enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 2014-06-016(B), passed 6-16-2014)
§ 150.22  CONSTRUCTION; STATE STATUTES.
   Any reference to a state statute shall mean the statute as amended from time
to time, or any similar statutory provision that may supersede it relating to
the same or similar subject matter.
(Ord. 2014-06-016(B), passed 6-16-2014)
§ 150.23  HEARING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Town Council shall annually appoint an independent party, licensed
to practice law in the state, as the hearing authority.
   (B)   No one who is employed by the enforcement authority may be designated
as a hearing authority.
(Ord. 2014-06-016(B), passed 6-16-2014)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.35  TITLE.
   This subchapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known
as the “Building Code of LaGrange, Indiana”.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(1))
§ 150.36  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of the town and shall be construed in such
a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(2))
§ 150.37  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Building
Department that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner. If the
town should, by ordinance, delegate the responsibilities under this subchapter,
such references shall apply to those such delegated.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4, has the following definition:
      (1)   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public;
            2.   Three or more tenants; and
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a) above;
         (c)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (1)
(a) above, except buildings or structures described in divisions (3) through
(6) below.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above includes a structure that contains three or
more condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) does not include a building or structure that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a Class 2 structure;
      (5)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge;
      (6)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a structure that is intended
to be or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, has the following definition:
      (1)   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or
structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure;
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a)
above, such as a garage, barn or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure;
      (2)   Division (1) above does not include a vehicular bridge; and
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, means any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site;
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used;
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class 2
structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; and
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, means any part
of a building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part
fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly
at the building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or
another building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile
structure or a system that is capable for inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16 has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. § 5402 as it existed on 1-1-2003. This definition is as follows:
MANUFACTURED HOME means a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical
systems contained therein; except that, such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition, except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.; and,
except that, such term shall not include any self-propelled recreational
vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, has the following definition:
      (1)   MOBILE STRUCTURE means any part of a fabricated unit that is
designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; and
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable, but designed to
be joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, means an individual, corporation,
limited liability company, partnership, unincorporated association or
governmental entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, means any bridge that is
neither of the following suspended between two or more parts of a building or
between two or more buildings:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(3))
§ 150.38  SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this subchapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this subchapter and the rules promulgated by
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this subchapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels or
regulated lifting devices.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(4))
§ 150.39  AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(5))
§ 150.40  EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this subchapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this subchapter. These rights, liabilities and other
proceedings are continued and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the
repealed or amended ordinance as if this subchapter had not been adopted.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(7))
§ 150.41  BUILDING PERMITS; APPLICATION, ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Permit required. Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with
a valid building permit obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to
commencement of construction.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(8))
   (B)   Application for building permit.
      (1)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a
complete application to the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the
Building Commissioner and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
         (b)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished;
         (c)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan
shall not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks;
         (d)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the state’s Building Commissioner and the state’s Fire
Marshal, pursuant to I.C. 22-153;
         (e)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds
to be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all
applicable building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances
or law; and
         (f)   The appropriate fee.
      (3)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person
entitled to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The
Building Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide
written authority to apply for a permit.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(9))
   (C)   Issuance of building permit. No building permit shall issue, until and
only after, the application has been reviewed for conformity with zoning,
planning, building and appropriateness by the Town Council. The Building
Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after the person has
submitted a complete application, letter of Town Council approval, including
any applicable fee; provided that, the proposed construction will conform to
all applicable building laws and will not violate any other applicable
ordinances or laws.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(10))
   (D)   Withhold issuance of permits.
      (1)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building
permit or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned
for insufficient funds, permit fees owed pursuant to the town or county, or
inspection fees owed to the Building Commissioner; the Building Commissioner
may withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time
that the debt is satisfied.
      (2)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure
that is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions
of an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(14))
   (E)   Permit revocation. The Building Commissioner may revoke a building
permit when any of the following are applicable:
      (1)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepre-sentation as to a material fact;
      (2)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
      (3)   There is failure to comply with this subchapter; and
      (4)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(15))
§ 150.42  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be issued
unless such building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building
or structure unless a full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(11))  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.43  INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner may, at any reasonable time, go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this subchapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this subchapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(12))
   (B)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work
cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance
with fire safety laws. (The Fire Department has independent authority to
conduct inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.)
(2014 Code, § E3.1(13))
§ 150.44  STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this subchapter or any
state law pertaining to safety during construction;
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this subchapter or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
and
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(16))
§ 150.45  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter shall
have the right to petition for review of any order of the Building
Commissioner.
   (B)   Such a person may file a petition using either, or both, of the
following procedures.
      (1)   (a)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter
may appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
         (b)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the
city that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C.
22-15, a fire safety or a building rule.
         (c)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
         (d)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this subchapter.
         (e)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any
statute in which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the
order.
      (2)   If, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the town has established by
ordinance to hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person
aggrieved by an order may petition for review with this administrative body in
accordance with said ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, then the
person may petition a court for judicial review of the order.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(19))
§ 150.46  ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the state’s Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles
of I.A.C. Title 675 are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall
include any later amendments to those rules:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
         (b)   Indiana Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code;
      (9)   Article 24 - Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code; and
      (10)   Article 25 - Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the legislative body for public
inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this subchapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted
by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(20))
§ 150.47  LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 81.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue,
New York, New York 10016;
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue,
New York, New York 10016; and
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the legislative
body for public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(21))
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of any person, firm or corporation to
comply with the terms of §
150.01 of this chapter and any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
150.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall suffer the
penalties of §
150.01 of this chapter as hereinafter set out, to-wit: any violation of any
provisions of §
150.01 of this chapter shall constitute a Class B infraction and a fine to be
levied against such persons, firm or corporation in the amount of not less than
$75, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection for each day of
violation.
(2014 Code, § 2.9(3))
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in the Council’s notice, per §
150.02 of this chapter, shall be guilty of a Class A infraction and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100 per day for
said violation, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection, with
each day that such violation continues being deemed a separate offense.
(2014 Code, § 2.10(3))
   (D)   Any violation of §
150.03 of this chapter shall be deemed a Class A infraction and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all
attorneys’ fees and costs of collection. Each day a violation of this chapter
exists shall be deemed a separate infraction.
(2014 Code, § E2.11(8))
   (E)   Any such house found without numbers, per §
150.07 of this chapter, shall be notified by the Town Marshal of the failure to
sufficiently number said home and, if in two weeks of such notice, such house
has not become numbered, the owner of such house shall be deemed to have
committed a Class D infraction and shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $25,
plus all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection. Each day following the 14-day
warning period shall be considered a separate offense subject to the above
stated fine.
(2014 Code, § E2.2(3))
   (F)   Any person violating the provisions of §
150.08 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, plus any and all attorneys’
fees and costs of collection. All fines shall be payable upon conviction of
same for each day that any violation of §
150.08 of this chapter should continue.
(2014 Code, § E2.3(2))
   (G)   Violations of §§
150.20 through
150.23 of this chapter shall be addressed as established in I.C. 36-7-9, as it
may be amended from time to time. Any party found to have violated §§
150.20 through
150.23 of this chapter shall reimburse the town all reasonable expenses
incurred in administration and enforcement of §§
150.20 through
150.23 of this chapter; professional, legal and otherwise; as relates to such
violation.
   (H)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the city may initiate a civil action
in a court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a
provision of §§
150.35 through
150.47 of this chapter.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(17))
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.35 through
150.47 of this chapter may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding
$2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the
operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in §§
150.35 through
150.47 of this chapter.
(2014 Code, § E3.1(18))
(Ord. 2014-06-016(B), passed 6-16-2014)
CHAPTER 151:  REAL ESTATE USED FOR SALE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
Section
   
151.01   Promotion of health and safety
   
151.02   Reports, investigations and notices by Police Department
   
151.03   Criteria for establishing violation
   
151.04   Eviction proceedings as defense
   
151.05   Multiple unit dwellings
   
151.06   Filing criminal charges
   
151.07   Assistance by Town Marshal
   
151.08   Limited indemnification of real estate owners
   
151.09   List to be kept by Town Marshal
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  PROMOTION OF HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   (A)   General. The Town Council finds it to be in the best interests of the
residents of the town and the general public to provide for the regulation of
conduct it deems to be offensive, to prevent vice, disorder and immorality; and
to promote public peace, health and safety; and, to this end, the Town Council
enacts this chapter.
   (B)   Permitting the use of real estate for illicit drug activity. No owner
of real estate located in the town shall knowingly allow that real estate to be
used as a site for any use or sale of illicit narcotics or controlled dangerous
substances, after having received written notice, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-25,
from the Marshal’s office of the town, that a present occupant or tenant of
that property has been using or selling illicit narcotics or controlled
dangerous substances, or allowing the using or selling of illicit narcotics or
controlled dangerous substances at that property, or has otherwise been
engaging in or allowed activity constituting a nuisance pursuant to I.C. 32-30-
8-1 et seq. A legal or equitable owner of such real estate is deemed to have
knowledge of such activity upon receipt of notice set forth herein. For the
purposes of this chapter, an owner of real estate is defined as any person who,
alone or jointly or severally with others, shall have legal or equitable title
to any dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (C)   Notice. Notice is deemed to be given to the owner, upon receipt of
notice as indicated above, by the owner of record pursuant to the records and
files of the office of the County Assessor’s office.
   (D)   Discrimination forbidden. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
to encourage or authorize the discrimination by lessors against any person(s)
based upon race, creed, religion, sex, age or national origin. Rather, it is
the intent of this chapter to hold persons accountable for acquiescing in or
participating in the continued use of his or her property as the location of
illegal drug activity, after having received notice as set forth in division
(C) above.
(2014 Code, § E2.4(1))
§ 151.02  REPORTS, INVESTIGATIONS AND NOTICES BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A complaint or report of suspected illegal activities constituting the
use or sale of narcotics or controlled substances, or conduct constituting a
nuisance pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8-1 et seq., by tenants, occupants and/or their
visitors, guests or invitees as observed by the lessor, third persons such as
other tenants of the property, or persons residing or working in the vicinity
of the property, or city officials, and/or representatives of agencies and/or
departments of the town shall be submitted to the office of the Town Marshal
and each such report or complaint shall be individually logged in that office.
   (B)   Upon receipt of any report or complaint of such suspected illegal
activities on real estate premises, a determination shall be made by the town,
Town Marshal and or other law enforcement agencies as to the need and nature of
any further investigation including, but not limited to, the necessity for
surveillance by the Town Marshal of such real estate premises.
   (C)   Upon completion of investigation by the Town Marshal revealing that
such suspected illegal activity is taking place at a particular premises, a
warning letter shall be sent by the Town Marshal to the owner of the real
estate and a copy to the tenant/ occupant whose premises is the subject of the
investigation, by certified mail, return receipt requested, informing the owner
of the investigation revealed the suspected illegal activity and the fact that
there is an on-going investigation. The warning letter shall inform the owner
of his or her choice to take action to abate such suspected illegal activity
and of the intent of the Town Marshal, if its on-going investigation indicates
such suspected illegal activity has not ceased, to take further legal action.
   (D)   Once a search warrant has been obtained to search the real estate
premises for narcotics or controlled substances, or for any other evidence
related to such suspected illegal activity, a second letter which shall be sent
to the owner of the real estate, by certified mail, return receipt requested,
shall inform the owner that such warrant was served, that the investigation at
the premises is continuing, and that legal proceedings may be commenced
pursuant to this chapter. Such letter shall inform the owner of his or her
choice to take some form of remedial action. A copy of the letter shall be sent
to the Town Marshal, the Town Attorney’s office and to the tenant/occupant of
the premises for which a search warrant is obtained.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a copy of the second letter issued under division (D)
above, the Town Attorney’s office may proceed under I.C. 32-30-8-1 et seq. to
abate or enjoin any suspected illegal activity, as defined herein, constituting
a nuisance as defined in I.C. 32-30-8-1 et seq. and/or to advise the Town
Marshal to issue a notice pursuant to §
151.01 of this chapter. The notice shall advise that legal proceedings may be
instituted against the owner of real estate pursuant to this chapter and shall
also inform the owner of his or her choice to commence eviction proceedings
pursuant to §
151.04 of this chapter.
(2014 Code, § E2.4(2))
§ 151.03  CRITERIA FOR ESTABLISHING VIOLATION.
   Conviction for a violation of this chapter will be determined by the
appropriate judicial authority based upon the totality of the circumstances
present, including, but not limited to, that the owner has received notices of
suspected illegal activity pursuant to §§
151.01 and
151.02 of this chapter and this section.
(2014 Code, § E2.4(3))
§ 151.04  EVICTION PROCEEDINGS AS DEFENSE.
   (A)   No person shall be charged with the violation of this chapter if such
person:
      (1)   Has instituted eviction proceedings within 30 days of receipt of
the notice of criminal activities in accordance with §§
151.01 or
151.02 of this chapter against the tenant whose suspected criminal activities
would otherwise give rise to potential liability under this chapter; and
      (2)   Has completed the eviction proceedings within 30 days of
commencement of the proceedings.
   (B)   If any eviction proceedings are not completed within 30 days by reason
of court ordered delays in such proceedings, the person charged with a
violation of this chapter must, nonetheless, move forward expeditiously with
any such eviction proceeding.
(2014 Code, § E2.4(4))
§ 151.05  MULTIPLE UNIT DWELLINGS.
   In the case of a multiple unit dwelling, the only person(s) necessary to
name in an eviction proceeding is the tenant/occupant occupying the actual unit
involved with the suspected illegal activity described herein.
(2014 Code, § E2.4(5))
§ 151.06  FILING CRIMINAL CHARGES.
   Charging an owner of real estate with a violation of this chapter shall be
an adjunct to, and not substitution for, any criminal charges filed as a result
of investigation by the Town Marshal against occupants or tenants of that
owner’s real estate premises for use or sale of illicit drugs or controlled
dangerous substances, or conduct constituting a nuisance pursuant to I.C. 32-
30-8-1, et seq.
(2014 Code, § E2.4(6))
§ 151.07  ASSISTANCE BY TOWN MARSHAL.
   The Town Marshal shall use reasonable efforts to train, educate and assist
owners of real estate in avoiding placing tenants or occupants in their real
estate who are known violators of illegal activities enumerated herein.
(2014 Code, § E2.4(7))
§ 151.08  LIMITED INDEMNIFICATION OF REAL ESTATE OWNERS.
   The town shall provide a limited indemnification to an owner of real estate
located in the town, subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   The owner of real estate shall have received the written notice
required by §§
151.01 or
151.02 of this chapter from the Town Marshal advising that a present occupant
or tenant of the property of that owner of real estate has been using or
selling illicit narcotics or controlled dangerous substances or allowing the
using or selling of illicit narcotics or controlled dangerous substances at
that property, or as otherwise been engaging in or allowing activity
constituting a nuisance pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8-1, et seq.
   (B)   The owner of real estate has instituted eviction proceedings with 30
days of receipt of notice of suspected illegal activities in accordance with §§
151.01 or
151.02 of this chapter against a tenant whose suspected criminal activities
would otherwise give rise to potential liability under this chapter.
   (C)   The owner of real estate shall give no less than 30 days’ notice to
the Town Attorney, by certified mail, return-receipt requested, of the trial
date for any eviction proceedings and a list containing the names and addresses
of all witnesses the owner of real estate intends to call at the hearing.
   (D)   The Town Attorney, upon receipt of the notice and list of witnesses,
shall have the right to provide the owner of real estate with the names and
addresses of additional other witnesses including, but not limited to,
witnesses from the Town Marshal whose presence shall be required at the hearing
on the eviction proceedings.
   (E)   All witness listed by either the owner of real estate and/or the Town
Attorney’s office shall be subpoenaed by the owner of real estate in proper and
legal fashion, violation of this chapter shall be an adjunct to, and not
substitution for, any criminal charges filed as a result of investigation by
the Town Marshal against occupants or tenants of that owner’s real estate
premises for use or sale of illicit drugs or controlled dangerous substances,
or conduct constituting a nuisance pursuant to I.C. 32-30-8-1, et seq.
   (F)   The tenant involved as a defendant in the eviction proceedings shall
prevail on the merits, not by reason of procedural irregularities, but by sole
reason that a court finds after trial that the illegal activity alleged in the
notice the owner of real estate had received pursuant to §§
151.01 or
151.02 of this chapter, did not, in fact, take place.
   (G)   The tenant institutes legal proceedings against the owner of real
estate in the form of a counter claim or separate action and obtains a judgment
for damages against the owner of real estate by reason of the tenant having
prevailed on the merits in accordance with division (F) above.
   (H)   The owner of real estate completes whatever steps he or she chooses to
undertake to seek review of the judgment by motion to correct errors and/or
appeal.
   (I)   The limited indemnification by the town shall be restricted solely to
those damages assessed by judgment against the owner of real estate as set out
aforesaid but shall not, in any event, include any attorney’s fees incurred by
the owner of real estate in connection with the enforcement of any of the terms
of this chapter; but will include either the reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in the defense of legal proceedings brought by a tenant pursuant to
division (H) above regardless of the outcome of the proceedings, or the
provision of the legal services by the town at the town’s option.
(2014 Code, § E2.4(8))
§ 151.09  LIST TO BE KEPT BY TOWN MARSHAL.
   The Town Marshal shall keep a list of the names and addresses of all
tenants/occupants to whom copies of letters sent pursuant to this chapter, and
shall make the names available to members of the public requesting same in
reference to potential renters of real estate in the town.
(2014 Code, § E2.4(9))
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, in a sum up to $2,500 and costs of prosecution. Each day a violation
of this chapter continues constitutes a separate offense.
(2014 Code, § E2.4(10))
CHAPTER 152:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Obstruction of movement
Excavations and Obstructions
   
152.15   Definitions
   
152.16   Lighting at night
   
152.17   Barricades or guards; injury or removal
   
152.18   Obstructing free passage of streets
   
152.19   Compliance required
   
152.20   Permit required
   
152.21   Fees
   
152.22   Bond required
   
152.23   Backfilling and repaving
   
152.24   Liability of permittee to continue for one year
   
152.25   Authority to issue or deny permits
   
152.26   Mains and pipes; location; supervision of work
   
152.27   Notice of completion
   
152.28   Tunneling
   
152.29   Barricades and danger lights
   
152.30   Sides of excavations; injury to pavement
   
152.31   Brick streets
Sidewalks
   
152.45   Definitions
   
152.46   Purpose
   
152.47   Location
   
152.48   Financing; replacement
   
152.49   Failure of owner to construct
   
152.50   Sidewalk grade; establishment
   
152.51   Sidewalk specifications
   
152.52   Ice, snow or debris
   
152.53   Emergency repairs
Excavations and Restorations
   
152.65   Pavements, gutters, and curbs
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  OBSTRUCTION OF MOVEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall stand, lie, lounge or sit (either directly or on a
chair, box or other object) on any street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, any
public right-of-way; or any driveway open to the public; or in any doorway,
entranceway or passageway affording entrance or exit by the public into or from
any building, be such building or any establishment therein open for business
or not, nor shall any person congregate with others in such places so as to
physically obstruct by his or her actions or behavior, presence or location,
unimpeded passage by others.
(2014 Code, § E1.2(1))
   (B)   No person shall sit, stand, lie or lounge upon or hang upon or from
the exterior of any automobile, motorcycle, bus, truck, motor vehicle or
vehicular trailer while such vehicle is stopped or parked, in such a manner as
to physically obstruct by his or her actions or behavior, presence or
locations, unimpeded passage by others.
(2014 Code, § E1.2(2))
   (C)   The prohibition, above, against sitting on the sidewalk and curbs
shall not apply during or immediately prior to any public parade or other
public celebration at the site of such parade or other public celebration at
the site of such parade or such celebration for which parade or celebration the
proper governmental agency has granted permission.
(2014 Code, § E1.2(3))
   (D)   The prohibitions contained hereinabove in this section shall not apply
to personnel of business establishments who, during a sidewalk sale for which a
proper permit has been granted by the town, or for which permission has been
granted by proper governmental agency for the town, may sit on chairs or
benches or the sidewalk adjacent to such establishments during said sale.
(2014 Code, § E1.2(4))
   (E)   The provisions of this section, or particular prohibitions hereof,
generally or in certain areas only, may be suspended, when, in connection with
carnivals, public activities and other public events, such suspension is
warranted in the opinion and discretion of the Council.
(2014 Code, § E1.2(5))
Penalty, see §
152.99
EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 152.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. Any unforseen circumstances of occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes danger to the health or welfare of persons or property, or which
may cause or does cause the interruption of a service being furnished by a
public utility doing business in the town and which utility is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state.
   HE or HIM. Includes the words “she”, “hers”, or “her”, “it” and “its”, the
singular shall include the plural. The plural shall include the singular. The
masculine shall include the feminine and the feminine shall include the
masculine.
   PERMIT. The authorization issued by the Town Council pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, to make any opening or excavation in a street of
the town.
   PERSON. A natural person, partnership, firm or corporation.
   PETITIONER. Any person who makes “a request” for a permit, pursuant to the
provisions hereof.
   STREET. Any public street, public highway, public alley, public right-of-way
or a public road, any of which is under the jurisdiction of the Town Council.
   TOWN. The Town of LaGrange, Indiana.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(1))
§ 152.16  LIGHTING AT NIGHT.
   (A)   Any person making any excavation in any street in the town shall mark
and designate such excavation by a light or lights placed at such excavation
during all hours of darkness during the existence of the excavation.  Such
light or lights shall be placed at the points where such excavation approaches
the traveled portion of such street and it or they shall be kept burning during
all hours of darkness. The type of light or lights to be used for this purpose
is to be designated by the Town Council or designated representative or agent.
   (B)   Any person placing any obstruction in any street while constructing or
repairing any building or other structure, or while improving or repairing the
street, or in laying any conduits, wires, pipes, mains or sewers, shall make
such obstruction during the hours of darkness which such obstruction exists by
a light or lights so placed as to indicate the obstruction to any person
passing along such street.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(2))  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.17  BARRICADES OR GUARDS; INJURY OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   Any person making any excavation or placing any building material or
obstruction in any street shall, in addition to the light or lights required by
§
152.16 of this chapter, guard such excavation or obstruction by barriers or
barricades in such manner as to warn travelers of the existence of such
excavations or obstructions and to prevent pedestrians and vehicles from
falling into such excavations or going upon such obstructions.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(3))
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to take, remove, destroy or in any
manner interfere with any light, barrier or barricade placed at any excavation
or obstruction, as required by this subchapter.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(4))
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18  OBSTRUCTING FREE PASSAGE OF STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person by any means or in any manner to collect
together vehicles or any substance or materials so as to obstruct the free
passage or use of any street. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
any person making an obstruction under any building permit or under any right
granted by any provisions of this code any ordinances or legal authority.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(5))  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.19  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do, cause or permit to be done any
digging, cutting or excavating into or upon any street, or into or through any
pavement thereon in the town, except in accordance with and as provided in this
subchapter.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(6))  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.20  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No opening or excavation shall be made under the provisions of
this subchapter until a permit therefor shall have been duly granted as
provided in this subchapter. The work for which the permit is granted must be
started within 30 days of the issuance of said permit or it shall become void.
      (2)   A card showing the permit number will be issued with each permit.
This card shall be posted in a conspicuous place at the site of the work, from
the commencement thereof and until such time as the work is completed. In case
of an emergency, the person making a cut shall be required to take out a permit
on the first day that the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office is open following the
making of a cut and the permit, when issued, shall be effective retroactive to
the date the excavation was started.
      (3)   A permit shall be required for any work or construction by a public
utility doing business in the town, which utility is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission, but the permit fee shall be
waived.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(7))
   (B)   No other permit issued, pursuant to any other ordinances of the town
shall be construed to be a substitute for the permit required under this
subchapter.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(8))
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21  FEES.
   Any person desiring to make an opening or excavation contemplated by this
subchapter shall pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the permit required the
sum of $200. The permit issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, as herein provided,
shall continue in full force and effect for period of six months from the time
of its issuance, and shall be renewable at the discretion of the Town Council.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(9))
§ 152.22  BOND REQUIRED.
   At the time of making the request, under the provisions of §
152.21 of this chapter, the person desiring to make any opening or excavation
shall also file a bond, payable to the town, in such an amount as the Town
Council may designate. Such bond shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and
shall be conditioned to save the town harmless from any loss, cost or damage by
reason of such proposed work, and that the same shall be done in all respects
in conformity with the requirements of this code and all other ordinances of
the town regulating the same; provided, that a single or continuing bond may be
given to embrace all work of the petitioner for a period of time between the
date of the execution of the same and January 1, which bond shall be in the
penal sum as determined by said Council; provided further, however, that, any
public utility, operating under the jurisdiction of the Public Service
Commission of the state, may give an indemnifying agreement in lieu of said
bond.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(10))
§ 152.23  BACKFILLING AND REPAVING.
   Whereas, the Council deems it necessary to establish a firm policy for
backfilling of excavations and replacement of pavement disturbed as a result of
making an opening or excavation in any street, these specifications are set
forth and the compliance therewith shall be a requirement of obtaining a permit
for said opening or excavation; it shall be the obligation of any person
obtaining a permit for an opening or excavation in the public right-of-way to
backfill the excavation and replace the pavement as set forth in these
specifications.
   (A)   Backfill. All excavations under pavement shall be backfilled with a
reasonably clean granular material with good compaction qualities. The material
shall be replaced in layers not to exceed six inches in depth. Each layer shall
be thoroughly tamped with a vibratory type mechanical tamper. Special care
shall be taken in filling around sewers, water pipes, gas lines and the like to
keep the earth at the same height on both sides to avoid shifting of the pipe
line. No removed paving materials or debris shall be used in backfilling the
excavation. Excavations not under a pavement shall be backfilled with virgin
material removed from the excavation by approval of the Town Council or its
designated representatives.
   (B)   Pavement replacer. All pavement shall be replaced with a type of
construction equal to or better than that which is removed as approved by the
town’s Street Commissioner. All cuts in concrete pavements shall be first
outlined with a saw cut not less than one inch to one and one-half inches.
   (C)   Concrete or brick pavements.
      (1)   Concrete used in the replacement of concrete or brick pavements not
presently surfaced with an asphaltic material shall consist of not less than
six bags of air entrained, Type 1-A, portland cement per cubic yard. Slump
shall not exceed three inches. Course aggregate shall be limestone or blast
furnace slag. No natural gravel aggregate will be allowed. Brick pavements will
be replaced with eight inches of concrete, except in some residential streets
where the town may require the brick to be replaced.
      (2)   Where concrete that has an asphaltic concrete surface is replaced,
Type I, portland cement shall be used, and the concrete shall be finished flush
with the surface of the existing concrete and the asphaltic surface replaced.
   (D)   Hot asphaltic concrete, sheet asphalt, emulsified asphalt, chip and
seals, and oil mat pavements. All asphaltic and oil type pavements sh all be
replaced with a hot asphaltic concrete surface conforming to § D-3, Hot
Asphaltic Concrete Base, Binder, and Surface of the latest State Highway
Standard Specifications. The thickness of the pavement shall be equal to that
which existed, but not less than three inches. Not less than eight inches of
Coarse Aggregate, Class A or B, Size No. 53, § K-3, or the State Highway
Specifications, shall be placed under any asphaltic concrete patch unless a
concrete base is necessary. Asphalt placed under a concrete patch shall be cut
back six inches around the concrete patch so that the two joints are offset.
   (E)   Temporary patch. It if is not possible, due to weather conditions, for
the contractor to replace the pavement within 14 days following completion of
the work, a coarse aggregate base eight inches thick and a cold asphaltic
surface shall be applied and maintained as a temporary patch until pavement
repairs can be made. In no case shall a temporary patch be maintained more than
six months before permanent repairs are made.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(11))
§ 152.24  LIABILITY OF PERMITTEE TO CONTINUE FOR ONE YEAR.
   The Town Council shall require periodic inspections of all pavement repairs.
If for any reason, within a period of one year, there is an indication of
settlement of the repaired area or deterioration of the paving materials, the
person taking out the permit shall be required to make the necessary repairs as
specified by the town. The failure of the permittee to make such repairs will
result in the bonding company being required to make the necessary repairs.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(12))
§ 152.25  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE OR DENY PERMITS.
   It shall be the duty of the Council, upon the filing of a petition and
approved bond, to issue to the petitioner a permit to make such excavation and
do such work, and such permit shall describe the kind and location of the same;
provided, however, the Town Council shall also have the authority to refuse to
issue a permit for an excavation where the Council deems the work not to be in
the best public interest or the contractor, by past performances, has indicated
that he or she cannot perform the work in accordance with the specifications.
The Town Council may, by resolution duly passed by a majority of such Council,
authorize and empower their designated representative to issue any permits, all
as provided for in this subchapter, and to determine the amount of the bond
required.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(13))
§ 152.26  MAINS AND PIPES; LOCATION; SUPERVISION OF WORK.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Council in connection with all work
contemplated by this subchapter, through its duly authorized agents, to assist
in determining the proper location for water and sewer or other connections to
be made.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(14))
§ 152.27  NOTICE OF COMPLETION.
   Within 48 hours after the work requiring the excavation have been properly
completed, the person holding the permit, under the provisions of this
subchapter, shall give notice to the Town Council or its designated agent that
the opening has been filled and pavement replaced.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(15))
§ 152.28  TUNNELING.
   In all cases of excavating under street or railway tracts, tunneling may be
permitted if the method and operation is approved by the Town Council.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(16))
§ 152.29  BARRICADES AND DANGER LIGHTS.
   All the proper barricades and danger lights shall be maintained by the party
to whom the permit was issued under the provisions of this subchapter, until
the opening has been repaired.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(17))
§ 152.30  SIDES OF EXCAVATION; INJURY TO PAVEMENT.
   Any person making excavations or causing the same to be made in pavements or
adjacent to pavement, shall so protect the sides of the excavation that the
adjoining soil shall not cave in. It shall be unlawful for any person to
excavate so as to undermine or injure any adjoining pavements.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(18))
§ 152.31  BRICK STREETS.
   (A)   Prior to the cutting or conducting of construction activities upon any
brick street, the person so desiring to conduct said construction activities
shall appear at the office of the Town Clerk- Treasurer for purposes of
receiving a road cut permit and further, ascertaining notice to the town’s
Street Superintendent of the construction activities, the exact nature of same
and the time in which said construction activities will be completed.
(2014 Code, § E1.4(1))
   (B)   The underlayment for said brick streets shall have the backfill
compacted as directed and at the discretion of the town’s Street Superintendent
in order to ascertain proper compacting and the bricks when installed shall be
leveled. All such construction activities shall be done at the direction and
supervision of the town’s Street Superintendent.
(2014 Code, § E1.4(2))
SIDEWALKS
§ 152.45  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HE or HIM. Include the words “she”, “hers”, or “her” and “it” and “its”. The
singular shall include the plural. The plural shall include the singular. The
masculine shall include the feminine and the feminine shall include the
masculine.
   PERSON. A natural person, partnership, firm or corporation.
   PETITIONER. Any person who makes a request for a permit, pursuant to the
provisions hereof.
   SIDEWALK. Any sidewalk located within the corporate limits of the town; any
of which is under the jurisdiction of the Town Council.
   TOWN. The Town of LaGrange, Indiana.
(2014 Code, § E1.1(1))
§ 152.46  PURPOSE.
   Sidewalks are beneficial to the community in that they provide:
   (A)   Protection of children walking to and from schools and playgrounds;
   (B)   Adult pedestrian access to shopping areas, leisure walking and the
like;
   (C)   Play areas for children; and
   (D)   Aid to postal, newspaper and other door-to-door deliveries.
(2014 Code, § E1.1(2))
§ 152.47  LOCATION.
   Sidewalks shall be located on all major streets. Sidewalk construction is
either unfeasible or unnecessary on certain major and local streets or portions
thereof. From time to time, it may become necessary to determine where said
sidewalks shall be located, which shall be the duty of the Town Engineer,
subject to the approval of the Town Council.
(2014 Code, § E1.1(3))
§ 152.48  FINANCING; REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Manager will receive requests for sidewalk replacement,
inspect the affected property, determine the condition and need for
replacement, and keep an up-to-date list of interested and eligible
participants.
   (B)   The Town Manager will annually invite quotes from a minimum of three
contractors on the replacement of eligible sidewalks. Only sidewalks in a
residential zone or on lots used for a single family residence are eligible for
this program.
   (C)   The Town Manager, along with the contractors, will inspect the
requested sidewalk replacement locations, measure and mark the area to be
replaced during a mandatory pre-quote conference. A sidewalk section may not be
split. If any portion of a section is on the adjoining property, the complete
section will be replaced as if it were the participant’s. The sidewalk program
is intended to replace complete sidewalks. The replacement of only one or two
sections is expensive, due to minimum charges, and is not encouraged by the
town. This program is a replacement program. New sidewalks or first time
sidewalks may be made eligible only by specific agreement of the Town Council.
   (D)   Town Council will receive said quotes and take same under advisement.
   (E)   The Town Council will direct the Town Manager to contact property
owners affected by any sidewalk project, advising said property owners of the
nature of the project, of the Town Council’s decision to go forward with same,
of the approximate cost to said property owner, and of the availability of this
program to said property owner. The property owner may then apply and, if
accepted, shall be responsible for 75% of the cost of the project to the pro
rata extent it affects the property owned by said applicant.
   (F)   Town Manager shall report findings to Council and recommend action.
   (G)   Council shall award project to the lowest responsive and responsible
quoter.
   (H)   Within two weeks prior to the commencement of construction by the
lowest responsive and responsible quoter, the participant shall submit payment
of their 75% of the total of the projected project cost as concerns their real
estate to the Clerk-Treasurer by check, cashier’s check or money order, payable
to the contractor, unless prior to said time property owner has entered into an
agreement with the town providing for a low interest loan to property owner for
their share of the expense, repayable to the town in three annual payments. The
initial interest charged for said agreement shall be 3%, but may from time to
time be modified based upon the cost of money to the town. In any such case,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall hold payments for the contractor until the work is
completed and accepted by the town. Payment required hereunder may be delivered
in person to the Town Hall, mailed to the Town Hall at 1201 North Townline
Road, LaGrange, Indiana 46761, and any party wishing to become involved in the
low interest loan program for said sidewalks, shall apply at the Town Hall
through the Town Manager, and all of said process must be completed on or
before two weeks prior to construction, or the moneys paid hereunder. Any party
who fails to make and complete arrangements prior to said two-week period shall
be deemed ineligible for said low interest loan. Loan documents shall be in the
form attached and fully executed prior to said two-week period.
   (I)   A letter of approval will need to be obtained from the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office.
   (J)   Handicap accessible sidewalks shall be installed, paying special
attention to ramping at intersections, meeting ADA federal standards for slope
and width.
   (K)   Replacement will be limited to a minimum width of four-foot sidewalks
and a maximum width matching the existing sidewalk found on the property,
running the length of the property in the public right-of-way.
   (L)   Any payment due and owing hereunder made more than 30 days after the
date said payment is due, there shall be added to such payment a 10% penalty.
The penalty shall be calculated by multiplying 0.10 times the amount of the
payment that is made late. All costs of collection, including attorneys’ fees,
shall be assessed against any late payment, and the real estate, as provided
herein. If any payment is not made upon its due date, upon ten days’ advance
written notice, all sums due and owing shall become a lien on the real estate
and shall be collected as such lien, and may by affidavit tendered from the
Town Clerk-Treasurer to the County Recorder and the County Auditor be placed
upon the real estate tax roles of the county and assessed and collected as any
other lien against the real estate of any such party, or pursuant to any note
and mortgage executed hereunder.
(2014 Code, § E1.1(4))
§ 152.49  FAILURE OF OWNER TO CONSTRUCT.
   If the owner or occupant of any lot or premises shall neglect, refuse or
fail to build, rebuild or repair any sidewalk, after notice shall have been
given as herein provided, within the time and in the manner as the Town Council
shall require, the town shall cause the sidewalk to be so built, rebuilt or
repaired, and the expense incurred thereby, together with a penalty of 10% of
the expenses in addition thereto, shall be collected by special assessment
levied upon the lot or premises adjacent to or abutting upon, the sidewalk,
according to law.
(2014 Code, § E1.1(5))
§ 152.50  SIDEWALK GRADE; ESTABLISHMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Manager, whenever requested in writing by
two or more freeholders residing on the line of any street in the town, to
establish the grade for the sidewalk on said street, and no sidewalk shall be
constructed within the town unless the grade thereof and other specifications
have been established by the direction of the Town Manager.
(2014 Code, § E1.1(7))
§ 152.51  SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Concrete mix design for sidewalks shall have a cement factor of six
bags (limestone) per cubic yard.
   (B)   One-half inch expansion joint shall be placed where new sidewalk meets
old sidewalk, where new sidewalk meets curb, and at five-foot intervals.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be five feet in width, except in case of the
continuation of an existing sidewalk. Minimum sidewalk width shall be four
feet.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall have a minimum thickness of four inches for
pedestrian traffic and six inches for vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Slope sidewalk toward street one-fourth inch per foot.
   (F)   Sidewalks shall remain the property and responsibility of the property
owner.
   (G)   Place contraction joints at intervals no greater than the width of
sidewalk being constructed. Within area of six-inch thick concrete, a maximum
spacing of ten feet is allowed.
   (H)   The surface shall have a “slip-resistant” texture or “broom finish”.
   (I)   A general permit will need to be obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office. The general permit shall require a fee of $25.
   (J)   Construction standards and detail drawings shall be maintained by Town
Manager and available upon request.
   (K)   Two inspections by the Town Manager are required, the first when the
sidewalk is formed and before it is poured; the second is the final inspection
when the work is completely finished, including all grade work and re-seeding
of grass. The Town Manager is authorized by the Town Council to inspect the
project site and, upon satisfactory completion of the work, authorize payment.
Payment will consist of the 75% paid by the participant and 25% paid by the
town.
(2014 Code, § E1.1(8))
§ 152.52  ICE, SNOW OR DEBRIS.
   The removal of snow and ice from sidewalks, drives and private property
shall be as follows.
   (A)   The owner and/or occupant of any dwelling, building or subdivided lot
or property shall keep the sidewalks in front thereof clean at all times of the
year. Within 24 hours after any fall of snow, snowfall event or formation of
ice, such snow or ice shall be removed from the sidewalks.
   (B)   Where the owner and/or occupant of any property shall fail or refuse
to remove any snow from the sidewalk as required within the prescribed period
of time, the town may remove such snow, and the cost of such removal shall be
assessed to the property owner additional to any applicable fines as prescribed
by this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, push or deposit in any
manner snow, slush or ice from any drive or private property onto any street or
sidewalk in such a manner as to impede the safe progress and movement of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (D)   Persons who violate this section are responsible for the costs
incurred by the town to remove the impediment to safe progress and movement of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (E)   If a person, or persons, living at any property affected by this
section should be unable physically to comply herewith, he, she or they may
apply to the Town Council for assistance. After a hearing concerning the nature
of this physical problem, the Town Council will decide if, and to what extent,
assistance shall be granted.
   (F)   The involved property owner shall further pay any all reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs of collection attributed to enforcement of this
chapter and snow removal. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(2014 Code, § E1.1(9))
§ 152.53  EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   If the Town Manager, after consultation with the Town Marshal, should
determine that as a result of inclement weather, accident or other emergent
event or reason, a stretch of sidewalk has become dangerous to the public to
the extent requiring immediate and emergent attention, the Town Manager may
cause the employees of the town to do the following:
   (A)   Through either the use of yellow warning tape or other barricade,
place sufficient warnings and guards so as to stop the public from entering
upon the dangerous sidewalk;
   (B)   To notify the owner immediately of the existence of this subchapter
and the safety issue existing upon their property, with a direction to repair
and/or replace said sidewalk and to remove said safety issue and concern within
a reasonable time, such time to be determined by the specific type of emergency
and its danger to the public, but not to exceed ten calendar days;
   (C)   If, within said notice period, the owner has not taken steps and
advised the Town Manager of said steps satisfactory to said Town Manager, the
Town Manager shall cause the employees of the town, if the need should be
determined appropriate, to enter upon the property and remove the emergency to
the general public and cause said property to be placed in as safe a condition
as possible. The Town Manager shall then cause notice of the costs incurred as
a result of same, and said costs, in addition to any costs of collection and
attorneys’ fees, shall become a debt due and owing by the owner of said
property.
   (D)   If the owner of said property does not, within 30 calendar days,
contact the Town Manager and make arrangements for the payment in full of said
monies, said Town Manager is authorized to use any and all means possible to
collect said sums, including placing a lien against the property so affected,
and pursuing the collection of said lien and/or its foreclosure.
(2014 Code, § E1.1(10))
EXCAVATIONS AND RESTORATIONS
§ 152.65  PAVEMENTS, GUTTERS, AND CURBS.
   (A)   No person shall make any excavation into, under, or across, any
pavements (paved or unpaved), gutters, or curbs within the public rights-of-way
under town jurisdiction without first obtaining a street cut permit.
   (B)   Such permit shall be issued by and upon approval of the Town Manager
and payment of a fee of $500 having been received by the Town Clerk.
   (C)   The edges of all excavations into paved or finished pavements,
gutters, and curbs shall be sawed to a minimum depth of 1/3 the depth of the
pavement, gutter, or curb. In no case will the sawed cut be allowed to be less
than two inches.
   (D)   All excavations made into, under, across, or within two feet of the
finished edges of pavements (paved or unpaved), gutters, or curbs shall be
backfilled with “flowable fill”, also known as “controlled density fill”.
   (E)   All materials unless specifically stated otherwise, shall be in
accordance with the current Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT)
Standard Specifications.
   (F)   The flowable fill shall have a compressive strength from 50 psi
(pounds per square inch) to 150 psi.
   (G)   The flowable fill shall have a flow test spread diameter greater than
eight inches.
   (H)   The test for flow shall consist of filling a three-inch diameter by
six-inch high open ended cylinder placed on a smooth, level, nonporous surface
to the top with the flowable fill. The cylinder shall be pulled straight up
within five seconds. The spread of the fill shall be measured. The minimum
spread shall be eight  inches. This test may be performed by the Town Engineer
at the site prior to placement of the flowable fill.
   (I)   The flowable fill mix shall consist of the following materials and be
proportioned within the following limits for each material per cubic yard:
 
Portland cement 25-75 lbs per cubic yard
Fly ash         0-1500 lbs per cubic yard
Fine aggregate  2010-3050 lbs per cubic yard
Water           As required, approx. 500 lbs per cubic yard
 
   (J)   The producer may use water reducing admixtures and also air-entraining
admixtures when used in accordance with the admixture's manufacturer's
recommendations. The flowable fill may have an air content ranging from 0-25%
by volume.
   (K)   The proposed mix design shall be submitted and approved by the Street
Supervisor.  A trial batch demonstration and compressive strength report may be
required.
   (L)   Before any flowable fill is placed, any pipes, structures, or other
objects that might be displaced by the placement of the flowable fill shall be
adequately anchored, braced, or otherwise secured.
   (M)   No flowable fill shall be placed until the excavation and any required
bracing has been inspected by the Street Supervisor or his designated
representative.
   (N)   The mixture shall be delivered and discharged using ready-mix trucks
approved for use by the Indiana Department of Transportation.
   (O)   Flowable fill shall not be placed on frozen ground.
   (P)   Flowable fill shall be protected from freezing until the material has
stiffened and bleeding water subsided. When the temperature at placement is
below freezing (32º F.), the Street Department Supervisor may require that
freezing protection extend for as long as 48 hours.
   (Q)   When the flowable fill is being placed in industrial streets,
commercial streets, federal aid highway streets, or other streets used for non-
residential uses, the flowable fill shall extend to a minimum of six inches
below the finished surface of the adjacent pavement. If the final six inches of
the pavement is being finished with concrete, the concrete may be placed as
soon as bleeding water has subsided from the flowable fill. The concrete shall
meet all current INDOT specifications for Class C concrete (high early strength
concrete). The concrete shall be protected from traffic for a minimum of 48
hours. When hot asphalt is used for restoring the final six  inches, the
flowable fill shall be allowed to cure for a minimum of 24 hours, unless
otherwise approved by the Street Superintendent. The hot asphalt shall consist
of five inches of HAC #5 Base and one inch of HAC #11 surface meeting current
INDOT specifications. When the existing pavement depth is greater than six
inches, the Street Supervisor may require that the final restoration match the
existing pavement depth.
   (R)   When flowable fill is being placed in residential streets or alleys,
the flowable fill shall extend to a minimum of four and one-half inches below
the finished surface of the adjacent pavement. Placing of concrete is the same
as for industrial streets above but the depth may be four and one-half inches.
After the flowable fill has cured for 24 hours, unless otherwise approved by
the Street Supervisor, hot asphalt may be paced and shall consist of three and
one-half inches of HAC #5 Base and one inch of HAC #11 surface meeting current
INDOT specifications. When the existing pavement depth is greater than four and
one-half inches, the Street Supervisor may require that the final restoration
match the existing pavement.
   (S)   When flowable fill is being placed in unpaved streets or alleys, the
flowable fill shall extend to a minimum of six inches below the adjacent
surface grade. After the flowable fill has cured for 24 hours, unless otherwise
approved by the Street Superintendent, six  inches of compacted aggregate #73
limestone, meeting current INDOT specifications, shall be placed and compacted.
   (T)   All gutters and curbs shall be restored as near as possible to match
the existing gutters and curbs.
   (U)   Any driveways that have been disturbed shall be restored to match the
existing driveway.
   (V)   Granular backfill, meeting INDOT Specifications for B Borrow, #53
compacted aggregate, and #73 compacted aggregate, may be used when placed in
eight inch lifts and compacted to 95% of the materials maximum dry density, as
determined  by accepted AASHTO (American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials) Standards and procedures.
(Ord. 2020-09-21(B), passed 9-21-2020)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
152.01 of this chapter commits a Class C infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’
fees and costs of collection.
(2014 Code, § E1.2(6))
      (2)   Each and every police officer of the town is authorized to enforce
the prohibitions of §
152.01 of this chapter by issuing a traffic summons to any offender seen by
such officer to be in violation of §
152.01 of this chapter.
(2014 Code, § E1.2(7))
   (C)   Any person violating §§
152.15 through
152.30 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction and, upon conviction
thereof, the parent shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, plus any
and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection, payable to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. Said person shall also indemnify and hold harmless the town from and
against any and all claims, damages, costs, liabilities and expenses, including
without limitation, damages to persons or property.
(2014 Code, § E1.3(19))
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
152.45 through
152.53 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100, plus any and all attorneys’
fees and costs of collection.
      (2)   However, if the violation is neglect, refusal or failure to build,
rebuild or repair a sidewalk, and the violator builds, rebuilds or repairs the
sidewalk within 30 days of conviction, the fine imposed shall be refunded and/
or waived. Further, if the violation is the neglect, refusal or failure to
remove snow, ice, filth or other nuisance or encumbrance from a sidewalk, and
the violator removes the snow, ice, filth, nuisance or encumbrance from the
sidewalk within 48 hours of conviction, the fine imposed shall be refunded and/
or waived.
(2014 Code, § E1.1(11))
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of §
152.52 of this chapter and any person violating the provisions of §
152.52 of this chapter commits a Class A infraction and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount not to exceed $100.
(2014 Code, § E1.1(9))
   (D)   In addition to and supplemental to any fee assessments, restoration
costs or other remedies the Street Department or town may have, any person who
violates the provisions of §
152.65 may be fined $1,000  (maximum), plus all costs of collection, including
attorney fees.
(Ord. 2020-09-21(B), passed 9-21-2020)
CHAPTER 153:  TREES
Section
   
153.01   Maintenance of trees and shrubs
   
153.02   Shade trees; obstruction
   
153.03   Enforcement; notification
   
153.04   Unsafe conditions; removal
   
153.05   Index of trees
   
153.06   Lien
§ 153.01  MAINTENANCE OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   The maintenance of trees and shrubs located upon a right-of-way is, and
shall remain, the duty of the owner of the adjacent property.
(2014 Code, § D2.7(1))
§ 153.02  SHADE TREES; OBSTRUCTION.
   All shade trees within the town, or near any public street or alley in said
town, shall be kept trimmed so that the lowest branch of each tree shall be at
a distance from the level of the street or alley along which such tree or trees
of not less than eight feet and that the owner or owners of the land on which
such trees stand shall be and they are hereby required to keep such trees so
trimmed to comply with this chapter.
(2014 Code, § D2.7(2))
§ 153.03  ENFORCEMENT; NOTIFICATION.
   Should any person whose land abuts any street or alley in said town fail to
trim his or her trees so as to cause same to comply with this chapter, it shall
be the duty of the Marshal of said town, upon approval of the Town Council so
to do, to notify the owner to at once trim up such tree or trees to comply
herewith, that should such owner fail, neglect or refuse to comply with such
notice within ten days from time of receiving same, that such Marshal shall
have, and he or she hereby is granted authority to employ a tree trimming
service to trim such trees as to cause same to comply with this chapter.
(2014 Code, § D2.7(3))
§ 153.04  UNSAFE CONDITIONS; REMOVAL.
   Whenever any property owner of the town shall become aware of an unsafe
condition caused by a tree or shrub located upon the right-of-way of the town,
said property owner should notify the town immediately in order that the town
can take corrective action by the removal of said dangerous condition.
(2014 Code, § D2.7(4))
§ 153.05  INDEX OF TREES.
   The town shall establish an index of trees which property owners have
requested to be trimmed or removed for cosmetic or maintenance reasons, and to
the extent possible, budgeting funds for the removal of said trees based upon a
need basis as established by a priority list prepared by the Town Street
Superintendent and at the discretion of the Town Council, each property owner
shall be responsible for 50% of the cost of maintaining or removing of said
tree or shrub, and the Town Council shall pay the remaining 50% of the costs
incurred in maintaining or removing said tree or shrub.
(2014 Code, § D2.7(5))
§ 153.06  LIEN.
   The moneys advanced by the Town Council shall become a lien upon the real
estate and shall be assessed and collectible as are property taxes of the
subject land owner.
(2014 Code, § D2.7(6))
CHAPTER 154:  MOBILE DWELLING UNITS
Section
   
154.01   Definition
   
154.02   Prohibition; regulations
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01  DEFINITION.
   A MOBILE DWELLING UNIT shall mean living quarters such as a mobile home,
house trailers, truck bodies, bus bodies, railroad cars, shacks and any
improved shelter which can be carried, transported or towed from one place to
another without the use of regular house moving equipment; that use for living
quarters shall include such acts as sleeping, preparing meals, bathing, dish
washing, laundering clothing or any other activity which generates waste
materials.
(2014 Code, § E2.1(1))
§ 154.02  PROHIBITION; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to occupy, maintain or permit to be occupied or
maintained within the corporate limits of the town any mobile dwelling unit as
defined in this ordinance; provided that this prohibition shall not apply to
such mobile dwelling units as have heretofore been lawfully installed under
existing laws and ordinances at the time such mobile dwelling units were
located; but no such mobile dwelling unit shall be moved to a new location, nor
enlarged; and, provided further that, such prohibition shall not apply to
exceptions otherwise established in this chapter.
   (B)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply to the following
situations:
      (1)   To a house trailer and mobile home situated in a legally
established mobile home park operating under license of, and approved by the
state’s Board of Health; provided further that, said mobile home park also meet
the minimum standards set out in the Federal Housing Administration Minimum
Property Standards for Mobile Home Courts August 1962 revision and amendments
thereto as well as U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare - Public
Health Service’s Recommended Ordinance Governing Mobile Home Parks, as revised
January 1968;
      (2)   One house trailer may be occupied by the owner and family as
temporary living quarters for a period not exceeding 14 days in any one
calendar year;
      (3)   A temporary permit may be issued for use as living quarters for the
owner on the site while erecting a permanent dwelling, but for not to exceed a
total period of 180 days;
      (4)   One house trailer may be parked on the rear of residential or
commercial lot, but not used for living quarters or occupied in any way;
provided that, said lot have a minimum size of 10,000 square feet; and
      (5)   Stock of unoccupied mobile homes may be stored upon any lot where
the same are kept for sale in the ordinary course of business.
(2014 Code, § E2.1(2))  Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter commits a Class C
infraction and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $50, plus any and all attorneys’ fees and costs of collection. Each day
that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(2014 Code, § E2.1(3))
CHAPTER 155:  UNDERGROUND AND BURIED UTILITY DISTRICTS
Section
   
155.01   Establishment
   
155.02   No construction or erection in right- of-way
   
155.03   Utilities placed underground or buried
   
155.04   Existing poles, wires and the like
§ 155.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The town hereby establishes an Underground and Buried Utilities District
(“area”) to be in effect and to apply throughout the town’s right-of-way and is
hereinafter defined as follows:
   (A)   In all areas of the town where no overhead or above ground utilities,
utility facilities, overhead lines or associated overhead structures used or
useful in supplying electric, communication or similar and associated services
currently exist;
   (B)   In all areas of the town where planned road projects, redevelopment
areas and/or economic development areas provide for and require underground
buried utilities and utility facilities, including, but not limited to,
electric, communication or similar and associated services; and
   (C)   All other areas of right-of-way or proposed right-of-way throughout
the town, whether or not above ground utilities or utility facilities currently
exist.
(Res. 2017-04-28, passed - -2017)
§ 155.02  NO CONSTRUCTION OR ERECTION IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no person, corporation or
utility shall erect or construct within the town’s right-of-way any pole,
overhead line, or associated overhead structure used or useful in supplying
electric, communication or similar associated services.
(Res. 2017-04-28, passed - -2017)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.03  UTILITIES PLACED UNDERGROUND OR BURIED.
   Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Works Board, all utilities
located within the town’s right-of-way shall be placed underground and/or
buried.
(Res. 2017-04-28, passed - -2017)
§ 155.04  EXISTING POLES, WIRES AND THE LIKE.
   All existing overhead poles, wires and/or utility transmission lines may
remain within the town’s right-of-way and shall not be replaced or relocated
without prior written authorization of the Works Board.
(Res. 2017-04-28, passed - -2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Annexing certain territory, contiguous to the
2014-6-2      6-2-2014    corporate boundaries of the town; zoned Agricultural;
                          land needed and used by the town for its cemetery
 
TABLE II:  FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.    Date Passed Description
                             Cumulative Building and Sinking Fund for Municipal
-                - -         Sewers
                             (2014 Code, § A4.1)
-                - -         Cumulative Capital Development Fund
                             (2014 Code, § A4.2)
-                - -         Petty Cash Fund
                             (2014 Code, § A4.3)
-                - -         Parks Development Donation Fund
                             (2014 Code, § A4.4)
-                - -         Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
                             (2014 Code, § A4.5)
-                - -         Police Donation Fund
                             (2014 Code, § A4.6)
-                - -         Police Reserve Donation Fund
                             (2014 Code, § A4.7)
-                - -         Fire Department Donation Fund
                             (2014 Code, § A4.8)
-                - -         Gaming Revenue Sharing Fund
                             (2014 Code, § A4.9)
-                - -         Utilities Cash Change Fund
                             (2014 Code, § A4.10)
-                - -         Rainy Day Fund
                             (2014 Code, § A4.11)
-                - -         Promotional Account
                             (2014 Code, § A4.12)
R. 2019-10-21(a) 10-21-2019  Incentive fund regarding vandalism
                            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 2014 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites            Code Section
1-1-1-5               10.04
1-1-1-7               10.12
1-1-1-8               10.06
1-1-5-1               10.11
1-1-6-1               10.08
3-8-5-1 et seq.       31.04
3-8-5-2(B)            31.04
3-8-5-2(D)            31.04
3-8-5-10              31.04
                      32.18;
                      35.15;
5-3-1                 35.18;
                      35.19;
                      35.20
5-4-1                 31.21
5-14-1.5              31.07
5-14-1.5-6.1          31.08
5-14-3 et seq.        31.09
5-14-3-3              31.08;
                      31.09
5-14-3-4(b)(12)       31.08
5-14-3-8              31.09
6-1.1-12.1-1          32.16
6-1.1-12.1-1 et seq.  32.15;
                      32.18
8-22-2                31.08
8-22-3                31.08
9-13-2-1 et seq.      70.03
9-13-2-94             70.02
9-21-1-1              70.02
9-21-1-2              70.02
9-21-1-3              70.02
9-21-1-4              70.02
9-21-1-5              70.02
9-21-4-3              70.02
9-22-1-1 et seq.      90.15;
                      90.99
22-9-1-4 et seq.      91.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.      91.01
22-9.5-2-2            91.02
22-9.5-2-3            91.02
22-9.5-2-4            91.02
22-9.5-2-8            91.02
22-9.5-2-9            91.02
22-9.5-2-11           91.02
22-9.5-2-13           91.02
22-9.5-3              91.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.      91.09
22-9.5-4-8            91.10
22-9.5-5              91.02
22-9.5-5-1            91.03
22-9.5-6              91.02;
                      91.10
22-11-14-10.5 et al.  92.01
itle 25               31.08
31-37-3               130.08
                      151.01;
32-30-8-1 et seq.     151.02;
                      151.06;
                      151.08
33-36-2-1             34.01
34-28-5-1 et seq.     130.04
35-45-17-2            110.99
35-46-3-8 et seq.     93.47
36-1-3-8(a)(10)       10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)    53.99
36-1-5-4              31.02
36-1-6-1 et seq.      130.04
36-1-20.2             31.02
36-1-21               31.02
36-1.1-12.1 et seq.   32.18
36-1.1-12.1-1 et seq. 32.19;
                      32.20
36-1.1-12.1-1(3)(B)   32.18
36-5-2-2              10.15
36-5-5-5              31.21
                      35.02;
36-5-6-6              35.18;
                      35.19
36-5-7-4              31.22
36-5-7-6              31.22
36-7-4                31.23
                      90.40;
36-7-9                90.41;
                      90.99
36-7-9-2              90.40
36-7-10.1-3           90.27
36-7-10.1-4           90.27
36-7-12-1 et seq.     32.01
36-7-12-4             32.01
36-7-12-9             32.01
36-7-12-17            32.01
36-7-12-18.5          32.01
36-7-12-19            32.01
36-7-12-20            32.01
36-7-12-21            32.01
36-8-2-4              90.15
36-8-12-17            36.41
                      
 
REFERENCES TO 2014 CODE
 
2014 Code 2020 Code
2014 Code 2020 Code
A1.2(2)   10.05
A1.3(1)   30.02
A1.3(2)   30.02
A1.3(3)   30.02
A1.3(4)   30.02
A1.3(5)   30.02
A1.3(6)   30.02
A1.3(7)   30.02
A1.3(8)   30.02
A1.3(9)   30.02
A1.3(10)  30.02
A1.4      30.01
A2.1(1)   31.20
A2.1(2)   31.20
A2.2(1)   31.21
A2.2(2)   31.21
A2.2(3)   31.21
A2.2(4)   31.21
A2.2(5)   31.21
A2.2(6)   31.21
A2.2(7)   31.21
A2.2(8)   31.21
A2.3(1)   31.22
A2.3(2)   31.22
A2.3(3)   31.22
A2.3(4)   31.22
A2.4(1)   31.01
A2.4(2)   31.01
A2.4(3)   31.01
A2.4(4)   31.01
A2.4(5)   31.01
A2.5(1)   31.02
A2.5(2)   31.02
A2.5(3)   31.02
A2.5(4)   31.02
A2.5(5)   31.02
A2.5(6)   31.02
A2.5(7)   31.02
A2.5(8)   31.02
A2.5(9)   31.02
A2.5(10)  31.02
A2.5(11)  31.02
A2.5(12)  31.02
A2.5(13)  31.02
A2.5(14)  31.02
A3.1(1)   35.01
A3.1(2)   35.02
A3.1(3)   35.02
A3.1(4)   35.03
A3.1(5)   35.03
A3.2(1)   35.15
A3.2(2)   35.16
A3.2(3)   35.17
A3.2(4)   35.18
A3.2(5)   35.19
A3.2(6)   35.20
A3.2(7)   35.21
A3.3(1)   35.35
A3.3(2)   35.36
A3.3(3)   35.37
A3.3(4)   35.38
A3.3(5)   35.39
A3.3(6)   35.40
A3.3(7)   35.41
A3.4(1)   36.15
A3.4(2)   36.16
A3.4(3)   36.17—
          36.27
A3.5(1)   36.01
A3.5(2)   36.01
A3.5(3)   36.01
A4.1      TSO Table II
A4.2      TSO Table II
A4.3      TSO Table II
A4.4      TSO Table II
A4.5      TSO Table II
A4.6      TSO Table II
A4.7      TSO Table II
A4.8      TSO Table II
A4.9      TSO Table II
A4.10     TSO Table II
A4.11     TSO Table II
A4.12     TSO Table II
A5.1(1)   34.01
A5.1(2)   34.02
A5.1(3)   34.03
A5.1(4)   34.04
A5.1(5)   34.05
A5.1(6)   34.05
A5.1(8)   34.06
A5.2      36.40
A5.3      36.41
A5.4(1)   36.42
A5.4(2)   36.42
A5.4(3)   36.42
A5.4(4)   36.42
A5.4(5)   36.42
A5.5      36.43
A5.6      36.44
A5.7      36.45
1.1       33.01
2.1       33.02
C1.1      52.01
C1.2      52.02
C1.3(1)   52.03
C1.3(2)   52.03
C1.4(1)   52.04
C1.4(2)   52.04
C1.4(3)   52.04
C1.5(1)   52.05
C1.5(2)   52.05
C1.6(1)   52.06
C1.6(2)   52.06
D1.1(1)   70.01
D1.1(2)   70.02
D1.1(3)   70.03
D1.1(4)   70.05
D1.1(5)   72.99
D1.1(6)   72.99
D1.1(7)   72.99
D1.1(8)   70.06
D1.1(9)   70.07
D1.1(10)  70.99
          70.20—
D1.2(1)   70.22;
          72.99
D1.2(2)   Ch. 74, Schd. I
D1.2(3)   70.23
D1.2(4)   70.24;
          70.99
D1.2(5)   70.25;
          70.99
D1.3(1)   71.01
D1.3(2)   71.02
D1.3(3)   71.03
D1.3(4)   71.04
D1.3(5)   71.05
D1.3(6)   71.06
D1.3(7)   71.99
D1.4(1)   72.01
D1.4(2)   72.02
D1.4(3)   72.02
D1.4(4)   72.03
D1.4(5)   72.04
D1.4(6)   72.05
D1.4(7)   72.06
D1.4(8)   72.07
D1.4(9)   72.08
D1.4(10)  72.09
D1.4(11)  72.10
D1.4(12)  72.99
D1.5(1)   70.08
D1.5(2)   70.08
D1.5(3)   70.08
D1.5(4)   70.99
D1.6(1)   70.09
D1.6(2)   70.09
D1.6(3)   70.09
D2.1(1)   90.15
D2.1(2)   90.16
D2.1(3)   90.17
D2.1(4)   90.18
D2.1(5)   90.19
D2.1(6)   90.20
D2.1(7)   90.21
D2.1(8)   90.22
D2.1(9)   90.23
D2.1(10)  90.24
D2.1(11)  90.25
D2.1(12)  90.99
D2.1(13)  90.26
D2.2(1)   90.40
D2.2(2)   90.41
D2.2(3)   90.41
D2.2(4)   90.42
D2.2(5)   90.43
D2.2(6)   90.99
D2.3(1)   90.01
D2.3(2)   90.01
D2.3(3)   90.01
D2.3(4)   90.01
D2.3(5)   90.01
D2.5(1)   90.02
D2.5(2)   90.02
D2.5(3)   90.02
D2.3(6)   90.99
D2.4(1)   92.15
D2.4(2)   92.16
D2.4(3)   92.17
D2.4(4)   92.17
D2.4(5)   92.18
D2.4(6)   92.19
D2.4(7)   92.99
D2.4(8)   92.20
D2.5(1)   90.99
D2.6(1)   92.01
D2.6(2)   92.01
D2.6(3)   92.99
D2.7(1)   153.01
D2.7(2)   153.02
D2.7(3)   153.03
D2.7(4)   153.04
D2.7(5)   153.05
D2.7(6)   153.06
D3.1(1)   93.01
D3.1(2)   93.01
D3.1(3)   93.99
D3.2(1)   93.35
D3.2(2)   93.36
D3.2(3)   93.37
D3.2(4)   93.38
D3.2(5)   93.39
D3.2(6)   93.40
D3.2(7)   93.41
D3.2(8)   93.42
D3.2(9)   93.43
D3.2(10)  93.44
D3.2(11)  93.35
D3.2(12)  93.45
D3.2(13)  93.35
D3.2(14)  93.46
D3.2(15)  93.35
D3.2(16)  93.44
D3.2(17)  93.35
D3.2(18)  93.47
D3.2(19)  93.41
D3.2(20)  93.43
D3.2(21)  93.41
D3.2(22)  93.41
D3.2(23)  93.99
D3.2(24)  93.49
D4.1      130.01;
          130.99
D4.2      130.02;
          130.99
D4.3      130.03;
          130.99
D4.4      130.04;
          130.99
D4.5      130.05;
          130.99
D4.6      130.06;
          130.99
D4.7      130.07;
          130.99
D4.8      130.08;
          130.99
E1.1(1)   152.45
E1.1(2)   152.46
E1.1(3)   152.47
E1.1(4)   152.48
E1.1(5)   152.49
E1.1(7)   152.50
E1.1(8)   152.51
E1.1(9)   152.52;
          152.99
E1.1(10)  152.53
E1.1(11)  152.99
E1.2(1)   152.01
E1.2(2)   152.01
E1.2(3)   152.01
E1.2(4)   152.01
E1.2(5)   152.01
E1.2(6)   152.99
E1.2(7)   152.99
E1.3(1)   152.15
E1.3(2)   152.16
E1.3(3)   152.17
E1.3(4)   152.17
E1.3(5)   152.18
E1.3(6)   152.19
E1.3(7)   152.20
E1.3(8)   152.20
E1.3(9)   152.21
E1.3(10)  152.22
E1.3(11)  152.23
E1.3(12)  152.24
E1.3(13)  152.25
E1.3(14)  152.26
E1.3(15)  152.27
E1.3(16)  152.28
E1.3(17)  152.29
E1.3(18)  152.30
E1.3(19)  152.99
E1.4(1)   152.31
E1.4(2)   152.31
E2.1(1)   154.01
E2.1(2)   154.02
E2.1(3)   154.99
E2.2(1)   150.07
E2.2(2)   150.07
E2.2(3)   150.99
E2.3(1)   150.08
E2.3(2)   150.99
E2.4(1)   151.01
E2.4(2)   151.02
E2.4(3)   151.03
E2.4(4)   151.04
E2.4(5)   151.05
E2.4(6)   151.06
E2.4(7)   151.07
E2.4(8)   151.08
E2.4(9)   151.09
E2.4(10)  151.99
E2.5      51.01
E2.5(3)   51.99
E2.6(1)   110.01
E2.6(2)   110.02
E2.6(3)   110.03
E2.6(4)   110.04
E2.6(5)   110.05
E2.6(6)   110.06
E2.6(7)   110.07
E2.6(8)   110.06
E2.6(9)   110.08
E2.6(10)  110.09
E2.6(11)  110.10
E2.6(12)  110.11
E2.6(13)  110.12
E2.6(14)  110.13
E2.6(15)  110.14
E2.6(16)  110.15
E2.6(17)  110.16
E2.6(18)  110.99
E2.6(20)  110.99
E2.7(1)   111.01
E2.7(2)   111.02
E2.7(3)   111.03
E2.7(4)   111.04
E2.7(5)   111.04
E2.8(1)   112.01
E2.8(2)   112.02
E2.8(3)   112.99
E2.9(1)   150.01
E2.9(2)   150.01
E2.9(3)   150.99
E2.9(4)   150.01
E2.10(1)  150.02
E2.10(2)  150.02
E2.10(3)  150.02;
          150.99
E2.11(1)  150.03
E2.11(2)  150.03
E2.11(3)  150.03
E2.11(4)  150.03
E2.11(5)  150.03
E2.11(6)  150.03
E2.11(7)  150.03
E2.11(8)  150.99
E2.11(9)  150.03
E2.12(1)  91.01
E2.12(2)  91.02
E2.12(3)  91.03
E2.12(4)  91.04
E2.12(5)  91.05
E2.12(6)  91.06
E2.12(7)  91.07
E2.12(8)  91.08
E2.12(9)  91.09
E2.12(10) 91.10
E3.1(1)   150.35
E3.1(2)   150.36
E3.1(3)   150.37
E3.1(4)   150.38
E3.1(5)   150.39
E3.1(7)   150.40
E3.1(8)   150.41
E3.1(9)   150.41
E3.1(10)  150.41
E3.1(11)  150.42
E3.1(12)  150.43
E3.1(13)  150.43
E3.1(14)  150.41
E3.1(15)  150.41
E3.1(16)  150.44
E3.1(17)  150.99
E3.1(18)  150.99
E3.1(19)  150.45
E3.1(20)  150.46
E3.1(21)  150.47
E3.2(1)   150.04
E3.2(2)   150.04
E3.2(3)   150.04
E3.2(4)   150.04
E3.3(1)   150.05
E3.3(2)   150.05
E3.3(3)   150.05
E3.4(1)   150.06
E4.1      32.15
E4.1(1)   32.01
E4.1(2)   32.01
E4.1(3)   32.01
E4.1(4)   32.01
E4.1(5)   32.01
E4.1(6)   32.01
E4.1(1)   32.16
E4.1(2)   32.16
E4.1(3)   32.17
E4.1(4)   32.18
E4.1(5)   32.18
E4.1(6)   32.18
E4.1(7)   32.19
E4.1(8)   32.20
E5.1(1)   31.23
E5.1(2)   31.23
          
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
2017-04-28    - -2017     155.01—
                          155.04
2018-04-16    4-16-2018   31.06
2019-9-3(b)   - -2019     53.40
2019-10-21(a) 10-21-2019  TSO Table II
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.       Date Passed Code Section
-              - -         TSO Table II
-              - -         TSO Table II
-              - -         TSO Table II
-              - -         TSO Table II
-              - -         TSO Table II
-              - -         TSO Table II
-              - -         TSO Table II
-              - -         TSO Table II
-              - -         TSO Table II
-              - -         TSO Table II
-              - -         TSO Table II
-              - -         TSO Table II
2010-4-19-A    5-3-2010    33.01
                           53.01—
                           53.15;
2014-01-20     1-20-2014   53.30—
                           53.39;
                           53.99
2014-6-2       6-2-2014    TSO Table I
2014-6-2-C     6-2-2014    90.99
                           150.20—
2014-06-016(B) 6-16-2014   150.23;
                           150.99
2014-9-2(b)    9-2-2014    Ch. 74, Schd. I
2014-10-06     10-6-2014   51.01;
                           51.99
2015-05-18     5-18-2015   33.01
2015-06-01     6-1-2015    35.17
2015-07-6      7-6-2015    36.02
2015-07-14     7-14-2015   72.99
2015-07-20     7-20-2015   36.43
2015-08-17     9-8-2015    53.16
2017-04-17     4-17-2017   Ch. 74, Schd. I
2018-03-19A    3-19-2018   72.99
                           93.15—
2018-03-19(B)  3-19-2018   93.20;
                           93.99
2018-6-4A      6-4-2018    Ch. 74, Schd. I
2018.10.15     10-15-2018  31.05
2019-02-24     1-24-2019   72.99
2019-03-04(A)  - -2019     31.04
2019-9-3(c)    9-3-2019    31.03
2019-9-3(a)    10-21-2019  Ch. 74, Schd. I
2020-01-06     1-6-2020    92.02
2020-05-04A    6-4-2020    Ch. 73, Schd. II
2020-05-04B    6-4-2020    70.04
2020-05-04C    6-4-2020    Ch. 73, Schd. I
2020-09-08(A)  10-5-2020   53.16
2020-09-21(A)  9-21-2020   52.01
2020-09-21(B)  9-21-2020   152.65;
                           152.99
                           90.17;
2020-09-21(C)  9-25-2020   90.27;
                           90.99
2020-10-5(C)   10-6-2020   31.09
                          
 
 
