LAPORTE COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-4-20
State legislation current through 2020 A.L.S. #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
COUNTY OFFICIALS
Board of County Commissioners
Rich Mrozinski
Joseph Haney
Sheila Matias
County Council
Terry Garner
Randy Novak
Mike Yagelski
Mike Rosenbaum
Earl Cunningham
Connie Gramarossa
Mike Mollenhauer
******
Timothy Stabosz, County Auditor
Mike Schultz, County Assessor
Heather Stevens, Clerk of the Circuit Court
Lynn Swanson, County Coroner
John Lake, Prosecuting Attorney
Elzbieta Bilderback, County Recorder
John Boyd, County Sheriff
Tony Hendricks, County Surveyor
Joie Winski, County Treasurer
******
Circuit Court Judge, Thomas Alevizos
Superior Court #1 Judge, Jaime Oss
Superior Court #2 Judge, Richard Stalbrink
Superior Court #3 Judge, Jeff Thorne
Superior Court #4 Judge, Greta Friedman
 
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.   COUNTY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “LaPorte
County Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted.  Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws.  Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code.  All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect, unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted.  The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content.  These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.  This code shall be construed by the
following rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the
legislative intent or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense.  Technical  words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate 
meaning in law shall be understood according to  their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of these persons, unless
otherwise declared in the section giving authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      BOARD.  The County Board of Commissioners.
      COMMISSIONERS.  The County Board of Commissioners.
      COUNCIL.  The County Council.
      COUNTY.  LaPorte County, Indiana, and any territory outside of the county
over which it has jurisdiction by virtue of any constitutional or statutory
provisions.
      HIGHWAY.  Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
      MONTH.  One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver.  Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING.  When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.  Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters.  Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR.  One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable.  If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) of this section does not affect the
operation of division (B) of this section with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices.  Reference to a public office or officer shall
be deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this county
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations.  Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the
Commission or Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division,
department, officer, agency, authority, or instrumentality of any government,
and that name designation is incorrectly stated; or at the time of the
effective date of that ordinance or subsequent thereto, the rights, powers,
duties, or liabilities placed with that entity are or were transferred to a
different entity; then the named board, bureau, commission, department,
division, officer, agency, authority, or instrumentality, whether correctly
named in the ordinance at its effective date or not, means that correctly named
entity, or the entity to which the relevant duties, liabilities, powers, and
rights were transferred. 
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express that intent, the spelling shall be corrected and a word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.  No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such an error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.  If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides.  The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
that section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides.  The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of a penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of that chapter or section.  In addition to an
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. 
Example:  (I.C. 36-5-2-2)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.  Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, seeI.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws. 
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.  The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been
enacted.  In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500.  A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11:  COUNTY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   County seal
§ 11.01  COUNTY SEAL.
   The Board of Commissioners’ official seal is described as follows:  A circle
within which appear the words “Board of Commissioners LaPorte County, In.” in
Roman capital letters, with an inner circle within which a shock of wheat with
a hand sickle is depicted.
(`88 Code, § 1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Counties authorized to have a corporate seal, see I.C. 36-1-4-4
   County executive mandated to use a common seal, see I.C. 36-2-4-11
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   COUNTY GOVERNMENT
   
31.   COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
   
32.   DEPARTMENTS, COUNCILS, BOARDS, AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
      
APPENDIX:  CITIZEN DRAINAGE BOARD REDISTRICTING
   
33.   DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
   
34.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
APPENDIX:  COUNTY VEHICLE DECAL
   
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
   
36.   FINANCES; TAXATION AND FUNDS
   
37.   FEES, LICENSES, AND PERMITS
   
38.   ETHICS POLICY
   
39.   DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30:  COUNTY GOVERNMENT
Section
County Board of Commissioners
   
30.01   Board of Commissioners
   
30.02   Regular and special meetings
   
30.03   Three Commissioner districts
   
30.04   Liaison duties
County Council
   
30.15   Council
   
30.16   Duties
   
30.17   Four Council districts
Ordinances and Resolutions; Procedure
   
30.30   Ordinances; two readings required
   
30.31   Resolutions
   
30.32   Readings
   
30.33   Codification and publication
Elections
   
30.45   Election Precincts
   
30.46   Accessibility of polling places and the administration of HAVA funds
Statutory reference:
   County executive, see I.C. 36-2-2-2
   County fiscal body, see I.C. 36-2-3-2
   Division of the county into districts, see I.C. 36-2-2-4
COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 30.01  BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. 
   (A)   The three-member Board of Commissioners duly elected pursuant to
applicable state law shall be the county executive, and shall transact the
business of the county.
   (B)   The term of office for each Commissioner is four years beginning
January l following the election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(`88 Code, § 2-1)
§ 30.02  REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commissioners meet on the first Tuesday of the month at 6:00 p.m.
and on the third Tuesday at 10:00 a.m., throughout the year, except for
January, which will be at 10:00 a.m. for both meetings.
   (B)   Meetings will be held at the LaPorte County Annex and Security
Complex, meeting room number 3, lobby level.
   (C)   Special meetings or short sessions of the Board of Commissioners shall
be called pursuant to the applicable state law.
(`88 Code, § 2-2)  (Am. Res. 2006-01, passed - - )
Statutory reference:
   Regular meetings, see I.C. 36-2-2-6
   Special meetings, see I.C. 36-2-2-8
§ 30.03  THREE COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following territory within the county is divided into County
Commissioner districts.  The districts contain the following precincts,
defined, to wit:
      (1)   District 1.  Consisting of the following precincts: Duneland Beach,
Galena 1, Galena 2, Hudson, Long Beach, Michiana Shores 1, Michiana Shores 2,
MC01, MC02, MC03, MC04, MC05, MC06, MC07, MC08, MC09, MC10, MC16, MC18, MC19,
MC20, MC22, MC23, MC24, Pottawattamie Park, Springfield 1, Springfield 2,
Springfield 3, Trail Creek 1.
      (2)   District 2.  Consisting of the following precincts: Center 1,
Center 2, Johnson, Kankakee 1, Kankakee 2, Kingsbury, Kingsford Heights,
Lincoln, LP25, LB26, LP27, LP28, LP29, LP30, LP31, LP32, LP33, LP34, LP35,
LP36, LP37, LP38, LP39, LP40, LP41, LP42, LP43, LP44, Pleasant, Union,
Washington, Wills.
      (3)   District 3.  Consisting of the following precincts: Cass, Center 3,
Center 4, Center 5, Clinton, Coolspring 1, Coolspring 2, Coolspring 3,
Coolspring 4, Coolspring 5, Dewey, Hanna, LaCrosse, MC11, MC12, MC13, MC14,
MC15, MC17, MC21, MC45, New Durham 1, New Durham 2, Noble, Prairie, Scipio 1,
Scipio 2, Trail Creek 2, Wanatah 1, Wanatah 2, Westville.
   (B)   Commissioners elected at the general elections of 2000 for full four-
year terms shall continue to hold office as residents of the new districts in
which their legal residence is located until the terms for which they were
elected have expired.
(`88 Code, § 2-3)  (Ord. 2001-25, passed 12-18-02; Am. Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-
20-11; Am. Res. 2014-14, passed 12-17-14; Am. Res. 2014-15, passed 12-17-14;
Am. Ord. 2015-12, passed 12-16- 15)
§ 30.04  LIAISON DUTIES.
   At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners each calendar year, the
Board shall decide over which departments it shall have liaison duties.
(`88 Code, § 2-4)
COUNTY COUNCIL
§ 30.15  COUNCIL.
   (A)   The seven-member County Council duly elected pursuant to applicable
state law, shall be the fiscal body of the county.
   (B)   The term of office for each Council member is four years, beginning
January 1 after his or her election, and continuing until a successor is
elected and qualified.
(`88 Code, § 2-8)
Statutory reference:
   Term of office, see I.C. 36-2-3-3
§ 30.16  DUTIES.
   The County Council shall carry out all duties assigned to it by applicable
state law.
(`88 Code, § 2-9)
§ 30.17  FOUR COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following territory within the county is divided into County
Council Districts.  The districts contain the following precincts, defined, to
wit:
      (1)   District 1.  Consisting of the following precincts: Cass, Center 5,
Clinton, Dewey, Hanna, La Crosse, LP 1-2, LP 2-1, LP 2-2, LP 2-3, LP 2-4, LP 5-
1, LP 5-2, LP 5-3, LP 5-4, New Durham 1, New Durham 2, Noble, Prairie, Scipio
1, Scipio 2, Wanatah 1, Wanatah 2, Westville.
      (2)   District 2.  Consisting of the following precincts: Center 1,
Center 2, Center 3, Center 4, Coolspring 1, Coolspring 3, Duneland Beach,
Hydrology/Lake Michigan, Long Beach, MC 5-1, MC 5-2, MC 5-3, MC 5-4, MC 6-1, MC
6-2, MC 6-3A, MC 6-3B, Michiana Shores 1, Michiana Shores 2, Pottawattamie
Park, Springfield 1, Springfield 2, Springfield 3, Trail Creek 1, Trail Creek
2.
      (3)   District 3.  Consisting of the following precincts: Coolspring 2,
Coolspring 4, Coolspring 5, MC 1-1, MC 1-2, MC 1-3, MC 2-1, MC 2-2, MC 2-3, MC
2-4, MC 3-1, MC 3-2A, MC 3-2B, MC 4-1, MC 4-2, MC 4-3, MC 4-4, New Durham 1,
New Durham 2.
      (4)   District 4.  Consisting of the following precincts: Galena 1,
Galena 2, Hudson, Johnson, Kankakee 1, Kankakee 2, Kingsford Heights,
Kingsbury, Lincoln, LP 1-1, LP 1-3A, LP 1-3B, LP 3-1, LP 3-2, LP 3-3A, LP 3-3B,
LP 3-3C, LP 4-1, LP 4-2A, LP 4-2B, LP 4-3, Pleasant, Union, Washington, Wills.
   (B)   Councilpersons elected at the general elections of 2002 for full four-
year terms shall continue to hold office as residents of the new districts in
which their legal residence is located until the terms for which they were
elected have expired.
   (C)   A copy of the map is on file in the LaPorte County Surveyor’s Office.
(`88 Code, § 2-10)  (Ord. 91-22, passed 12-16-91; Am. Ord. 2001-27, passed 12-
18-01; Am. Ord. 2002-01, passed 1-15-02; Am. Ord. 2011-15, passed 12-20-11)
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURE
§ 30.30  ORDINANCES; TWO READINGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Ordinances shall be read two times before being passed, and no
ordinance shall pass on the same day in which it is introduced except as
provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   An ordinance may be passed on the day it is introduced upon the
unanimous vote of all Commissioners on a separate motion to waive the
provisions of division (A) above.
(`88 Code, § 2-190)  (Ord. 95-10, passed 3-27-95)
§ 30.31  RESOLUTIONS.
   A resolution may pass upon one reading on the day it is introduced.
(`88 Code, § 2-191)  (Ord. 95-10, passed 3-27-95)
§ 30.32  READINGS.
   (A)   Upon the introduction of an ordinance or a resolution, it shall be
read into the record unless all of the Commissioners have been presented full
written copies of the ordinance or resolution at least three days prior to the
date of introduction.  In the latter case, upon unanimous vote, the reading may
be by title only.
   (B)   All other readings shall be by title only. 
(`88 Code, § 2-192)  (Ord. 95-10, passed 3-27-95)
§ 30.33  CODIFICATION AND PUBLICATION.
   (A)   All ordinances shall be a part of the county code.
   (B)   Unless specifically required by the terms of the ordinance, only those
ordinances required by law to be published shall be published.
(`88 Code, § 2-193)  (Ord. 95-10, passed 3-27-95)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.45  ELECTION PRECINCTS.
   Unless otherwise stated, the description of the boundary lines used herein
to delineate election precincts shall follow the centerline of all rights-of-
way.
   (A)   Springfield 1.  Commencing at the intersection of the centerline of
County Road 500 West and the centerline of County Road 800 North for the point
of beginning thence east along the centerline of County Road 800 North to the
centerline of State Road 39 thence south along the centerline of State Road 39
to the centerline of US Highway 20 thence west along the centerline of US
Highway 20 to the centerline of County Road 400 West thence south along the
centerline of County Road 400 West to south line of Springfield Township thence
west along the south line of Springfield Township to the centerline of US
Highway 35 thence northwesterly along the centerline of US Highway 35 to the
easterly right of way line of Interstate 94 thence northerly along the easterly
right of way line of Interstate 94 to the centerline of Warnke Road thence
southeasterly along the centerline of Warnke Road to the centerline of County
Road 525 East thence north along the centerline of County Road 525 East to the
centerline of County Road 750 North thence east along the centerline of County
Road 750 North to the centerline of County Road 500 West thence north along the
centerline of County Road 500 West to the point of beginning.
   (B)   Springfield 2.  Commencing at the easterly right of way line of
Interstate 94 and the north line of Springfield Township for the point of
beginning thence east along the north line of Springfield Township to the east
line of Springfield Township thence south along the east line of Springfield
Township to the south line of Springfield Township thence west along the south
line of Springfield Township to the centerline of County Road 400 West thence
north along the centerline of County Road 400 West to the centerline of US
Highway 20 thence easterly along the centerline of US Highway 20 to centerline
of State Road 39 thence north along the centerline of State Road 39 to the
centerline of County Road 800 North thence west along the centerline of County
Road 300 North to the centerline of County Road 500 West thence north along the
centerline of County Road 500 West to easterly right of way line of Interstate
94 thence northerly along the easterly right of way line of Interstate 94 to
the point of beginning.
   (C)   Springfield 3.  Commencing at the intersection of the north line of
Springfield Township and the corporation limits of the town of Michiana Shores
thence east along the north line of Springfield Township to the easterly right
of way line of Interstate 94 thence southerly along the easterly right of way
line of Interstate 94 to centerline of County Road 500 West thence south along
the centerline of County Road 500 West to the centerline of County Road 750
North thence west along the centerline of County Road 750 North to the
centerline of County Road 525 West thence south along the centerline of County
Road 525 West to centerline of Warnke Road thence northwesterly along the
centerline of Warnke Road to the easterly right of way line of Interstate 94
thence southerly along the easterly right of way line of Interstate 94 to the
centerline of US Highway 20 thence west along the centerline of US Highway 20
to the centerline of US Highway 35 thence southeasterly along the centerline of
US Highway 35 to the south line of Springfield Township thence west along the
south line of Springfield Township to the west line of Springfield Township
thence north along the west line of Springfield Township to the southerly
corporation limits of the town of Michiana Shores thence northeast along the
south line of the corporation limits of the town of Michiana Shores to the east
corporation limits of the town of Michiana Shores thence northerly along the
east corporation limits of the town of Michiana Shores to the point of
beginning.
   (D)   Washington Township.  All of Washington Township except the following:
  Commencing at the northwest corner of the corporation limits of the town of
Kingsbury thence east along the north corporation limits of the town of
Kingsbury and following the corporation limits of the town of Kingsbury to its
intersection with County Road 500 South thence west along the centerline of
County Road 500 South approximately 543 feet thence south to the southerly
right of way line of the Grand Trunk Railroad thence southwesterly along the
southerly right of way line of the Grand Trunk Railroad to a point
approximately 340 feet northeast of the centerline of US Highway 35 thence
south approximately 330 feet thence east to the northerly right of way line of
the Grand Trunk Railroad thence southwesterly along the northerly right of way
line of the Grand Trunk Railroad to the centerline of Main Street thence
southerly along the centerline of Main Street to a point approximately 100 feet
north of the centerline of US Highway 6 thence west approximately 435 feet
Thence northeasterly approximately 4,738 feet to a point approximately 433 feet
west of the centerline of Main Street thence east to the centerline of Main
Street thence northerly along the centerline of Main Street and the centerline
of Main Street extended to the point of beginning.
   (E)   Duneland Beach.  Commencing at the intersection of the centerline of
Moore Road and the centerline of Lake Shore Drive for the point of
beginning thence northeasterly along the centerline of Lake Shore Drive to the
west corporation limits of the town of Michiana Shores thence south along the
west corporation limits of the town of Michiana Shores to north corporation
limits of the city of Michigan City thence westerly along the north corporation
limits of the city of Michigan City to the centerline of Moore Road thence
northwesterly along the centerline of Moore Road to the point of beginning.
   (F)   Kingsbury.  Commencing at the northwest corner of the corporation
limits of the town of Kingsbury thence east along the north corporation limits
of the town of Kingsbury and following the corporation limits of the town of
Kingsbury to its intersection with County Road 500 South thence west along the
centerline of County Road 500 South approximately 543 feet thence South to the
southerly right of way line of the Grand Trunk Railroad thence southwesterly
along the southerly right of way line of the Grand Trunk Railroad to a point
approximately 340 feet northeast of the centerline of US Highway 35 Thence
south approximately 330 feet thence east to the northerly right of way line of
the Grand Trunk Railroad thence southwesterly along the northerly right of way
line of the Grand Trunk Railroad to the centerline of Main Street thence
southerly along the centerline of Main Street to a point approximately 100 feet
north of the Commencing at the northwest corner of the corporation limits of
the town of Kingsbury centerline of US Highway 6 thence west approximately 435
feet thence northeasterly approximately 4,738 feet to a point approximately 433
feet west of the centerline of Main Street thence east to the centerline of
Main Street thence northerly along the centerline of Main Street and the
centerline of Main Street extended to the point of beginning.
   (G)   Kingsford Heights.  All that lies within the corporation limits of the
town of Kingsford Heights.
   (H)   Lacrosse.  Commencing at intersection of US Highway 421 and the north
corporation limits of the town of LaCrosse thence east along the north
corporation limits of the town of LaCrosse and following the corporation limits
to the centerline of Oneida Street thence east along the centerline of Oneida
Street extended approximately 800 feet thence south approximately 171 feet
thence west 111 feet thence south approximately 100 feet thence west
approximately 84 feet thence north approximately 100 feet thence west
approximately 80 feet thence south approximately 100 feet thence west to the
east corporation limits of the town of LaCrosse thence south along the east
corporation limits of the town of LaCrosse and following the corporation limits
to the point of beginning.
   (I)   Dewey Township.  All of Dewey Township except the following: 
Commencing at intersection of US Highway 421 and the north corporation limits
of the town of LaCrosse thence east along the north corporation limits of the
town of LaCrosse and following the corporation limits to the centerline of
Oneida Street thence east along the centerline of Oneida Street extended
approximately 800 feet thence south approximately 171 feet thence west 111 feet
thence south approximately 100 feet thence west approximately 84 feet thence
north approximately 100 feet thence west approximately 80 feet thence south
approximately 100 feet thence west to the east corporation limits of the town
of LaCrosse thence south along the east corporation limits of the town of
LaCrosse and following the corporation limits to the point of beginning.
   (J)   Long Beach.  All that lies within the corporation limits of the town
of Long Beach.
   (K)   Michiana Shores 1.  Commencing at the intersection of the Indiana
state line and the westerly corporation limits of the town of Michiana Shores
for the point of beginning thence east along the Indiana state line to the
centerline of El Portal Drive thence south along the centerline of El Portal
Drive to the northerly corporation line of the city of Michigan City thence
west along the northerly corporation line of the city of Michigan City to the
westerly corporation line of the town of Michiana Shores thence northerly along
the westerly corporation line of the town of Michiana Shores to the point of
beginning.
   (L)   Michiana Shores 2.  Commencing at the intersection of the Indiana
State line and the centerline of El Portal Drive for the point of beginning
thence east along the north Indiana state line to the centerline of Brookside
Drive thence southwesterly along the centerline of Brookside Drive to the east
corporation limits of the town of Michiana Shores thence south along the east
corporation line of Michiana Shores to centerline of Old Grand Beach Road
thence southwesterly along the centerline of Old Grand Beach Road to the
centerline of El Portal Drive thence north along the centerline of El Portal
Drive to the point of beginning.
   (M)   Pottawattamie Park.  All that lies within the corporation limits of
the town of Pottawattamie Park.
   (N)   Trail Creek 1.  Commencing at the centerline of Roeske Avenue and the
Centerline of Michigan Boulevard for the point of beginning thence
southeasterly along the centerline of Michigan Boulevard to the eastern
corporation limits of the town of Trail Creek thence south along the eastern
corporation limits of the town of Trail Creek to the centerline of Coolspring
Avenue thence west along the centerline of Coolspring Avenue to the west
corporation limits of the town of Trail Creek thence north along the west
corporation limits of the town of Trail Creek to the point of beginning.
   (O)   Trail Creek 2.  Commencing at the west corporation limits of the town
of Trail Creek and the centerline Coolspring Avenue to centerline of Menke Road
Thence South to the centerline of US Highway 20 Thence west along the
centerline of US Highway 20 to a point approximately 120 feet west of the
centerline of Roeske Avenue Thence north to the point of beginning.
   (P)   Wanatah 1.  All that part of the corporation of Wanatah that lies in
Cass Township.
   (Q)   Wanatah 2.  Commencing at point on the south line of Clinton Township
approximately 1325 feet east of the centerline of County Road 1100 West for the
point of beginning thence north approximately 1702 thence east to the west
right of way line of the former Monon Railroad thence north along said right of
way line to the north corporation limits of the town of Wanatah thence east
along the north corporation limits of the town of Wanatah and following the
corporation limits to the south line of Clinton Township thence west along the
south line of Clinton Township to the point of beginning.
   (R)   Westville.  Commencing at the intersection of the west right of way
line of the former Monon Railroad and the centerline of County Road 250 North
extended for the point of beginning thence east along the centerline of County
Road 250 North extended to the centerline of US Highway 421 thence south along
the centerline of US Highway 421 to the north corporation limits of the town of
Westville as annexed by ordinance no 927 and recorded in document number
1912704 recorded in the office of the LaPorte County Recorder thence east along
said north corporation limits and following the corporation limits to a point
on the centerline of Circle Drive approximately 365 feet west of the centerline
of US Highway 421 thence south to the south line of New Durham Township thence
west along the south line of New Durham Township to a point approximately 955
feet west of the centerline of County Road 1100 West thence north approximately
940 feet thence west approximately 1,170 feet thence north approximately 7,025
feet to a point on the westerly corporation limits of the town of Westville
thence west along the corporation limits of the town of Westville and following
said corporation limits to the intersection of the north corporation limits
with the west right of way line of the former Monon Railroad thence continuing
along said westerly right of way line to the point of beginning.
   (S)   Center 1.  Commencing on the north line of Center Township and the
centerline of US Highway 35 for the point of beginning thence east along the
north line of Center Township to the east line of Center Township thence south
along the east line of Center Township to the northerly corporation line of the
city of LaPorte thence easterly along the north line of the corporation limits
of the city of LaPorte to the centerline of US Highway 35 thence northwesterly
along the centerline of US Highway 35 to the point of beginning.
   (T)   Center 2.  Commencing the northwest corner of Center Township for the
point of beginning thence east along the north line of Center Township to the
centerline of US Highway 35 thence southeasterly along the centerline of US
Highway 35 to its intersection with the centerline of Johnson Road thence
northwesterly along the center line of Johnson Road to the centerline of County
Road 400 West thence northerly along the centerline Of County Road 400 West to
the center line of County Road 400 North thence northwesterly along the
centerline of County Road 400 North to the west line of Center Township thence
north along the west line of Center Township to the point of beginning.
   (U)   Center 3.  Commencing on the west line of Center Township and the
centerline of County Road 400 North for the point of beginning thence
southeasterly along the center line of County Road 400 North to the centerline
of County Road 400 West thence southerly along the centerline of County Road
400 West to the northerly right of way line of the US Highway 80/90 thence
southwesterly along said northerly right-of-way line to the west line of Center
Township thence north along the west line of Center Township to the point of
beginning.
   (V)   Center 4.  Commencing on the west line of Center Township and the
northerly right of way line of US Highway 80/90 for the point of beginning
thence northeasterly along said northerly Right of way line to the centerline
of Johnson Road thence east along the centerline of Johnson Road to the
centerline of County Road 400 West thence south along the centerline of County
Road 400 West to the centerline of Waverly Road thence southeasterly along the
centerline of Waverly Road to the westerly corporation limits of the city of
LaPorte thence westerly and following the corporation limits of the City of
LaPorte to its intersection with the south line of Center Township thence west
along the south line of Center Township to the west line of Center Township
thence north along the west line of Center Township to the point of beginning.
   (W)   Center 5.  Commencing at the centerline of County 400 West and the
centerline of Johnson Road for the point of beginning thence easterly along the
centerline of Johnson Road to the westerly corporation limits of the City of
LaPorte thence southerly and following the westerly corporation limits of the
city of LaPorte to its intersects with the centerline of Waverly Road thence
northwesterly along the centerline of Waverly Road to the centerline of County
Road 400 West thence north along the centerline of County Road 400 West to the
point of beginning.
   (X)   Coolspring 1.  Commencing at the intersection of the centerline of
County Road 450 North and the centerline of Wozniak Road thence northeasterly
along the centerline of County Road 450 North to the centerline of Johnson Road
thence southeasterly along the centerline of Johnson Road to the east line of
Coolspring Township thence south along the east line Of Coolspring Township to
the south line of Coolspring Township thence west along the south line of
Coolspring Township to the centerline of Wozniak Road thence northerly along
the centerline of Wozniak Road to the point of beginning.
   (Y)   Coolspring 2.  Commencing at a point where the centerline of County
Road 300 North intersects the west line of LaPorte County for the point of
beginning thence east along the centerline of County Road 300 North to the
centerline of US Highway 421 thence south along the centerline of US Highway
421 to the intersection of County Road 200 North thence easterly along County
Road 200 North to the centerline of Wozniak Road thence southerly along the
centerline of Wozniak Road to the south line of Coolspring Township thence west
along the south line of Coolspring Township to the west line of LaPorte County
Thence north along the west line of LaPorte County to the point of beginning.
   (Z)   Coolspring 3.  Commencing at the intersection of Johnson Road and the
southerly right of way line of Interstate 94 thence easterly along the
southerly right of way line of Interstate 94 to the east line of Coolspring
Township thence south along the east line of Coolspring Township to the
centerline of Johnson Road thence northwesterly along the centerline of Johnson
Road to the centerline of County Road 450 North thence west along the
centerline of County Road 450 North to the centerline of Wozniak Road thence
north along the centerline of Wozniak Road to the southwesterly right of way
line of Interstate 94 thence southerly along said right of way line to the
centerline of Johnson Road thence northerly along the centerline of Johnson
Road to the point of beginning.
   (AA)   Coolspring 4.  Commencing at a point where the northerly right of way
of the Conrail Railroad intersects the west line of LaPorte County for the
point of beginning thence northeasterly along the northerly right of way line
of the Conrail Railroad to the north line of Coolspring Township thence east
along the north line of Coolspring Township to the westerly corporate limit of
Michigan City thence following the corporate limits of Michigan City to a point
where the west right of way line of Clover Lane intersects with the centerline
of Pahs Road thence East along the centerline of Pahs Road to the centerline of
Johnson Road thence southeasterly along the centerline of Johnson Road to where
it intersects the centerline of Wozniak Road thence Southerly along the
centerline of Wozniak Road to the centerline of County Road 200 North thence
west along the centerline of County Road 200 North to the Centerline of U S Hwy
421 Thence North along the centerline of US Highway 421 to the centerline of
County Road 300 North thence west along the centerline of County Road 300 North
to the west line Of LaPorte County thence north along the west line of LaPorte
County to the point of beginning.
   (BB)   Coolspring 5.  Commencing at the centerline of Coolspring Avenue and
the east corporation limits of the city of Michigan City for the point of
beginning thence east along the centerline of Coolspring Avenue to the
centerline of Sal Court thence south along the centerline of Sal Court to the
centerline of Welnetz Road thence east along the centerline of Welnetz Road to
its intersection with the west line of Lot 2 Bartlett Woodland Acres extended
thence south along said west line extended to the centerline of U S Highway 20
thence east along the centerline of US Highway 20 approximately 1721 feet
thence south approximately 460 feet thence West approximately 165 feet thence
South approximately 686 feet thence southwesterly approximately 630 feet thence
south to the centerline of Pahs Road Thence west along the centerline of Pahs
Road to the easterly corporation limits of the city of Michigan City Thence
northerly and westerly along the easterly corporation limits of the City of
Michigan City to the point of beginning; and commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Menke Road and the east line of the corporation limits of the
town of Trail Creek thence east along the centerline of Menke Road and said
centerline extended to the east line of line of Coolspring Township thence
south along the east line of Coolspring Township to the southerly right of way
line of Interstate 94 thence southwesterly along the said southerly right of
way line to the centerline of Johnson Road thence northwesterly along the
centerline of Johnson Road to the centerline of Pahs Road thence west along the
centerline of Pahs Road approximately 2,675 feet thence north approximately
1494 feet thence northeasterly approximately 249 feet thence north
approximately 1,095 feet to the centerline of US Highway 20 thence easterly
along the centerline of US Highway 20 to the east corporation limits of the
town of Trail Creek thence north along said east line to the point of
beginning.
   (CC)   Galena 1.  Commencing at the northwest corner of Galena Township for
the point of beginning Thence east along the north line of Galena Township to
the centerline of County Road 300 East thence south along the centerline of
County Road 300 East to the centerline of County Road 1000 North thence west
along the centerline of County Road 1000 North to the centerline of200 East
thence south along the centerline of County Road 200 East to the centerline of
County Road 850 North thence east along the centerline of County Road 850 North
to the centerline of County Road 300 East thence south along the centerline of
County Road 300 East to the centerline of County Road 800 North thence west
along the centerline of County Road 800 North to the centerline of County Road
200 East Thence south along the centerline of County Road 200 East to the South
line of Galena Township thence west along the south line of Galena Township to
the west line of Galena Township thence north along the west line of Galena
Township to the point of beginning.
   (DD)   Galena 2.  Commencing at the intersection of the centerline of County
Road 300 East and the north line of Galena Township for the point of beginning
thence east along the north line of Galena Township to the east line of Galena
Township thence south along the east line of Galena Township to the south line
of Galena Township thence west along the south line of Galena Township to the
centerline of County Road 200 East thence north along the centerline of County
Road 200 East to the intersection of County Road 800 North thence east along
the centerline of County Road 800 North to the centerline of County Road 300
East thence north along the centerline of County Road 300 East to the
centerline of County Road 850 North thence west along the centerline of County
Road 850 North to the centerline of County Road 200 East thence north along the
centerline of County Road 200 East to the centerline of County Road 1000 North
thence east along the centerline of County Road 1000 North to the centerline of
County Road 300 East thence north along the centerline of County Road 300 East
to the point of beginning.
   (EE)   New Durham 1.  Commencing at the northwest corner of New Durham
Township for the point of beginning thence along the north line of New Durham
Township to the centerline of Wozniak Road thence southerly along the
centerline of Wozniak Road to the centerline Of State Road 2 thence west along
the centerline of State Road 2 to a point 394 east of the southwest corner of
Section 16 Township 36 North Range 4 West being the southeast corner of a
parcel of land as annexed to the town of Westville by ordinance no 927 recorded
in document number 192074 in the office of the LaPorte County Recorder thence
north along the east line of afore mentioned parcel a distance of 450 feet
thence west along the north line of said parcel to the centerline of US Highway
421 thence north along the centerline of US Highway 421 to the centerline of
County Road 250 North extended thence west along the centerline of County Road
250 North extended to the westerly right of way line of the former Monon
Railroad thence southerly along the westerly right of way line of the former
Monon Railroad to the westerly corporation limits of the town of Westville
thence southerly along the westerly corporation limits of the town of Westville
and following the westerly corporation limits of the town of Westville to a
point where Coulter Road intersection the centerline of U S Highway 6 thence
northwesterly along the centerline of US Highway 6 to a point of the west
corporation limit of the town of Westville thence south along the west
corporation limits of the town of Westville to the eastwesterly centerline of
Section 30 Township 36 North Range 4 West thence east approximately 768 feet
thence south approximately 7,025 feet thence east approximately 1,170 feet
thence south approximately 940 feet to the south line of New Durham Township
thence west along the south line of New Durham Township to the west line of New
Durham Township thence north along the west line of New Durham Township to the
point of beginning.
   (FF)   New Durham 2.  Commencing at the intersection of Wozniak Road and the
north line of New Durham Township for the point of beginning thence east along
the north line of New Durham Township to the northeast corner of New Durham
Township thence south along the east line of New Durham Township to the south
line of New Durham Township thence west along the south line of New Durham
Township to a point approximately 915 feet west of the centerline of US Highway
421 thence north to a point on the centerline of Circle Drive approximately 365
feet west of the centerline of US Highway 421 thence east along the corporation
limits of the town of Westville and following the corporation limits of the
town of Westville to its intersection with the centerline of State Road 2
thence east along the centerline of State Road 2 to the intersection of Wozniak
Road thence northerly along the centerline of Wozniak Road to the point of
beginning.
(Ord. 2001-26, passed 12-18-01; Am. Ord. 2011-13, passed 12-20-11)
§ 30.46 ACCESSIBILITY OF POLLING PLACES AND THE ADMINISTRATION OF HAVA FUNDS.
   (A)   Subject to the availability of Title III requirements monies to the
county under Help America Vote Act of 2002, no later than March 31, 2006, the
county will make permanent and temporary improvements to each polling place in
order to comply with the polling place accessibility standards set forth in
I.C. 3-11-8, and to the extent possible, make any additional improvements
identified in the HAVA polling place survey that are not specifically required
by state or federal law.
   (B)   The county will submit a report to the Indiana Election Division no
later than December 31, 2005. The report under this section must list the
polling place accessibility problems identified in the survey of polling places
and indicate whether these problems have been resolved by temporary or
permanent improvements or whether the polling place has been relocated to an
accessible facility. If the report indicates that the problems have not yet
been resolved, the report must indicate how the county will resolve the problem
no later than March 31, 2006. The county agrees to submit any additional
reports required by the Indiana Election Division until the county reports that
the polling place accessibility requirements identified in the survey have been
resolved. The report must be certified as accurate by majority vote of the
county election board, following review and opportunity for written comments to
be added to the report by the local advisory council described in division (D)
below.
   (C)   As of December 31, 2005, each polling place will contain at least one
voting system to permit a voter who is blind or visually impaired to vote
privately and independently.
   (D)   The county legislative body will adopt an ordinance to establish a
local advisory council comprised of representatives of the disabilities
community and elderly voters to provide assistance to the county in choosing
polling places. The council may include any number of members, but must include
at least two representatives of the disabilities communities or elderly voters.
The County Executive shall appoint the members, and shall encourage county
residents with a variety of backgrounds, partisan affiliations, and
perspectives to participate. If county residents are not available to serve on
the council, the County Executive may partner with the Governor's Planning
Council on Disabilities to carry out the functions of the council.
   (E)   The county fiscal body pledges that Title III and Section 102 HAVA
monies received will be used to pay any outstanding obligations incurred by the
county for the voting system purchase subject to reimbursement.
   (F)   The county fiscal body pledges that if the obligations incurred by the
county to obtain this voting system have been paid in full or in part as of
this date, that the remaining Title III and Section 102 reimbursement funds
will be used to improve the administration of elections for federal office in
the county.
   (G)   No later than 30 days after adoption of this section, the county will
establish a separate non-reverting fund account in which all Title III and
Section 102 reimbursement funds will be deposited.
   (H)   The county agrees to refund the State of Indiana no later than May 1,
2006 an amount equal to the Title III and Section 102 reimbursement funds
received by the county if the Secretary of State of Indiana and the Co-
Directors of the Indiana Election Division determine on April 1, 2006 that the
county has not:
      (1)   Provided at least one voting system in each polling place of the
county no later than December 31, 2005 to permit a voter who is blind or
visually impaired to vote privately and independently in accordance with I.C.
3-11-15; or
      (2)   Honored one or more of the certifications made by the county in
this resolution regarding polling place accessibility or the permitted uses of
these funds.
(Res. 2005-05, passed 7-19-05; Am. Res. 2005-07, passed 7-19-05)
CHAPTER 31:  COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   County Auditor
   
31.02   Other elected and appointed county officials
   
31.03   Deputies and employees; appointment
   
31.04   Building Inspector and Building Commissioner
   
31.05   Bond required
   
31.06   Mileage allowance
   
31.07   Holiday schedule
   
31.08   Administrative Law Judge
   
31.09   General administrative policy
   
31.10   Random drug testing
   
31.11   Benefits for employees on active military duty
   
31.12   Reimbursement of expenses
   
31.13   Employee handbook adopted by reference
   
31.14   Conflict of interest policy
§ 31.01  COUNTY AUDITOR.
   (A)   The County Auditor is the fiscal officer of the county.
   (B)   The Auditor’s term is for four years and continues until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   The Auditor is charged with recording the official proceedings of the
County Board of Commissioners and the County Council meetings.
   (D)   The Auditor shall exercise and perform the duties prescribed by law
which pertain to this office.
(`88 Code, § 2-13)
Statutory reference:
   Auditor’s duties and powers, see I.C. 36-2-9-1 through 36-2-9-18
   Record-keeping, see I.C. 36-2-2-11 and 36-2-3-6
§ 31.02  OTHER ELECTED AND APPOINTED COUNTY OFFICIALS.
   The following county officials are recognized by position and applicable
state law:
   (A)   County Assessor, I.C. 36-2-15-1 et seq.
   (B)   County Auditor, I.C. 36-2-9-1 et seq.
   (C)   County Clerk, I.C. 33-10.5-8-2
   (D)   County Coroner, I.C. 36-2-14-1 et seq.
   (E)   County Prosecutor, I.C. 33-14-1-2 et seq.
   (F)   County Recorder, I.C. 36-2-112-1 et seq.
   (G)   County Sheriff, I.C. 36-2-12-1 et seq.
   (H)   County Surveyor, I.C. 36-2-12-1 et seq.
   (I)   County Treasurer, I.C. 36-2-10-1 et seq.
(`88 Code, § 2-14)
§ 31.03  DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES; APPOINTMENT.
   Deputies and employees of the county are governed by I.C. 36-2-16-1 et seq.,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(`88 Code, § 2-15)
§ 31.04  BUILDING INSPECTOR AND BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for ensuring the
enforcement of county zoning ordinances, building standards, and compliance
with related planning requirements.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner approves and issues building permits and
serves as Secretary to the Plan Commission of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   The Building Inspector and Building Commissioner shall carry out all
other duties and responsibilities approved by applicable state and local laws.
(`88 Code, § 2-123)
§ 31.05  BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   All county employees and commission members required to post an
individual surety bond for the faithful performance of their duties are
authorized to be included within the coverage of a blanket surety bond.
   (B)   Bonds in the amount of $15,000 each are approved for the Sheriff and
Captain(s).
   (C)   All other individual surety bonds shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners.
(`88 Code, § 2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds for county employees and officers, see I.C. 5-4-1-18et seq.
§ 31.06  MILEAGE ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Employees will be reimbursed for all actual mileage when required to
drive a personal vehicle to conduct authorized and assigned county business. 
Private automobile mileage will be reimbursed at a rate as established by the
State Legislature. 
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall be governed by mileage procedures set forth
in I.C. 36-2-7-4.
   (C)   A completed mileage claim form, including actual odometer readings,
must be submitted to receive reimbursement.
(`88 Code, § 2-17)  (Res. 83-3, passed 5-23-83)
Statutory reference:
   Mileage allowance for county officers, see I.C. 36-2-7-3 and 36-2-7-5
§ 31.07  HOLIDAY SCHEDULE.
   The holiday schedule shall be set forth each year in a resolution passed by
the Board of Commissioners.
(`88 Code, § 2-18)
§ 31.08  ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of LaPorte County Administrative
Law Judge.
   (B)   The Administrative Law Judge shall be an individual appointed by the
Board of Commissioners and approved by the County Attorney who is licensed to
practice law in the State of Indiana.
   (C)   The Administrative Law Judge shall be the hearing officer for the
LaPorte County Code Enforcement as provided in I.C. 36-1-6-9.  The
Administrative Law Judge shall hear and decide Code Enforcement cases arising
under ordinances as set forth in division (D) below.  The decision of the
Administrative Law Judge shall be final, subject to appeal, as set forth in
I.C. 36-1-6-9(e) and (f).  The Administrative Law Judge may impose no penalty
other than a fine, in an amount within the limits set forth in I.C. 36-1-3-8
(10), or as set forth in the section being enforced, whichever is less.
   (D)   The following chapters may be enforced through administrative
proceedings, had before the Administrative Law Judge:
      (1)   Chapter 94, Animals;
      (2)   Chapter 95, Abandoned and Junk Vehicles; and
      (3)    Chapter 151, Building Code.
(Ord. 2002-05, passed 3-12-01)
§ 31.09 GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY.
   The LaPorte County General Administrative Policy, hereby adopted by
reference as if set forth in full herein, shall be followed by all departments
of the county government.
(Res. 2005-04, passed 6-7-05; Am. Res. 2006-04, passed 2-21-06)
§ 31.10  RANDOM DRUG TESTING.
   (A)   All employees who operate county vehicles will be subjected to random
drug and alcohol testing.
   (B)   Each department will contract with an appropriate testing facility
approved by the Board of Commissioners to conduct such random drug and alcohol
testing.
(Ord. 2007-20, passed --)
§ 31.11  BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES ON ACTIVE MILITARY DUTY.
   (A)   This section applies only to county employees activated for military
duty for more than 30 consecutive days as a result of their current National
Guard or reserve status. An employee who enlists, at least for extended
military training as a result of such military enlistment, shall not qualify
under this section for the benefits provided.
   (B)   For such employee to be considered for any benefits specified herein,
the employee must provide to the LaPorte County Human Resource Director, the
following information:
      (1)   Activation orders specifying the dates of active duty and duration
of active duty.
      (2)   A military leave and earning statement showing base monthly
military pay during the period of activation.
   (C)   LaPorte County will pay the difference of the employee’s base salary
and base military pay if the base military pay is less than the employee’s base
county salary. If the base military salary is greater than or equal to the
employee’s base county salary, then no payment will be made. If the employee is
promoted during the period of activation which results in the increase of
military base pay, the employee must provide the new military leave earning
statement to the Human Resource Director for recalculation of any benefits.
   (D)   BASE MILITARY PAY shall mean the basic amount of pay for the
employee’s military pay grade which also includes the years of service.
   (E)   LaPorte County will pay the first 30 days of activation of the
employee’s insurance to include the employee’s share of insurance premiums.
After such period, the employee and their family will be covered by the
military insurance program. Upon release from active duty, LaPorte County will
pay the first 30 days of the employee’s insurance premium; however after such
time the employee will then be required to pay their share of such insurance
premium based on the employee’s return to work status.
   (F)   The employee may elect to continue with the payment of county
insurance; however, the employee will be required to pay the full premium
during the period of activation.
   (G)   It shall be the employee’s responsibility to keep the Human Resource
Director advised of the employee’s military status to include promotions and
pay increases as well as active duty discharge dates.
   (H)   Any county employee currently on active duty may submit the necessary
documents to begin benefits effective as of the effective date of Ord. 2008-09;
however, there shall be no other retroactive application.
   (I)   Any county employee currently being paid any benefits not in
compliance with this section, such benefits shall be revised to comply with
this section.
   (J)   The benefits provided herein are in addition to any benefit already
provided by federal or state law.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 3-4-08; Am. Ord. 2008-07, passed 6-3-08; Am. Ord. 2008-
09, passed 6-17-08)
§ 31.12  REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES.
   The following are reimbursable travel expenses for LaPorte County employees:
   (A)   Travel.
      (1)   No overnight room accommodations less than 50 miles from either
courthouse unless pre-approved by the Commissioners.
      (2)   Receipt is required.
      (3)   Prior approval before any attendance is necessary from the
Commissioners with all rates specified.
   (B)   Meals.
      (1)   Not to exceed $35 per day including room service if used.
      (2)   An itemized receipt with food detail purchase is required. Alcohol
will not be included.
      (3)   A 15% tip is allowed additionally if the same is listed on the
receipt.
   (C)   Mileage.
      (1)   Reimbursement for mileage will only be measured from either
courthouse or the specific office building, if not the courthouse, for which
the employee is working.
      (2)   Mileage to Indianapolis is preset at 300 miles.
      (3)   Actual mileage sheets must be submitted with the claim to include
beginning and ending places and dates.
      (4)   If two or more employees ride together, only one may claim mileage.
   (D)   Other reimbursable expenses for LaPorte County employees:
      (1)   Jury. County employees will not be paid for jury duty but will be
paid their regular salary.
Jury pay will be paid extra only if the employee is required to serve as a
juror in another county. However, in all cases of exempt employees who must
serve jury duty outside LaPorte County for partial work weeks or are subpoenaed
for witness duty inside or outside LaPorte County for partial work weeks, such
employees will receive their normal pay for the work week less jury fees
received from the court by such employees. Exempt employees who must serve jury
duty outside LaPorte County shall keep mileage paid for by the court.
      (2)   Clothing.
         (a)   Clothing is a separate budget line item. Claims for clothing
will not be allowed unless a budgetary line item has been approved for that
department or office. Specific receipts must be provided.
         (b)   The Auditor may refuse payment of any claims which do not meet
the requirements specified herein.
      (3)   Mileage.
         (a)   Mileage will not be paid to attend the official meetings of the
Commissioners or Council. All board members in every department shall receive
mileage for the site visits only.
         (b)   Mileage may be claimed if the Commissioners or Council have an
official meeting at a location other than their normal or regularly scheduled
meeting place and the employee is directed to attend. Such mileage however
shall be measured from the employee's place of business to the new meeting
location.
      (4)   Meals. In the event there is a county business event scheduled
within the county and a meal may be involved, the event and the expenditure
must be approved in advance by the Commissioners and the Council.
      (5)   Claims.
         (a)   Any claim that does not have the necessary receipts or paperwork
to verify the claim will be returned to the applicable department to be
completed and will be processed the following month.
         (b)   Any exception to this section must be by joint approval between
the Commissioners and the Council.
         (c)   There will be no payment of claims, meals or any other travel
expenses or expenditure for a spouse unless the same has been pre-approved by
the Commissioners and the Council.
(Res. 2008-11, passed 9-2-08; Am. Res. 2013-1, passed 1-2-13)
Cross-reference:
   Mileage allowance, see also §
31.06
§ 31.13  EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Laporte County Government Employee Handbook of Policies and Procedures
is hereby adopted by reference and shall be followed by all departments of
LaPorte County Government the same as if set out in full herein.
(Res. 2009-04, passed 4-21-09)
§ 31.14  CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   The County Board of Commissioners establishes and adopts the conflict of
interest policy as follows. The following divisions (A) and (B) of this section
apply to all public officials and employees of LaPorte County.
   (A)   No officers or employees of the county shall neither solicit nor
accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from consultants,
potential consultants, or parties to sub agreements, unless in accordance with
this conflict of interest policy. The aforementioned prohibition does not
include gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value under $500. Any
financial interest under $500 shall be considered not substantial in accordance
with the Code of Federal Regulations.
   (B)   This policy conforms to the standards set forth in the Code of Federal
Regulations and by the Indiana Department of Transportation. A CONSULTANT is
defined as an individual or firm providing engineering and design related
services as a party to a party to a contract with a recipient or sub recipient
of federal assistance.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 10-18-17)
CHAPTER 32:  DEPARTMENTS, COUNCILS, BOARDS, AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Departments
   
32.001   Health Department
   
32.002   Highway Department
   
32.003   Microfilm Department
   
32.004   Probation Department
   
32.005   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
32.006   Sheriff’s Department
   
32.007   Department of Redevelopment
   
32.008   Human Resources Department
Councils
   
32.020   County Council on Aging, Inc.
   
32.021   Extension Board and Extension Council
Organizations
   
32.035   Emergency Management Organization
Commissions
   
32.045   Cemetery Commission
   
32.046   Animal Control Advisory Commission
   
32.047   Pioneer Cemetery Commission
   
32.048   School Safety Commission
   
32.049   Economic Development Commission
Boards
   
32.060   Data Processing Board
   
32.061   Citizen Drainage Board
   
32.062   County Historical Association Board
   
32.063   Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals
   
32.064   Sheriff’s Merit Board
   
32.065   Weed Control Board
   
32.066   Library Board
   
32.067   Alcohol Beverage Board; appointment
   
32.068   Community Corrections Board
   
32.069   Juvenile Services Advisory Board; Juvenile Services Center
   
32.070   E-911 Executive Board
   
32.071   E-911 Advisory Board
   
32.072   Citizens Solid Waste Planning Advisory Board
   
32.073   Public Defender Board
   
32.074   Home Advisory Board
   
32.075   Human Resources Review Board
Committees
   
32.085   Overall Economic Development Program Advisory Committee
Units
   
32.095   Police Reserve Unit
Services
   
32.105   Emergency Medical Services
Authorities
   
32.115   Hospital Bonding Authority
   
Appendix:   Citizen Drainage Board Redistricting
Teams
   
32.125   Child Fatality Review Team
Statutory reference:
   Administration of county highway departments, see I.C. 8-17-3-1
   Authorization to establish county data processing agency, see I.C. 36-1-3.5-
9
   Police reserves, see I.C. 36-8-3-20
   Sheriff’s Department, see I.C. 36-8-10-1et seq.
DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.001  HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   A full-time county Health Department is established and shall be accountable
for all matters pertaining to health and sanitation within the county.
(`88 Code, § 2-131)
Cross-reference:
   Fees and services, see §§
37.30 through
37.36
   Garbage disposal regulations, see §§
50.01  through
50.06
§ 32.002  HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Department shall be headed by a County Highway Supervisor.
   (B)   (1)   A written declaration of administrative policy of the Department
shall be entered into and approved by resolution of the Board of
Commissioners. 
      (2)   Copies of the approved policies shall be open to public inspection
during regular business hours, with one copy available at the County Auditor’s
office, and one copy in the Personnel Director’s office.
(`88 Code, § 2-132)
Cross-reference:
   Road improvement monies, see §§
36.05,
36.18,
36.23,
36.35, and
36.36
§ 32.003  MICROFILM DEPARTMENT.
   The Microfilm Department is established to carry out the duties of I.C. 36-
2-17-4 and other duties as assigned to it by law.
(`88 Code, § 2-133)
§ 32.004  PROBATION DEPARTMENT.
   Each judge within the county has his or her own probation system.
(`88 Code, § 2-136)
§ 32.005  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   Chapter 33 of this code sets forth the governing laws of the Department of
Parks and Recreation.
(`88 Code, § 2-137)
Cross-reference:
   Non-reverting operating fund, see §
36.17
§ 32.006  SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A county police force is established to promote public safety,
conserve peace, repress and prevent crimes, and to carry out other public
safety functions.
   (B)   The manual on medical and fire procedures followed by the County
Sheriff’s Department is open to public inspection during regular business
hours, with one copy being on file at the County Auditor’s office and one copy
at the County Sheriff’s Department.
(`88 Code, § 2-139)
Cross-reference:
   Law Enforcement Fund, see §
36.19
   Police Reserve Unit, see §
32.095
   Sheriff’s employment program for inmates, see  §
34.03
   Sheriff’s Merit Board, §
32.064
   Special Vehicle Inspection Fund, see §
36.22
§ 32.007 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14-3, the Board hereby establishes the LaPorte County
Department of Redevelopment (the "Department"), for the purposes and to
exercise the powers set forth in the Act or otherwise granted by law.  The
Department will be controlled by a board of seven members to be known as the
LaPorte County Redevelopment Commission (the "Redevelopment Commission"), all
of whom shall be appointed in accordance with I.C. 36-7-14.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 3-15-05; Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-18-15)
§ 32.008  HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A LaPorte County Department of Human Resources is hereby established
and the position of Human Resource Director is created.
   (B)   The LaPorte County Department of Human Resources will have the
following responsibilities:
      (1)   Review and develop personnel policies as applied to all county
personnel. Develop procedures and personnel forms and make recommendations for
revisions, additions and deletions as deemed necessary concerning such policies
and procedures;
      (2)   Review and monitor job classification, compensation of county
employees. Review any needs regarding the creation of new positions or
requesting changes in job classifications or pay;
      (3)   Maintain all employment files of all county employees, assist all
office holders and department heads regarding disciplinary actions and to
provide adequate records regarding vacations, time off and insurance needs of
all county employees; and
      (4)   Prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as all other
departments of the LaPorte County government regarding the operations of the
Human Resources Department and to employ any additional personnel as provided
by the LaPorte County Council.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-23-07)
COUNCILS
§ 32.020  COUNTY COUNCIL ON AGING, INC.
   (A)   The County Council on Aging, Inc. was incorporated as a separate legal
entity on December 17, 1973.
   (B)   The county recognizes that the County Council on Aging, Inc. may
coordinate, develop, institute, evaluate, and operate services to the aging and
aged of the county, in areas including, but not limited to, the following
fields:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Income maintenance;
      (3)   Housing and living arrangements;
      (4)   Health;
      (5)   Effective use of leisure;
      (6)   Social and spiritual relationships; and
      (7)   Pre-retirement and post-retirement planning.
   (C)   The county further recognizes that its activities are also intended to
educate the aging and aged of the county by acting as a central clearing house
which receives, compiles, and disseminates information to the aging and aged of
the county and studies their problems in all areas, including, but not limited
to, the following fields:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Income maintenance;
      (3)   Housing and living arrangements;
      (4)   Health;
      (5)   Effective use of leisure;
      (6)   Social and spiritual relationships; and
      (7)   Pre-retirement and post-retirement planning.
   (D)   Concurrent with these activities, the County Council on Aging, Inc.
intends to encourage and assist in the development of programs for pre-
retirement planning, post-retirement activities, and other community measures
to meet the needs of people in their later years, and to cooperate with the
Area Agency on Aging.
(`88 Code, § 2-122)
§ 32.021  EXTENSION BOARD AND EXTENSION COUNCIL.
   (A)   The two basic groups in the county Extension Organization are the
county Extension Board and the county Extension Advisory Council.  The
Extension Board is the decision making body of the overall Extension
Organization in the county.  The Advisory Council is a voluntary organization
of local people, widely representative of the citizens of the county, and
elects the county Extension Board.
   (B)   The county recognizes that these two  groups are governed by their own
bylaws which address areas of responsibility and programs.
(`88 Code, § 2-130)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 32.035  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   There is established in the county an Emergency Management
Organization pursuant to the Civil Defense and Disaster Law of 1975.
   (B)   It shall be governed by all applicable state and local laws.
   (C)   There is established a merit system of personnel administration of the
employees of the Emergency Management Organization, excepting the Director
which shall be serviced by the state Personnel Division.
   (D)   The county Emergency Management Director is authorized and directed to
enter into agreements and arrangements with the state Department of Emergency
Management as may be necessary.
   (E)   The Emergency Management Director is designated as the appointing
officer in charge.
(`88 Code, § 2-125)  (Ord. 10-75, passed 10-20-75; Am. Ord. 2003-15, passed 9-
16-03)
COMMISSIONS
§ 32.045  CEMETERY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The county Cemetery Commission shall consist of five members.
   (B)   Members serve staggered terms so that one is appointed or reappointed
on January 1 of each year.
(`88 Code, § 2-124)
§ 32.046  ANIMAL CONTROL ADVISORY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The county Animal Control Advisory Commission is created upon the
following terms and conditions.
   (B)   The Commission shall be comprised of seven members as follows:
      (1)   One member or designee of the County Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   One member or designee of the County Council;
      (3)   The County Sheriff or his or her designee;
      (4)   The county Health Department Administrator or his or her designee;
      (5)   One county veterinarian, who has no pecuniary interests nor derives
any income from the sale of small animals; and
      (6)   Two residents of the county.
   (C)   The Commission shall meet quarterly, or more frequently if deemed
necessary.
   (D)   The Commission shall meet to discuss the operations of the county
Animal Shelter and the enforcement of Chapter 94, Animals.
   (E)   The Commission shall review reports from the county Animal Shelter and
other matters relative to small animal care and control in the county.
   (F)   The Commission shall maintain minutes of each meeting and submit a
report of any findings or recommendations to the Board of Commissioners.  Any
reports or findings shall be advisory in nature.
(`88 Code, § 2-147)  (Ord. 89-5, passed 5-30-89)
Cross-reference:
   Animal shelter fees account, see §
36.04
§ 32.047  PIONEER CEMETERY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The county Pioneer Cemetery Commission oversees cemeteries in the
county which were in existence prior to 1850.
   (B)   There are 15 county-owned cemeteries which are as follows:  Morgan
Cemetery, Nickel Plate Cemetery, Tuley Cemetery, Cross Cemetery, Day Cemetery,
Sharp Cemetery, Teeter Cemetery, Downing Cemetery, Coulter Cemetery, Miriam
Benedict Memorial Cemetery (formerly Union Chapel), Rossburg Cemetery, Norton
Cemetery, Griffin Cemetery, Webster Cemetery, and Shippeeburg Cemetery.
(`88 Code, § 4-80)
§ 32.048  SCHOOL SAFETY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose.  To establish in LaPorte County a County School Safety
Commission to promote school safety.
   (B)   Secured school safety program; definitions and general provisions.
      (1)   Definitions.
         ADM. Refers to the average daily membership determined pursuant to
I.C. 20-43-4-2.
         COMMISSION. Refers to a county school safety commission as established
under I.C. 5-2-10.1-10 (I.C. 5-2-10.1-0.3).
         COUNTY. Refers to LaPorte County, Indiana.
         FUND. Refers to the Indiana Safe Schools Fund as established under
I.C. 5-2-10.1 and I.C. 10-21-1 (I.C. 5-2-10.1-1).
         INSTITUTE. Refers to the Indiana Criminal Justice Institute
established under I.C. 5-2-6. (I.C. 5-2-10.1-1.5).
         SAFETY PLAN. Refers to any school safety plan required by the Indiana
State Board of Education (I.C. 5-2-10.1-1.7).
         SCHOOL SAFETY SPECIALIST. Shall be designated by each school
corporation in accordance with each school corporation's policy.
         SCHOOL SAFE HAVEN PROGRAM. Refers to a school program established and
operated by a school where the school must be open to students of the school
before and after normal operating hours and where the program operates with a
plan to reduce alcohol, tobacco or drug abuse; reduce violent behavior; or
promote educational progress (I.C. 5-2-10.1-8).
      (2)   General scope and intent. By the establishment of a County School
Safety Commission, county shall have access to grants from the Indiana Safe
Schools Fund, established pursuant to I.C. 10-21-1-2, and with the intent to
provide grants to establish programs under which a school corporation or
charter school may employee school resource officers, conduct a threat
assessment of its building(s); and/or purchase equipment and technology;
restrict access to school property or expedite notification of first responders
(I.C. 10-21-1-2, (a) - b)).
   (C)   County School Safety Commission; members; duties.
      (1)   County School Safety Commission: members. In accordance with I.C.
5-2-10.1-10, there is established the County School Safety Commission which
shall consist of the following individuals or their designees:
         (a)   The school safety specialist for each school corporation located
in whole or in part of the county;
         (b)   The judge of the court having juvenile jurisdiction in the
county or the judge's designee;
         (c)   The sheriff of the county or the sheriffs designee;
         (d)   The chief officer of every other law enforcement agency in the
county or the chief officer's designee;
         (e)   A representative of the juvenile probation system, appointed by
the judge described under division (C)(1)(b) of this section;
         (f)   Representatives of community agencies that work with children
within the county;
         (g)   A representative of the Indiana state police district that
serves the county;
         (h)   A representative of the Prosecuting Attorneys Council of Indiana
who specializes in the prosecution of juveniles;
         (i)   Other appropriate individuals selected by the Commission (I.C.
5-2-10.1-10  Version a).
      (2)   County School Safety Commission: members powers and duties. In
accordance with I.C. 5-2-10.1-10, upon establishment the County School Safety
Commission:
         (a)   The school safety specialist of the school corporation having
the largest ADM shall convene the initial meeting;
         (b)   Hereinafter, the Commission shall:
            1.   Annually elect a chairperson;
            2.   Perform a cumulative analysis of school safety needs within
the county;
            3.   Coordinate and make recommendations for the following:
               a.    Prevention of juvenile offenses and improving the
reporting of juvenile offenses within the schools;
               b.    Proposals for identifying and assessing children who are
at high risk of becoming juvenile offenders;
               c.    Methods to meet the educational needs of children who have
been detained as juvenile offenders;
               d.    Methods to improve communications among agencies that work
with children;
               e.    Methods to improve security and emergency preparedness;
               f.    Additional equipment or personnel that are necessary to
carry out safety plans; and,
               g.   Any other time the Commission considers necessary to
improve school safety within the school corporations within the Commission's
jurisdiction;
            4.   Provide assistance to the school safety specialists on the
Commission in developing and requesting grants for safety plans;
            5.   Provide assistance to the school safety specialists on the
Commission and the participating school corporations in developing and
requesting grants for school safe haven programs under I.C. 5-2-10.1-7, if such
program is recommended by the Commission; and/or
            6.   Assist each participating school corporation in carrying out
the school corporation's safety plans.
         (c)   The affirmative votes of a majority of the voting members of the
Commission are required for the Commission to take action on a measure,
pursuant to I.C. 5-2-10.1-10(f).
         (d)   A Commission shall receive the school safety plans described in
I.C. 20-26-18.2-2(c) for the school corporations located in the county; the
Commission may share the school safety plans with law enforcement agencies,
pursuant to I.C. 5-2-10.1-10(g).
(Ord. 2000-02, passed 3-7-00; Am. Ord. 2013-06, passed 8-7-13)
§ 32.049  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)    There is hereby established an Economic Development Department within
and for LaPorte County, which shall be controlled by a Commission known as the
LaPorte County Economic Development Commission.
   (B)   Such Economic Development Department and Economic Development
Commission shall have the powers and authorities set forth in I.C. 36-7-12-1 et
seq., as from time to time amended.
   (C)   The LaPorte County Economic Development Commission shall consist of
three members appointed by the LaPorte County Commissioners. One such member
shall be selected by the County Commissioners; one such member shall be
appointed by the County Commissioners, pursuant to a nomination by the LaPorte
County Council; and, one such member shall be appointed by the LaPorte County
Commissioners, pursuant to a nomination by the Common  Council of the City of
Michigan City.
   (D)   Appointed members of the LaPorte County Economic Development
Commission shall take office upon their appointment, and their terms shall run
from the first day of February after their original appointment, for a period
of: (a) three years, if appointed by the County Commissioners; (b) two years,
if nominated by the LaPorte County Council; and, (c) one year, if nominated by
the Common Council of the City of Michigan City.
   (E)   Upon the adoption of this secxtion, the Clerk of the LaPorte County
Council shall promptly notify the Board of Commissioners of LaPorte County, the
Common Council of the City of Michigan City, and the County Council of La Port
County, of the adoption of such section. Those bodies shall make their
selection and nominations of members of the LaPorte County Economic Development
Commission within 15 days after receiving such notice. The Board of
Commissioners of LaPorte County shall appoint each selectee and nominee within
ten days after receiving the various selections and nominations.
   (F)   From and after its establishment at the appointment of its original
membership, the LaPorte County Economic Development Commission shall function
pursuant to the terms of I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq., as from time to time amended.
(Ord. 33, passed 5-26-87)
BOARDS
§ 32.060  DATA PROCESSING BOARD.
   (A)   Membership.  The membership of the county Data Processing Board shall
be as follows:
      (1)   County Auditor;
      (2)   County Treasurer;
      (3)   County Assessor;
      (4)   A member of the County Council; and
      (5)   A member of the County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Officers.  At its first monthly meeting of the calendar year, the
county Data Processing Board shall select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
from its membership.
   (C)   Meeting dates.  The Data Processing Board shall hold its monthly
meeting on the third Thursday of every month at 10 a.m. prevailing local time
in the County Circuit Court House.  Additional meetings may be called by the
Chairperson whenever requested by a member of the Board.
   (D)   Staff.  The Data Processing Board may employ those persons it deems
necessary in order to carry out the function of providing data processing
service to all departments of county government.
   (E)   Technical advisors.  The Board may seek advice from competent
technical advisors whenever necessary.  These technical advisors may attend
meetings of the Board with all rights of regular members except the right to
vote.
   (F)   Budget.  The Board shall be responsible for preparation of an annual
budget.  The County Auditor shall supervise all expenditures and approve all
claims.
   (G)   Responsibilities.  The Board shall be responsible for approving the
purchase of all data processing equipment, such as word processors, mini-
computers, electronic typewriters, and other related equipment by any county
department in order to insure compatibility with existing systems and avoid
unnecessary purchases.
(`88 Code, § 2-126)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 12-6-82)
§ 32.061  CITIZEN DRAINAGE BOARD.
   (A)   The county Citizen Drainage Board is established in accordance with
I.C. 36-9-27-1 et seq.
   (B)   The Board established herein shall act in and be known by the name of
the county Drainage Board.
   (C)   The county Drainage Board shall consist of five voting members and the
County Surveyor, who shall serve on the Board as an ex-officio non-voting
member.
   (D)   The five voting members of the county Drainage Board shall consist of
the following:
      (1)   One Board member shall be a member of the County Board of
Commissioners.  This member shall be appointed to the county Drainage Board by
a majority vote of the County Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The remaining four members shall consist of resident free-holders
of the county who are knowledgeable in drainage matters.  These Board members
shall be appointed by the County Board of Commissioners.  The Commissioners
shall provide geographical balance to the Board by appointing one resident
free-holder from each of the three designated districts, as illustrated by the
appendix to this chapter, that being a map of the county designating Drainage
Districts One, Two, and Three.  The fourth member shall be a resident free-
holder and may reside in any of the three districts.
   (E)   The term of those persons appointed to the county Drainage Board shall
be for a period of three years, with the initial appointments made so as to
provide for the staggering of terms on an annual basis.  As and for their
initial appointments the representative from District One shall serve for one
year, the representative from District Two shall serve for two years, and the
District Three and at-large representatives shall serve an initial appointment
of three years.
(`88 Code, § 2-128)  (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-27-89)
§ 32.062  COUNTY HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION BOARD.
   (A)   The County Museum is governed by the County Historical Association
Board, which is composed of 12 members.
   (B)   The Board, created in 1906, meets the first Monday of every month.
   (C)   Partial funding requests are made to the county.
(`88 Code, § 2-134)
§ 32.063  PLAN COMMISSION AND BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Plan Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals are established, and
their powers, duties, and functions are addressed in Title XV of this code, and
applicable state law found at I.C. 36-7-4-100 et seq.
(`88 Code, § 2-135)
§ 32.064  SHERIFF’S MERIT BOARD.
   There is created the County Sheriff’s Merit Board which shall have all of
the powers and duties set out in I.C. 36-8-10-3, as it may be amended.
(`88 Code, § 2-141)
§ 32.065  WEED CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   The county Weed Control Board is established.
   (B)   The Weed Control Board shall have all of the rights, duties, and
responsibilities of I.C. 15-3-4.6-1 et seq., as it may be amended.
(`88 Code, § 2-143)
§ 32.066  LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The County Library Board is composed of seven members who are
appointed by the School Board, the Circuit Court Judge, and the County
Commissioners.
   (B)   The Board meets the last Thursday of each month.
   (C)   The Board is independent and sets policy and direction for libraries
in 17 of 21 townships.
(`88 Code, § 2-144)
§ 32.067  ALCOHOL BEVERAGE BOARD; APPOINTMENT.
   No member of the local Alcohol Beverage Board shall hold any appointive or
elective position in any political party.
(`88 Code, § 2-145)  (Res. passed 10-17-56)
§ 32.068  COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS BOARD.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners does hereby establish a body to
assist the community corrections program known as the county Community
Corrections Advisory Board.
   (B)   The aforementioned Community Corrections Advisory Board shall function
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 11-12-1-1.
   (C)   The Community Corrections Advisory Board shall consist of the
following individuals:
      (1)   The County Sheriff;
      (2)   The Prosecuting Attorney;
      (3)   The Director of the county Welfare Department;
      (4)   The Mayor of the most populous municipality in the county;
      (5)   One Judge having criminal jurisdiction, appointed by the Circuit
Court Judge;
      (6)   One Judge having juvenile jurisdiction, appointed by the Circuit
Court Judge;
      (7)   One attorney with a substantial criminal defense practice,
appointed by the Circuit Court Judge; and
      (8)   The following members, appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners:
         (a)   One probation officer;
         (b)   One educational administrator;
         (c)   One representative of a private correctional agency, if such an
agency exists in the county;
         (d)   One mental health administrator, or if there is none available
in the county, one psychiatrist, psychologist, or physician;
         (e)   One ex-offender, if available; and
         (f)   Four lay persons, at least one of whom must be a member of a
minority race if a racial minority resides in the county and a member of that
minority is willing to serve and one of who may be a County Commissioner.
   (D)   Membership of the above-enumerated individuals shall be consistent
with the provisions and terms as established in I.C. 11-12-2-2(b).
   (E)   The initial meeting of the Corrections Advisory Board shall be
scheduled consistent with the provisions of I.C. 11-12-2-2(d), and the
undertakings of the meeting shall further be consistent with the aforementioned
statute.
   (F)   The Community Corrections Advisory Board may seek assistance from the
Board of Commissioners and the County Council to carry out its work.
   (G)   (1)   The Community Corrections Advisory Board shall report its
activities on a quarterly basis to the County Board of Commissioners. 
      (2)   The actions of the Community Corrections Advisory Board are
advisory in nature and the recommendations or findings shall be reported to the
Board of Commissioners, the County Sheriff, and any other individual officer or
agency of the county appropriate under the circumstances.
   (H)   The Community Corrections Advisory Board is specifically authorized to
undertake the process of applying for financial assistance, state, local, or
federal, to facilitate the philosophy of community corrections programs of the
county.
   (I)   The Community Corrections Advisory Board will create an executive
committee consisting of not less than three or more than five members of the
Community Corrections Advisory Board. The executive committee will consist of a
County Commission member, a County Council member and one Judge if such persons
are willing to serve on such executive committee. The Chairman of the Community
Corrections Advisory Board by virtue of his or her position will automatically
be a member of the executive committee. The Community Corrections Advisory
Board will adopt procedures and guidelines for use by the executive committee
to assist the Community Corrections Director in managing the day-to-day affairs
of the Community Corrections Program. The purpose of the Community Corrections
executive committee is to allow for management continuity between the executive
director of the Community Corrections Program and the Advisory Board.
(`88 Code, § 2-148)  (Ord. 90-13, passed 9-24-90; Am. Ord. 2003-13, passed 8-
19-03)
§ 32.069  JUVENILE SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD; JUVENILE SERVICES CENTER.
   (A)   There is established a Juvenile Services Center within and for the
county which shall be controlled by the Judge of the Circuit Court under advice
from the Juvenile Services Advisory Board.
   (B)   There is established a Juvenile Services Advisory Board which shall
consist of not less than seven members nor more than nine members and which
shall act as advisors to the Judge of the Circuit Court in the Judge’s
administration and control of the Juvenile Services Center.
   (C)   (1)   The initial membership of the Advisory Board shall consist of
those individuals appointed to the county Juvenile Services Board under County
Ordinances 89-6 and 93-2.  Each of the initial Board members shall serve until
his or her term would have expired under his or her original appointment. 
      (2)   Replacement members shall be appointed for three-year terms by the
Judge of the Circuit Court, or by a judicial officer or magistrate as the Judge
of the Circuit Court may designate. 
      (3)   No member may serve more than two consecutive terms, and then must
be off of the Board for at least one full term prior to reappointment. 
   (D)   The Board shall always have representatives from the following:
      (1)   County government;
      (2)   Education;
      (3)   Law enforcement; and
      (4)   Social agencies servicing children.
(`88 Code, § 2-148.1)  (Ord. 95-9, passed 3-27-95)
§ 32.070  E-911 EXECUTIVE BOARD.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners does create the E-911 Executive
Board.
   (B)   The E-911 Executive Board shall consist of the County Sheriff, the
Chief of Police of the City of LaPorte, and the Chief of Police of Michigan
City.
   (C)   The Executive Board shall serve in concert with the E-911 Advisory
Board.
   (D)   The Executive Board shall advise the Commissioners as well as the E-
911 Advisory Board of issues relative to law enforcement in the operations of
the E-911 Enhanced Emergency Telephone System.
   (E)   The Executive Board is created, among other things, for purposes of
compliance with 240 I.A.C. 5-2-10.
(`88 Code, § 2-149)  (Res. 90-9, passed 12-3-90)
§ 32.071  E-911 ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners do hereby amend the 911 advisory body to
include a representative from the Town of Westville to serve as a member of the
E-911 enhanced emergency telephone system agency which body shall be known as
the "E-911 Advisory Board."
   (B)   (1)   The E-911 Advisory Board shall be composed of the following
individuals or their respective alternates:
         (a)   One member from the County Commissioners or an alternate;
         (b)   One member of the LaPorte County Council or an alternate;
         (c)   The Sheriff of LaPorte County or an alternate;
         (d)   The LaPorte County Emergency Medical Services Director or an
alternate;
         (e)   A representative from the Michigan City Police Department or an
alternate;
         (f)   A representative from the LaPorte City Police Department or an
alternate;
         (g)   A representative from the Michigan City Fire Department or an
alternate;
         (h)   A representative from the LaPorte City Fire Department or an
alternate;
         (i)   A representative from the Chiefs Association of LaPorte
Volunteer Fire Department or an alternate;
         (j)   The Emergency Planning Coordinator or an alternate;
         (k)   The Emergency Management Agency Director or an alternate;
         (l)   The Mayor of LaPorte or an alternate;
         (m)   The Mayor of Michigan City or an alternate;
         (n)   The Director of E-911 who shall serve in an ex-officio capacity;
         (o)   The Town of Long Beach Town Council President or an alternate;
         (p)   The Town of Westville Town Council President or an alternate;
and
         (q)   A dispatcher employed by E-911, who shall serve as an ex-officio
member;
      (2)   The above representatives or recommended alternates shall be
referred to the Board of Commissioners of LaPorte County which shall have the
authority to make a formal appointment to serve on the E-911 Advisory Board. No
individual may serve without his or her appointment being formally made by the
LaPorte County Board of Commissioners. Any appointee or his alternate shall
have full voting authority.
      (3)   Terms of appointment. Each member shall serve on an annual basis
from January 1st to December 31st of that year. For the purposes of the initial
Board, all members shall serve from the time of their appointment until
December 31st, 1991. Thereafter, all appointments shall be made on an annual
basis. The E-911 Advisory Board shall meet as frequently as it deems necessary,
but not less than quarterly.
   (C)   The E-911 Advisory Board will have the following duties and
responsibilities:
      (1)   The Board shall assist the Board of Commissioners in all matters
relative to personnel of the E-911 system. This assistance shall include, but
not be limited to, the process of taking applications and interviews for
employment, supervision of current employees advice and recommendations
regarding discipline and resolution of employee performance and employee
disputes,
      (2)   Recommend operational policies and administrative regulations
regarding the operations of E-911.
      (3)   Coordinate the participation of all member agencies and public
emergency response agencies in the county in the E-911 System.
      (4)   Said E-911 Advisory Board shall mediate disputes as and if they
arise among the public emergency response agencies. Said agencies include all
fire and police departments, EMS, and other agencies participating in the E-
911.
      (5)   The actions of the E-911 Advisory Board are advisory in nature and
their recommendations or findings shall be reported to the Board of
Commissioners of LaPorte County immediately after said finding or
recommendations have been made.
(`88 Code, § 2-149.1)  (Ord. 91-1, passed 1-22-91; Am. Ord. 94-5, passed 2-28-
94; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 10-16-13; Am. Ord. 2013-13, passed 10-16-13)
§ 32.072  CITIZENS SOLID WASTE PLANNING ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners does establish an advisory board to serve
in the capacity of advising and assisting in the planning of solid waste
management as envisioned by I.C. 13-21-3 et seq.
   (B)   This Board shall be known as the Citizens Solid Waste Planning
Advisory Board.
   (C)   The aforementioned Solid Waste Planning Advisory Board shall be
composed of three individuals from each of three County Commissioner Districts,
comprising a nine-member Board.
   (D)   The members appointed to the Citizens Solid Waste Planning Advisory
Board shall be appointed formally by the Board of Commissioners and shall serve
until that time when their service is no longer required as contemplated and
provided by I.C. 13-21-3 et seq.
   (E)   The Advisory Board shall have the following duties and
responsibilities:
      (1)   The Board shall function pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 13-21-
3 et seq.
      (2)   Its function shall be to recommend to and advise the Board of
Commissioners relative to the creation of Solid Waste Management Districts and
the establishment of a Solid Waste Management Committee.
      (3)   Additionally, the Citizens Advisory Board shall have the authority
to recommend and advise the Commissioners relative to the spectrum of issues
involving solid waste management planning.
   (F)   The actions of the Citizens Solid Waste Planning Advisory Board are
advisory in nature and the recommendations and findings shall be reported to
the Board of Commissioners immediately after the findings or recommendations
are made.
   (G)   The Citizens Solid Waste Planning Advisory Board shall meet no less
than once a month.  Minutes shall be maintained of every meeting and the
minutes and/or any findings or recommendations shall be reported immediately to
the Board of Commissioners.
(`88 Code, § 2-150)  (Res. 90-8, passed 11-13-90)
Cross-reference:
   Solid Waste Management District, see §§
50.20 through
50.27
§ 32.073  PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD.
   (A)   The county Public Defender Board is established for the purposes of
providing legal representation to indigent defendants in extradition, criminal,
probation revocation, civil commitments, child support, juvenile, and other
proceedings where the right to counsel has been established by law.
   (B)   The Public Defender Board shall be governed by and operated in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 33-9-15-1 et seq.
   (C)   The reference in division (B) above to state statute shall mean the
statute as amended from time to time, or any similar statutory provision that
may supersede it relating to the same or similar subject matter.
(`88 Code, § 2-151)  (Ord. 93-9, passed 5-17-93)
§ 32.074  HOME ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Home Advisory Board is established to assist the Board of
Commissioners in reviewing operations, management, and maintenance needs
regarding the continuation and preservation of the LaPorte County Home.
   (B)   Such advisory board will consist of nine members all with one-year
terms and specified as follows:
      (1)   A County Commissioner appointed by the County Commissioners.
      (2)   A Councilperson appointed by the Council.
      (3)   A medical professional, doctor or nurse appointed by the County
Commissioners.
      (4)   Four citizen members, two to be appointed by the County
Commissioners and two to be appointed by the Council.
      (5)   The Director of the County Home by virtue of such office.
      (6)   Director of Building Maintenance by virtue of such office.
   (C)   The Board will meet at least quarterly to review operations and
facilities and make recommendations as appropriate to the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 2004-02, passed 3-2-04)
§ 32.075 HUMAN RESOURCES REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   The LaPorte County Human Resources Review Board is hereby established
to monitor and assist the LaPorte County Human Resources Department.
      (1)   Such Board will consist of three  LaPorte County Council Members
selected by the LaPorte County Council to serve on an annual term to begin on
January 1 of each year and continue until a successor is appointed by the
LaPorte County Council.
      (2)   Two members of the LaPorte County Commissioners selected by the
LaPorte County Commissioners to serve on an annual term beginning on January 1
of each year and continuing until a successor is appointed by the LaPorte
County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The LaPorte County Human Resource Board will have the following
responsibilities:
      (1)   The LaPorte County Human Resources Director will serve as a liaison
between the LaPorte County Council and the LaPorte County Board of
Commissioners regarding an assistant in the development of any county personnel
policies, and recommendation regarding the general supervision of LaPorte
County employees;
      (2)   Review all recommendations of the Human Resources Director
concerning job classifications, salaries, personnel policies revisions and make
recommendations to the LaPorte County Council or the LaPorte County
Commissioners as the case may be; and
      (3)   Establish qualifications for the Human Resources Director subject
to the approval of the LaPorte County Council and interview all applications
for such position and make recommendations to the LaPorte County Council and
the LaPorte County Board of Commissioners as the case may be.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-23-07)
COMMITTEES
§ 32.085  OVERALL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is created an Overall Economic Development Program Advisory
Committee.
   (B)   The Overall Economic Development Program Advisory Committee shall have
jurisdictions prescribed by I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq.
   (C)   The Overall Economic Development Committee shall be appointed, serve
terms, and organize as prescribed by I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq.
   (D)   The department, the Committee, and the officers of the Committee shall
have all of the powers and duties as provided for by I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq., as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   The Committee shall assist in updating the county Overall Economic
Development Program and the continued designation of the county as a
redevelopment county.
   (F)   The Committee shall work with the staff of the county Plan Commission
for the purpose of updating, recommending, and making sure the area qualifies
for certain public works funds available through the Economic Development
Administration (EDA) of the U.S. Department of Commerce.
(`88 Code, § 2-127)  (Res. 80-4, passed 6-16-80)
UNITS
§ 32.095  POLICE RESERVE UNIT.
   (A)   Purpose.  There is established the county Police Reserve Unit.  The
purpose and function of the Police Reserve Unit is to complement and support
the county Police Department.  Duly appointed members of the county Police
Reserve Unit shall be known as Special Deputy Sheriffs.
   (B)   Sheriff’s role.  The County Sheriff is authorized and may appoint,
with the approval of the Sheriff’s Merit Board, Special Deputy Sheriffs in such
numbers as the Sheriff deems necessary to assist him or her in promoting the
public safety and preserving the peace in and throughout the county.  The
Sheriff shall determine the length of time each appointment shall remain in
effect, but in no event shall the duration of the appointment be extended past
the appointing Sheriff’s own term of office.
   (C)   Powers.
      (1)   Special Deputy Sheriffs shall have all of the same police powers as
regular Deputy Sheriffs of the county Police Department, except as may be
limited by the rules, regulations, and directives of the county Police
Department.  These limitations may be imposed collectively or individually.
      (2)   Furthermore, the Sheriff is additionally free to adopt whatever
rules, regulations, and directives from time to time he or she deems
appropriate to govern the activities of Special Deputy Sheriffs, and may limit
the authority of each Special Deputy Sheriff as he or she deems appropriate,
including limitations of the geographical area in which their police powers may
be exercised.
   (D)   Prerequisites.  The Sheriff shall fix the prerequisites of training,
education, and experience for Special Deputy Sheriffs, subject to certain
minimum requirements prescribed herein.  Applicants must:
      (1)   Be 21 years of age or over;
      (2)   Never have been convicted of a felony, or a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude;
      (3)   Be of good moral character;
      (4)   Have sufficient training to ensure the proper performance of their
authorized duties; and
      (5)   Set out in writing their personal acknowledgment that:
         (a)   As Special Deputies, they serve at the express pleasure of the
County Sheriff; and
         (b)   An individual’s commission as Special Deputy Sheriff may be
revoked by the Sheriff for any reason or for no given reason at all at any
given time.
   (E)   Benefits.  To the extent that monies may be appropriated by the County
Council, Special Deputy Sheriffs may:
      (1)   Receive wages for authorized duty time;
      (2)   Receive a uniform allowance;
      (3)   Receive compensation for time lost from other employment due to
court appearances; and
      (4)   Receive life, accident, sickness, and liability insurance coverage.
   (F)   No pension benefits.  Under no circumstances are Special Deputy
Sheriffs eligible to participate in the pension program provided for the
regular members of the county Police Department.
   (G)   Probationary period.  An individual may not be appointed as a Special
Deputy Sheriff of the county Police Reserve until that person has completed the
training and any probationary period which shall be deemed appropriate prior to
the appointment by the rules, regulations, and directives of the county Police
Department.
   (H)   Special duty.  This section is to be in full force and govern
appointments as a Special Deputy to the Sheriff’s Mounted Posse and County Lake
Patrol.
   (I)   Appointments.  The County Sheriff is also authorized and may appoint
two persons, 18 years of age and older, to assist him or her in law enforcement
duties as he or she deems appropriate in promoting the public safety and
preserving the peace in and throughout the county.
(`88 Code, § 2-140)  (Ord. 82-10, passed 11-1-82)
SERVICES
§ 32.105  EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners establishes and designates the
county ambulance
service as the county Emergency Medical Services, and shall appoint an
Emergency Medical Service Administrator and/or Coordinator.
   (B)   The County Commissioners shall consider any recommendation of the
Medical Service Council in the appointment of the Administrator or Coordinator,
and in the personnel and operating budgets of the Emergency Medical Services.
   (C)   All funding for and receipts from the Emergency Medical Services shall
be from the General Fund.
   (D)   The county shall furnish all visible attire and replacement as needed.
(`88 Code, § 2-129)  (Res. 1-77, passed 1-10-77)
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Medical Services and fees, see §
37.50
AUTHORITIES
§ 32.115  HOSPITAL BONDING AUTHORITY.
   A Hospital Bonding Authority of the county is created pursuant to the state
Hospital Authority Act, I.C. 5-1-4-1, as it may be amended from time to time.
(`88 Code, § 2-161)  (Res. 4-77, passed 4-4-77)
TEAMS
§ 32.125  CHILD FATALITY REVIEW TEAM.
   (A)   The Child Fatality Review Team is created pursuant to I.C. 12-13-15. 
The Team shall consist of the following members:
      (1)   A coroner or deputy coroner from LaPorte County.
      (2)   A representative from:
         (a)   A medical health corporation as defined under I.C. 16-22-8-2; or
         (b)   The county Health Department.
      (3)   A physician residing or practicing within the county.
      (4)   A representative of one of the county's law enforcement agencies,
whether county or city.
      (5)   The Director of the Office of Family and Children or the Director's
designee.
      (6)   A representative of the County Prosecutor's office.
      (7)   A pathologist with forensic experience who practices in Indiana and
who resides or practices within the county.
      (8)   A representative from a fire department or volunteer fire
department within the county.
      (9)   A representative of a hospital located within the county.
      (10)   A representative of a mental health provider providing services
within the county.
      (11)   A representative of the juvenile/ probate court of the county.
      (12)   Such other representatives as requested and deemed appropriate by
the local Child Fatality Review Team.
   (B)   Such appointments shall be made by the Board of Commissioners unless
such appointment is made by virtue of the office held by the representative
designated herein.  All appointments shall be for a period of one year, with
the exception of the initial appointments.
   (C)   The Child Fatality Review Team shall have all the powers as specified
in I.C. 12-13-15 et seq.
(Ord. 2003-16, passed 11-3-03)
APPENDIX:  CITIZEN DRAINAGE BOARD REDISTRICTING
[Click_here_to_view_image.]
CHAPTER 33:  DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Establishment of Department
Parks and Recreation Board
   
33.15   Composition
   
33.16   Meetings
   
33.17   Duties and powers
   
33.18   Members; duties
   
33.19   Committees; duties
   
33.20   Superintendent; duties
Parks and Recreation Staff
   
33.30   Staff; position descriptions
   
33.31   Work hours
   
33.32   Evaluation procedures
   
33.33   Dress and uniform policy
   
33.34   Compensation; overtime
   
33.35   Job classification system
   
33.36   Americans with Disabilities Act
   
33.37   Volunteers
Operating Rules and Procedures
   
33.50   Purchasing
   
33.51   Fees and permits
   
33.52   Gifts and donations
   
33.53   Recycling and waste reduction
   
33.54   Regular park hours
   
33.55   Closing of park areas and facilities; emergencies
   
33.56   Lost and found
   
33.57   Private vehicles; county employees
   
33.58   Use of Department vehicles and equipment
   
33.59   Accident procedure; Department- owned vehicles
   
33.60   Personal injury or incident procedure
   
33.61   Radio use
   
33.62   Dissemination of information
   
33.63   Personal inquiries; employees
   
33.64   Safety
Cross-reference:
   County purchasing procedures, see §§
34.30 through
34.33
   County vehicle identification, see §
34.02
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see §
32.005
   Non-reverting operating fund for parks and recreation, see §
36.17
   Regulations on conduct in parks, see
Chapter 93
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3, a county Department of Parks and
Recreation is established, also called “Parks Department,” composed of a Board
of Parks and Recreation, in this chapter also called  “the Board” or “Parks
Board,” and other personnel as the Board shall determine necessary.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 33.15  COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Board shall be composed of five regular
members and two ex-officio members.  Members are appointed as follows (I.C. 36-
10-3-4).
      (1)   Two members shall be appointed by the Judge of the Circuit Court.
      (2)   One member shall be appointed by the county executive (Board of
Commissioners).
      (3)   Two members shall be appointed by the county fiscal body (County
Council).
   (B)   Members appointed under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) above shall be
appointed on the basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and
recreation, but no more than one member appointed under divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(3) shall be affiliated with the same political party.
   (C)   In a county having at least one city with a population of at least
35,000, the creating ordinance must provide for one ex-officio Board member, to
be appointed by the executive of that city.  The member appointed by the city
executive must be affiliated with a different political party than the member
appointed by the county executive.  However, if the county has more than one
city of a population greater than 35,000, the executives of those cities shall
agree on the ex-officio member.  The member serves for a term coterminous with
the term of the appointing executive or executives.
   (D)   The creating ordinance may also provide for the county Cooperative
Extension Coordinator, the county Extension Agent, or a member of the county
Extension Committee selected by the committee, to serve as an ex-officio Board
member.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.16  MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   All meetings of the Board are open to the public.  The Board
shall fix the time and place of its regular meetings, but shall meet at least
quarterly.
      (2)   The Parks Board shall meet the second Tuesday of each month at 7:30
p.m. on the first level of the County Complex unless otherwise advertised.
   (B)   (1)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the President or
by any two members by written request to the Secretary, and in accordance with
the “open door” laws of the state. 
      (2)   The Secretary shall send to each member, at least two days before a
special meeting, a written notice fixing the time, place, and purpose of the
special meeting.  Written notice of a special meeting is not required if the
time of the special meeting is fixed at a regular meeting.
   (C)   At its first regular meeting each year the Board shall elect a
President and Vice President.  The Vice President may act as president during
the absence or disability of the President.  The Superintendent shall serve as
Secretary unless deemed otherwise by the Board.
   (D)   Installation of new Board members will take place the first regular
meeting after appointment.
   (E)   A majority of four members constitutes a quorum.  Action of the Board
is not official unless it is authorized by at least three members present and
acting.  Land acquisition shall require authorization by at least a majority of
four members.
   (F)   Robert’s Rules of Order shall be the guide for the conduct of Board
meetings.
   (G)   Meetings shall be tape recorded and the tapes shall be retained for
one year.
   (H)   The Parks Department Superintendent or the Board Secretary shall mail
the minutes within one week following a meeting.  Meeting announcements and an
agenda shall be mailed to each Board member one week prior to each Board
meeting.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.17  DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Board shall:
      (1)   Focus on the development of broad policies that govern the
implementation of the institutional plans and purposes.  This role is separate
and distinct from the role of the Superintendent, to whom is delegated the
responsibility of determining the means of implementation of Board policies;
      (2)   Establish rules governing the use of the parks and recreation
facilities by the public;
      (3)   Appoint the necessary administrative officers of the Department and
fix their duties;
      (4)   Establish standards and qualifications for the appointment of all
personnel and approve their appointments without regard to politics;
      (5)   Approve the annual budget that has been prepared by the
Superintendent in cooperation with the Budget Committee; and
      (6)   Appoint a member of the Board or staff to serve on another kind of
board or commission, whenever a statute allows a parks and recreation board to
do this.
   (B)   The Board may:
      (1)   Enter into contracts and leases for facilities and services;
      (2)   Contract with persons for joint use of facilities for the operation
of parks and recreation programs and related services;
      (3)   Contract with another board, a unit, or a school corporation for
the use of parks and
recreation facilities or services; and a township or school corporation may
contract with the Board for the use of parks and recreation facilities or
services;
      (4)   Acquire and dispose of real and personal property whether within or
outside the state;
      (5)   Exercise the power of eminent domain under statutes available to
municipalities;
      (6)   Sell, lease, or enter into a royalty contract for the natural or
mineral resources of land that it owns;
      (7)   Engage in self-supporting activities as prescribed by I.C. 36-10-3-
22;
      (8)   Contract for special and temporary services and for professional
assistance;
      (9)   Delegate authority to perform ministerial acts except where final
action of the Board is necessary;
      (10)   Prepare, publish, and distribute reports and other materials
relating to activities authorized by this chapter;
      (11)   Sue and be sued collectively by its legal name, as the county
Parks and Recreation Board, with service of process being had upon the
President of the Board, but costs may not be taxed against the Board or its
members in any action;
      (12)   Invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the enforcement
of this chapter, a parks or recreation ordinance, or the Board’s own action
taken under either;
      (13)   Release and transfer, by resolution, a part of the area over which
it has jurisdiction for parks and recreational purposes to park authorities of
another unit for parks and recreational purposes upon petition of the parks and
recreation board of the acquiring unit; and
      (14)   Lease any buildings or grounds belonging to the unit and located
within a park to a person for a period not to exceed 25 years.  The lease may
authorize the lessee to provide upon the premises educational, research,
veterinary, or other proper facilities for the exhibition of wild or domestic
animals in wildlife parks, dining facilities, a bathhouse, skating facilities,
dancing facilities, or amusement rides generally found in amusement parks.  A
lease may be made for more than one year, not to exceed five years, only to the
highest and best bidder, after notice that the lease will be made has been
given by publication in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 et seq.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
Statutory reference:
   Use of facilities and funds, see I.C. 36-10-3-22
§ 33.18  MEMBERS; DUTIES.
   The role of Board members is as follows:
   (A)   Attend all meetings and be in attendance at special park functions;
   (B)   Contribute to defining the organization’s mission and governing the
fulfillment of that mission;
   (C)   Carry out the functions of the Office of Board member as specified in
the organization’s bylaws and policies;
   (D)   As committee chairperson, to conduct, at a minimum, four committee
meetings per year;
   (E)   Each Board member must call the administrative office two days prior
to each scheduled meeting to confirm attendance;
   (F)   Members will be evaluated on attendance and active participation at
Parks Board and standing committee meetings.  This ongoing evaluation will be
administered by the Executive Committee.  At the Executive Committee’s
discretion, an attendance report may be sent to any member’s appointing body.
   (G)   Members may receive an allowance for attending Parks Board meetings,
not to exceed $300 per year, in accordance with I.C. 36-10-3-9.
      (1)   (a)   Beginning with disbursement of the 1994 allowances, Board
members shall be reimbursed a stipend for travel to meetings, at the rate of
one- twelfth per meeting of each member’s budgeted allowance, not to exceed
$300 per calendar year (January through December).  Board members must be in
attendance at meetings to be reimbursed for travel.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (G), the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
            MEETING.  Any regularly scheduled monthly meeting.
         (c)   The amount due shall be determined and paid after the regular
December Board meeting each year.
      (2)   In the event that a Board meeting is canceled due to inclement
weather or lack of a quorum, the stipend for that meeting shall not be paid.
      (3)   The amounts of reimbursement or stipend may be changed from time to
time as appropriated and approved by the County Council without changing the
intent and method outlined in this division (G).
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.19  COMMITTEES; DUTIES.
   (A)   The President shall appoint chairpersons for the following standing
committees at the second meeting of each year:
      (1)   Executive;
      (2)   Budget and Finance;
      (3)   Personnel;
      (4)   Planning;
      (5)   Property; and
      (6)   Rules.
   (B)   The President, Vice President, and Board Secretary shall serve on the
Executive Committee.
   (C)   Each Board member must chair one committee and be a member of a second
committee from division (A)(2) through (A)(6) above.  A committee chairperson
is expected to conduct a minimum of four committee meetings per year, and to
make monthly reports in person or in writing.
   (D)   The duties and responsibilities of the standing committees are
described as follows.
   (E)   The duties and responsibilities of the Executive Committee are:
      (1)   To establish, at the beginning of the year, at least one major
objective for the Parks Board to pursue during the year;
      (2)   To consult with the Parks Department Superintendent at least once
per month regarding any business that will be brought before the Parks Board or
any matter that needs prior planning;
      (3)   To assist the Superintendent in placing items on the agenda for the
Parks Board monthly meetings;
      (4)   To check periodically with the chair- persons of the other standing
committees regarding activities that are being pursued;
      (5)   To be made aware of any problems and give the Superintendent
assistance in handling these problems if needed.  The Personnel Committee will
be contacted if the matter warrants it;
      (6)   To direct the Superintendent to send, in November, reminders to the
appointing bodies of upcoming Parks Board appointments, as well as a copy of
the “Expectations of Park Board Members;” also indicate to the appointing body
its preference for reappointment or non-appointment and/or suggestions for new
members; and
      (7)   To evaluate, in an ongoing objective way, each Board member on his
or her attendance and active participation at the Parks Board and standing
committee meetings.  At the committee’s discretion, an attendance report may be
sent to any member’s appointing body.
   (F)   The duties and responsibilities of the Budget and Finance Committee
are:
      (1)   To assist the Parks Superintendent in preparation of the proposed
budget for the fiscal year;
      (2)   To submit the proposed budget to the Parks Board for approval;
      (3)   To assist the Superintendent in the presentation of the proposed
budget before the County Council;
      (4)   To review and present to the Board, for approval, the monthly
expenditure reports;
      (5)   To confer with Parks Superintendent on budget matters as required;
      (6)   To review and approve Superintendent’s mileage claims at monthly
Parks Board meeting; and
      (7)   To perform other related duties as required.
   (G)   The duties and responsibilities of the Personnel Committee are:
      (1)   To ensure the Superintendent’s position is occupied by a qualified
professional;
      (2)   To coordinate interviews and hiring of the Superintendent and the
Program Supervisor;
      (3)   To work closely with the Superintendent and the Executive Committee
on all matters relating to the dismissal or promotion of all full-time
employees;
      (4)   To review and update job descriptions in cooperation with the
Superintendent; and
      (5)   To perform other related duties as required.
   (H)   The duties and responsibilities of the Planning Committee are:
      (1)   To review annually the master plan with the Superintendent and
inform the Board as to priorities and direction;
      (2)   To initiate updating of master plan;
      (3)   To work with Parks Superintendent on developing plans for new
facilities and park lands;
      (4)   To work with the Parks Superintendent on plans for dedication
ceremonies or celebrations;
      (5)   To submit annual year-end master plan accomplishments; and
      (6)   To perform other related duties as required.
   (I)   The duties and responsibilities of the Property Committee are:
      (1)   To inspect properties with the Parks Superintendent annually to
review projects and ensure areas are being well maintained;
      (2)   To review significant capital improve- ment projects with the
Superintendent and present to the Board;
      (3)   To monitor the Board’s progress in relation to the park site
acquisition and development plan and five-year master plan concerning property
development and acquisition;
      (4)   To review with Superintendent and recommend to the Board, types of
public uses as they relate to specific park properties; and
      (5)   To perform other related duties as required.
   (J)   The duties and responsibilities of the Rules Committee are:
      (1)   To interpret rules and policy when questions arise;
      (2)   To prepare rule changes with the Superintendent as needed for
submission to the Parks Board;
      (3)   To accept requests for rule changes for consideration and
submission to Board;
      (4)   To act as custodian of the Parks Board’s copy of Robert’s Rules of
Order; required to bring this to Parks Board meetings;
      (5)   To review the policy manual with the Superintendent annually; and
      (6)   To perform other related duties as required.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.20  SUPERINTENDENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Superintendent of the county Parks and Recreation Department has
responsibility for administering all Department operations and personnel.
   (B)   The Superintendent’s job description is given in Appendix IV(A) of the
Parks and Recreation Policy Manual.  His or her duties include the following:
      (1)   Assesses short and long-range planning needs of the Department,
including writing and administering grants for parks programming, acquisitions,
development, and enhancement projects;
      (2)   Develops and implements all phases of the five-year master plan,
designing landscape plans for new acquisitions and preparation of five-year
master plan, including surveys and public meetings, evaluating potential sites
for recreational land usage, preparing layout studies for maximization and
aesthetic effects, determining capital improvements, and securing funding
through grants and public and private subscriptions;
      (3)   Determines educational and recreational needs of the community by
maintaining continuing contact via public meetings, public presentations,
surveys, and correspondence with community leaders and Parks and Recreation
Board committees;
      (4)   Oversees Department operations, including budget preparation, land
acquisition, program development and evaluation, personnel supervision,
development and revision of policies and procedures, and coordination of
Departmental activities;
      (5)   Directs and coordinates all compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA), including serving as a liaison with the Access Indiana
Advisory Council;
      (6)   Oversees and assists with park maintenance and construction
projects, and operates park equipment and machinery as necessary;
      (7)   Evaluates the condition of various Department facilities, grounds,
vehicles, and equipment for maintenance and repairs;
      (8)   Prepares materials to be presented to the Parks and Recreation
Board, attends and presents proposals at evening Board meetings, and attends
various other meetings as necessary;
      (9)   Determines Departmental needs and prepares annual budget proposal
for Board consideration; presents annual and all other budget appropriations
and transfers to the County Council; prepares a variety of administrative
financial (budget) and technical reports; and approves purchase orders,
payroll, vacation, comp time, facility reservations, and other administrative
tasks as necessary;
      (10)   Serves as liaison for the Park Foundation Board, and serves as
Secretary to the Parks and Recreation Board;
      (11)   Recruits, hires, and trains new Department personnel, and conducts
evaluation of employee performance; if necessary, documents data and takes
disciplinary action;
      (12)   Serves as a member of the state Parks and Recreation Association
and provides technical assistance to other agencies; attends professional
meetings and conferences;
      (13)   Plans, implements, and conducts bi- weekly staff meetings; and
oversees development of annual report;
      (14)   Presents environmental education workshops and programs to
educators and assists the Program Supervisor with Departmental education
programs; assists with festivals, including planning, evaluation, set-up,
reviewing public relation materials, updates, and working the festivals on
weekends, as needed;
      (15)   Stays abreast and properly informs the Board of current trends in
parks and recreation; and
      (16)   Performs related duties as assigned.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
PARKS AND RECREATION STAFF
§ 33.30  STAFF; POSITION DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   Parks and Recreation Department staff members include the following:
      (1)   Superintendent;
      (2)   Office Manager;
      (3)   Program Supervisor;
      (4)   Maintenance and Construction Supervisor;
      (5)   Park maintenance technician;
      (6)   Nature Center attendant;
      (7)   Part-time laborer; and
      (8)   Gate keeper.
   (B)   Job descriptions for the above staff members are given in Appendix IV
of the Parks and Recreation Policy Manual.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.31  WORK HOURS.
   (A)   Office hours.  8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
   (B)   Nature Center hours.
      (1)   March through October:  8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
      (2)   November through February:  8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
   (C)   Maintenance facility hours.  7 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
   (D)   Restricted activities.  No staff will be allowed to attend school or
work second jobs during regular work hours.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.32  EVALUATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   New employees.
      (1)   New employees will be evaluated 90 days after their start date. 
The employee will either continue his or her probationary period or be
terminated.
      (2)   After an employee’s 90-day review, the employee will be evaluated
again at 180 days.  The employee will either be taken off probation, given an
additional probation period, or be terminated.
   (B)   Employees employed for longer than one year.  Employees will be
evaluated annually in December.
   (C)   Staff evaluations.
      (1)   The Superintendent shall be responsible for ongoing evaluations by
conducting, at a minimum, monthly staff meetings.
      (2)   Annual evaluations will include  employee accomplishments of those
tasks assigned at monthly staff meetings.
      (3)   The Superintendent and employees will each complete a performance
evaluation form prior to the annual evaluation.  At each evaluation, consensus
will be drawn between both forms and that consensus will be placed in the
employee’s personnel file.
      (4)   Evaluations will be completed in duplicate; one copy will go to the
employee and the other into the employee’
      (5)   Employees may discuss their evaluation with the Parks Board
Personnel Committee if so desired.
   (D)   Superintendent evaluations.
      (1)   The Personnel Committee may solicit from all Parks Board members
and/or from full-time staff members, a confidential evaluation of the
Superintendent.
      (2)   Annual evaluations will include accomplishments of master plan
objectives.
      (3)   The Superintendent and Personnel Committee will each complete a
performance evaluation form prior to the annual evaluation.  At the evaluation,
consensus will be drawn between both forms and that consensus will be placed in
the Superintendent’s personnel file.
      (4)   Evaluations will be completed in triplicate; one copy to the
Superintendent, one into the Superintendent’s personnel file, and the other to
stay with the Personnel Committee.  A sample of the performance evaluation form
is given in Appendix VI of the Parks and Recreation Policy Manual.
      (5)   The Superintendent and the Personnel Committee may discuss his or
her evaluation with the entire Parks Board if so desired.
   (E)   Parks Board evaluations. 
      (1)   Members will be evaluated on attendance and active participation at
Parks Board and standing committee meetings.
      (2)   Ongoing evaluations will be administered by the Executive
Committee.  At the Executive Committee’s discretion, an attendance report may
be sent to any member’s appointing body.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.33  DRESS AND UNIFORM POLICY.
   (A)   Professional staff.  The following provisions address professional
staff having regular contact with the public during the delivery of public
programs, special events, or during the hours of operation of the Nature
Center.
      (1)   Staff shall wear either a long sleeve or short sleeve shirt,
specified by the Department.  Shirt shall have a Parks logo patch sewn onto the
left sleeve.
      (2)   A name badge shall be worn above the right shirt pocket.
      (3)   Appropriate pants, coats, and jackets, specified by the Department,
shall be worn.
      (4)   Each item worn shall be clean, pressed, and fit properly.
      (5)   When appropriate, dress shorts and skirts are acceptable.
      (6)   Employees will be issued appropriate rain gear.
   (B)   Office staff.  The following provisions address staff whose primary
work location is in the Parks Department Office.
      (1)   Staff shall wear attire suitable to that of a public office.
      (2)   Office staff involved in assisting with special events, programs,
or as Nature Center receptionist shall wear a Department-provided “polo” type
shirt with silk screen logo.
      (3)   A name badge with the employee’s name shall be worn above the logo.
      (4)   Employees will be issued appropriate rain gear.
   (C)   Maintenance staff.  The following provisions address full-time
employees performing park maintenance duties.
      (1)   Appropriate coats and jackets, specified by the Department, shall
be worn.
      (2)   Staff shall wear a Department-specified work shirt with Parks logo
patch sewn onto the left sleeve.
      (3)   Long pants or knee length shorts shall be worn.  Examples of
acceptable pants include blue jeans or work type pants.
      (4)   Socks and work shoes or boots shall be worn.
      (5)   Employees involved in park main- tenance will be issued appropriate
safety gear.
      (6)   Employees will be issued appropriate rain gear.
   (D)   Seasonal maintenance employees.  The following provisions address
those employees on a seasonal basis working park maintenance.
      (1)   Staff shall wear long pants or knee length shorts.  Acceptable
pants will not have excessive holes and will be blue jean or work type.
      (2)   Socks and work shoes or boots shall be worn.
      (3)   Staff shall wear Department-supplied “polo” type shirts with silk
screened Department logo.
      (4)   Employees involved in park maintenance will be issued appropriate
safety gear.
      (5)   Employees will be issued appropriate rain gear.
   (E)   Part-time seasonal staff.  The following provisions address seasonal
staff which will have direct daily contact with the public, at park properties,
during programs, special events, and at the Luhr Nature Center.
      (1)   Staff shall wear Department-supplied “polo” type shirts with silk
screened Department logo.
      (2)   A name badge shall be worn above the logo.
      (3)   Pants should be free of holes, clean, and pressed.
      (4)   Dress shorts of knee length may be worn.
      (5)   Socks and shoes must be worn.
      (6)   Employees will be issued appropriate rain gear.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.34  COMPENSATION; OVERTIME.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OVERTIME.  Any time worked beyond the established and prescribed usual
week (37.5 or 40 hours) or shift (seven and one-half or eight hours). 
   (B)   Any and all overtime will be worked only at supervisory request or
with supervisory approval.
   (C)   Time off with pay to compensate for overtime may be granted at the
discretion of the supervisor if Departmental economic conditions and work loads
permit.  Should compensatory time be granted, it will be calculated at the rate
of one and one-half hour of overtime worked.
   (D)   The scheduling and approval of compensatory time off shall be at the
supervisor’s discretion.  Employee preference will be given consideration if
that time off won’t adversely affect Departmental work activity.
   (E)   Compensatory time off must be scheduled prior to termination, as no
cash payments will be made in lieu of any time accrued but not taken.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.35  JOB CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The guideline to use and maintain the county job classification system is
given in Appendix IV(H) of the Parks and Recreation Policy Manual.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.36  AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Board intends to comply with the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 USC 12101 et seq.).
   (B)   (1)   Regulations of the U.S. Department of the Interior prohibit
unlawful discrimination in departmental programs on the basis of race, color,
national origin, age, or disability. 
      (2)   Any person who believes he or she has been discriminated against in
any program, activity, or facility, or who desires further information
regarding Title IV and/or P.L. 101-336 Title II (42 USC 12101 et seq.), should
write to:
   LaPorte County Parks & Recreation Department
   Attn:  Superintendent
   County Complex, Level 5, Courthouse Square
   LaPorte IN 46350
   or
   The National Park Service
   Attn:  Director, Equal Opportunity Program
   P.O. Box 37127
   Washington, D.C.  20013-7127
(Policy passed 6-13-95)  (Parks Res. 92-1, passed 2-11-92)
§ 33.37  VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   Volunteers may be used when needed, with the understanding that there
shall be no pay or compensation of any kind for their services.
   (B)   Volunteer workers are not covered under the county’s workers
compensation policy.
   (C)   Volunteer workers shall sign a waiver releasing the county of any
liabilities or responsibility for any accidents or incidents occurring while
performing or as a result of performing volunteer service.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
OPERATING RULES AND PROCEDURES
§ 33.50  PURCHASING.
   (A)   All procedures shall be followed as required by the State Board of
Accounts and County Auditor.
   (B)   The monthly expenditure report shall be reviewed and approved by
motion at each Parks Board meeting. 
      (1)   A single expenditure over $2,500, but less than $10,000, shall
require approval of the Executive Committee members of the Board prior to the
purchase. 
      (2)   A single expenditure over $10,000 shall require approval of the
Board prior to the purchase.
   (C)   Requests for additional appropriations must be approved by the Parks
Board and executed according to procedures established by the County Auditor.
   (D)   A petty cash account of $200 is created as a standing account
originating from the non-reverting fund.  Single purchases will not exceed $20
per purchase.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.51  FEES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Fees authorized.  Parks and recreation facilities and programs shall
be made available to the public free of charge if possible.  However, if it is
necessary in order to provide a particular activity, the Board may charge a
reasonable fee.
   (B)   Special use of areas and facilities. 
      (1)   A special use permit must be issued by the Superintendent for other
than normal use of any area or facility.  In questionable cases, the
Superintendent may refer special use requests to the Board for its
consideration and action.  No person or persons, nor any agency, association,
organization, or other group, shall be permitted use of any area or facility
when that use is intended to be primarily for the purpose of realizing a
profit.  The foregoing provision shall not apply to any concessionaire or
vendor duly authorized by the Board to sell commodities or services upon park
property.
      (2)   Any group offering a park related program to the public may use
Luhr Park Nature Center when advance approval has been given.  The program must
be limited to a maximum of 30 people.  County Parks Department audiovisual
equipment may be used upon request.  A staff employee must be present.  That
employee will set up and take down any chairs and/or tables needed for the
program.  The user will be responsible for all other setup and cleanup.  The
program will end in a timely fashion so that everyone has cleared the park by
10 p.m.
   (C)   Shelter reservations. 
      (1)   Shelter reservations must be made in person, at which time the
deposit and the rental fees must be paid to guarantee the requested date.  No
date is held until the deposit and rental fees are paid.  A waiver must be
signed at the time the fees are paid.
      (2)   All shelter rentals require a $25 deposit.  Rental rates are given
in Appendix VII(C) of the Parks and Recreation Policy Manual.  The deposit will
be returned two working days after the event. Reservation of shelters may be
made up to one year (to the day) in advance.  All persons or organizations will
pay the shelter rental fee.  County Parks Department employees and Board
members must abide by the shelter rental rules.
   (D)   Recreation pack.  A recreation pack which includes a volleyball, net,
bases, bats, balls, and horseshoes may be rented for $15, with a $25 deposit,
to county residents only.  The recreation pack may be used on or off county
parks property. 
      (1)   The recreation pack will be held for the requested date when the
fees are paid. 
      (2)   The pack must be picked up at the Parks Office during normal
business hours. 
      (3)   The deposit will be returned upon receiving the recreation pack
from the renter.
   (E)   Tree cutting permit.  A sample of the permit is given in Appendix VII
(E) of the Parks and Recreation Policy Manual.  The permit is valid for tree
removal on the dates and in the specific area listed on the permit, in
accordance with park hours, and subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Wood is to be used for personal home heating and not for resale.
      (2)   The removal of standing trees, dead or alive, is forbidden.  Anyone
cutting down, destroying, or removing live wood from Department property will
face prosecution.
      (3)   The applicant for this permit agrees to hold harmless the county,
the county Parks and Recreation Department, and its employees, in the event of
injury while cutting and removing trees and wood.
      (4)   Brush should be stacked, the area kept reasonably clean, and
precautions taken so grounds aren’t damaged by tire marks.
      (5)   Falsification of permit, or failure to observe Department rules,
will jeopardize future permits.
      (6)   The applicant agrees to remove wood from a specified area.
      (7)   Park staff will meet with the permittee to designate timber to be
removed.
      (8)   This permit allows the permittee up to two truck loads of wood.  A
truck payload may not exceed a one ton capacity.
      (9)   Permit fee is $10.
   (F)   Vendor fees.
      (1)   All items being sold need to be approved by park staff prior to the
event.
      (2)   Charges for vendor permits are:
         (a)   Major food items permit:  $30.
         (b)   Minor food items permit:  $10.
         (c)   Non-food items permit:  $10.
      (3)   The Parks Board reserves the right to adjust vendor fees.
   (G)   Program fees.  For the environmental education program, the fees are:
      (1)   For county residents:  No fee.
      (2)   For out-of-county residents:  $.50 per person.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.52  GIFTS AND DONATIONS.
   (A)   Park Foundation.  The Foundation is positioned to accept gifts and
bequests, which may be held for transfer to the Parks Department when they can
be used to their greatest advantage.  These gifts may include:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   Appreciated securities;
      (3)   Testamentary gift (estate plan giving);
      (4)   Charitable trust;
      (5)   Insurance; and
      (6)   Land, buildings, and equipment.  These items must be approved by
majorities of both Boards before acceptance.
   (B)   Parks Department.  The Parks are positioned to accept gifts which fit
the mission and short- and long-range plans of the Department.  These gifts may
include:
      (1)   Cash.  To be deposited into the non- reverting fund or channeled
through the Park Foundation.
      (2)   Land.  Once land is accepted, either the Parks Department will take
immediate possession or it will be channeled through the Park Foundation.  The
timetable of development and the type of development shall be completely in the
control of the Parks and Recreation Board.
      (3)   Buildings.  All buildings to be donated must be recommended by the
Property Committee, attesting to their appropriateness to the Parks
Department’s mission.  The Department may require the donator to provide
monetary compensation to relocate donated buildings.  Any donated structure’s
use and/or placement shall be completely in the control of the Parks and
Recreation Board.
      (4)   Equipment.  All equipment to be donated must be recommended by the
Superintendent attesting to its appropriateness to the parks.  All equipment
must be in good condition and have value to the Department at the time of
donation.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.53  RECYCLING AND WASTE REDUCTION.
   (A)   One of the functions of the county Parks and Recreation Department is
to provide an environmental education program and support the wise use of
natural resources.  To support that effort, the Board has adopted a policy
addressing recycling and waste reduction practices at its park sites and
office.
   (B)   (1)   The Department will purchase recycled materials whenever
economically possible.
      (2)   The Department will develop and implement a plan for recycling
aluminum.
      (3)   The Department will provide infor- mation to the public on
recycling and waste reduction at the Luhr Nature Center.
      (4)   The Department will designate a liaison to the Solid Waste Advisory
Committee.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.54  REGULAR PARK HOURS.
   (A)   General park areas will open at dawn and close at dusk unless
otherwise approved by the Board, or posted by the Superintendent.
   (B)   Hours for the Luhr Park Nature Center and Creek Ridge are given in
Appendix VIII(A) of the Parks and Recreation Policy Manual.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.55  CLOSING OF PARK AREAS AND FACILITIES; EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Closing of parks due to unusual conditions.  The authority to close
park areas and facilities due to unusual conditions is vested with the
Superintendent.  In the Superintendent’s absence, on-duty or available staff
will assume this responsibility.
   (B)   Clearing of parks due to emergencies. 
      (1)   Any county Parks Department employee may clear a park area or
facility if he or she feels there is an immediate danger to the health,
welfare, or safety of park visitors, employees, concessionaires, or property. 
      (2)   The employee responsible for clearing park facilities due to
emergency conditions will notify the Superintendent as soon as conditions
permit.
      (3)    Some examples of emergency situations are:
         (a)   Major civil disorders;
         (b)   Uncontrollable fires;
         (c)   Natural or manmade disasters; or
         (d)   Commission of felony crimes.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.56  LOST AND FOUND.
   Employees of the Department are required to keep inventory of all items for
three months.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.57  PRIVATE VEHICLES; COUNTY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Authorization of reimbursement.  Upon approval of the Superintendent,
employees may be granted authorization to be reimbursed for using their private
vehicles when the vehicle is essential to the performance of the work required.
   (B)   Reimbursement rate.  Reimbursement for use of privately owned vehicles
shall be made at the rate established by the County Council.  Reimbursement at
this rate shall be considered as payment for the use of the vehicle, insurance,
and all other transportation costs.
   (C)   Repair and maintenance.  Vehicles that are driven for the performance
of one’s work are driven at the owner’s responsibility.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.58  USE OF DEPARTMENT VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Any employee who drives a Department vehicle shall possess a current
driver’s license as required by state law.
   (B)   Department employees shall obey all city and state traffic laws while
using a Department-owned vehicle.
   (C)   No vehicle or equipment shall be taken out of the county without the
approval of the Superintendent.
   (D)   No vehicle or equipment shall be used for personal use or gain (such
as hauling, moving, mowing, and the like).
   (E)   No one other than an authorized county Parks and Recreation employee
or Parks Board member shall be allowed to operate Department- owned equipment.
   (F)   No vehicle shall be driven that does not meet state safety
registration requirements, or that is unsafe under operating conditions.
   (G)   It is the responsibility of the employee who operates any equipment to
report any operational defects or malfunctions immediately to the employee’s
supervisor.
   (H)   Each week, the operator of any vehicle or equipment is responsible for
conducting a preventive maintenance check.  Deficiencies should be reported
immediately.  Oil, water, and grease will be checked by each operator before
and after use on tractors, trucks, and miscellaneous equipment.  Deficiencies
shall be replenished immediately.
(Policy passed 6-13-95) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 33.59  ACCIDENT PROCEDURE; DEPARTMENT-OWNED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Parks staff and Board members are representatives of the county Parks
and Recreation Department.  Therefore, they are to be as pleasant and helpful
as possible, regardless of who is at fault.  They should not lose their
tempers.
   (B)   All accidents, regardless of location, time, or disposition, whether
public property, other vehicle, or private property is involved, must be
reported to the police immediately and investigated on the scene by the
police.  The employee’s supervisor should be notified immediately.
   (C)   Within 24 hours after a police report has been completed, a copy shall
be placed in the office files.
   (D)   Within 48 hours a vehicle accident report form shall be completed and
turned in to the Superintendent.
   (E)   The Parks Office shall be notified immediately.  The Superintendent’s
Office will notify the county’s insurance company.
   (F)   Department members are not to admit liability, and are not to discuss
the accident with anyone except police, the Department’s insurance company, or
their supervisor.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.60  PERSONAL INJURY OR INCIDENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Parks staff and Board members should remember they represent the
county Parks and Recreation Department.  They should be as pleasant and helpful
as possible.  They should not lose their composure.
   (B)   Within 48 hours of an incident, a personal injury and/or incident
report form shall be completed and turned in to the Superintendent.
   (C)   In the event of an injury or incident, the Parks Office should be
notified immediately as soon as the situation is under control.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.61  RADIO USE.
   (A)   Usefulness.  Properly used, two-way radios can be extremely helpful,
saving time, for security, or for giving information or assistance.
   (B)   Sending messages.  After adjusting the receiver, staff should use the
following procedure to call the base station, portable, or another vehicle:
      (1)   Always listen briefly to make sure that no one is talking on the
same frequency;
      (2)   Depress the microphone and talk; and
      (3)   Always be brief and to the point when transmitting.
   (C)   Good radio manners.  The user should listen before transmitting; if a
sender transmits when another nearby station is transmitting, one of these will
not be heard by the receiving station.
   (D)   Keeping your base station informed.  Radio equipment has been provided
in order that staff members may be more efficient in their work.  To do so, it
is vital that radio users cooperate with the base station operators.  Each
radio user should develop the habit of keeping the base station informed as to
the user’s location and what he or she is doing.
      (1)   The radio user should advise the base when he or she commences work
and is listening to the radio.
      (2)   The radio user should also tell the base where and when he or she
is going to turn off the radio.  If there is a telephone at the location, the
base should be given the number.  If practical, the user should advise when he
or she will be back on the air.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.62  DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   As a public agency, the Department’s business is public business, and
therefore, the public has a right to information concerning the Department’s
operation.
   (B)   Whenever feasible, all news and information should be released to the
news media through the Superintendent or his or her appointed spokesperson.
      (1)   Staff members are encouraged to be cooperative and helpful in
providing information to the general public, public officials, and the news
media. 
      (2)   At no time should personal opinion be voiced in place of, or in
addition to, the established facts.  This does not mean that other staff
members cannot talk with or deal with the news media.
   (C)   In the case of accidents, injuries, or fatalities and felonies (which
are generally investigated by either federal, state, or local law enforcement
agencies), all inquiries should be directed to the appropriate investigating
agency.
   (D)   In order to keep the public better informed, staff members are
encouraged to bring ideas for stories and news releases to the attention of the
Superintendent.
   (E)   (1)   If there are any instances where a staff member is dealing with
the media, and there is not sufficient information available, or the material
is not ready for release, the media should be told there is not sufficient
information available and that the information will be released as soon as
possible.
      (2)   If this should occur, it shall be followed up.  It is absolutely
imperative that if one promises information at a certain time, one delivers
that information.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.63  PERSONAL INQUIRIES; EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Only legitimate inquiries from appropriate identifiable sources will
be processed. 
   (B)   The staff shall answer all inquiries and may provide information only
as indicated below.
      (1)   Verification that the employee is or is not employed and the dates
of hire and/or termination may be provided.
      (2)   Phone numbers and addresses of park personnel shall not be
divulged.
      (3)   (a)   In the event of an emergency, discretion and sound judgment
shall be used in releasing information normally held to be of a confidential
nature. 
         (b)   Infractions of the normal procedures due to emergencies will be
noted and filed in the employee’s personnel file immediately.  The employee
shall be notified of such actions.
      (4)   If any information other than the above is requested, written
permission must be obtained from the employee before the information is
released.  A copy of the written permission is to be placed in the employee’s
personnel file.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
§ 33.64  SAFETY.
   Refer to the Safety Manual.
(Policy passed 6-13-95)
CHAPTER 34:  COUNTY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Smoking prohibited in/around public buildings
   
34.02   County vehicle identification
   
34.03   Sheriff’s employment program for inmates
   
34.04   Security scanning in county courthouses
   
34.05   Take-home county vehicles
   
34.06   Dress code and rules of decorum for attendees at County Council
meetings
   
34.07   Non-discrimination policy
Interlocal Cooperation
   
34.15   Authority to pay dues
   
34.16   Northwestern Indiana Regional Planning Commission
   
34.17   Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District
   
34.18   Economic development employment enhancement policy
Purchasing Procedures
   
34.30   Board of Commissioners; purchasing agency
   
34.31   Reserved
   
34.32   Supplies; preference given to U.S. goods
   
34.33   Capitalization policy
Cable Television; Agreements
   
34.45   Authority to make agreements
   
34.46   Requirements
   
34.47   Records
Grievance Procedure; Handicapped Services
   
34.60   Internal grievance procedure
   
34.61   County Planner; duty
   
34.62   Filing complaints; time limit
   
34.63   Investigation
   
34.64   Written determination
   
34.65   Maintenance of files
   
34.66   Reconsideration
   
34.67   Other remedies
   
34.68   Compliance
   
34.69   Special services for the handicapped
   
34.70   Benefits and services
Emergency Medical Services
   
34.80   Re-established
   
34.81   Maintain authority
   
34.82   Authorization
   
34.83   Definitions
   
34.84   Violation; fines
Nepotism Policy
   
34.90   Purpose
   
34.91   Definitions
   
34.92   General Provisions
   
34.93   Exclusions
   
34.94   Contracting with the county
Responsible Bidding Practices and  Submission Requirements for Submitting Bids
to Perform Construction Work on Public Works Projects
   
34.105   Bid submission requirements
   
34.106   Post-bid submissions from subcontractors
   
34.107   Validity of pre-qualification classification
   
34.108   Incomplete submissions by bidders
   
34.109   Responsive and responsible bidder determination
   
34.110   Certified payroll
   
34.111   Public records
   
34.112   Penalties for false, deceptive, or fraudulent statements/information
   
Appendix:   County Vehicle Decal
Cross-reference:
   Board of Commissioners, duties, see §
30.04
   Sheriff’s Department, see §
32.006
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  SMOKING PROHIBITED IN/AROUND PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Smoking prohibited in public buildings.
      (1)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PUBLIC BUILDING.  Any enclosed structure or part of an enclosed
structure that is occupied or under the control of the county government.
         SMOKING.  The carrying or holding of any lighted cigarette, cigar,
pipe, or other lighted smoking equipment, or the inhalation or exhalation of
any smoke from any lighted smoking equipment.
      (2)   All public buildings shall be posted with conspicuous signs that
read “Smoking is Prohibited by LaPorte County Ordinance.”
      (3)   All buildings operated by the county government are hereby declared
as smoke-free buildings.  Any and all smoking within these buildings is hereby
prohibited.
   (B)   Smoking around public buildings prohibited.
      (1)   Smoking is prohibited on the walkway connecting the LaPorte County
Courthouse to the LaPorte County Complex.
      (2)   Smoking is further prohibited within 25 feet of any public entrance
to any county courthouse or county office building.
      (3)   (a)   Violators of this division (B) will be subject to a fine of
$25.
         (b)   Violations of this division (B) by a county employee could
subject that individual to disciplinary action to include termination based on
repeated violation.
(Ord. 1996-1, passed 1-22-96; Am. Res. 2001-01, passed 1-9-01; Am. Ord. 2008-
02, passed 3-4-08; Am. Ord. 2011-03, passed 3-15-11) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 34.02  COUNTY VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION.
   All county vehicles shall display and have affixed to the driver and front
passenger doors, a number and decal of similar design as the one attached
hereto in the appendix to this chapter and made a part hereof, except those
vehicles identified by their use or department as county vehicles.  Vehicles
identified by their use or department include, but are not limited to,
Sheriff’s Department, Emergency Medical Service, and Highway Department
vehicles.
(Ord. 97-21, passed 9-9-97)
§ 34.03  SHERIFF’S EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM FOR INMATES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff is directed to establish and maintain a program of
public employment of county inmates pursuant to I.C. 11-12-5-1 et seq., as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The Sheriff shall have the discretion and authority to administer this
program of public employment consistent with I.C. 11-12-5-1 et seq., as it may
be amended from time to time, and as the Sheriff, at his or her discretion,
deems appropriate.
(`88 Code, § 2-142)  (Res. passed 4-27-81)
§ 34.04  SECURITY SCANNING IN COUNTY COURTHOUSES.
   (A)   All individuals entering into the county courthouses to include
employees and the general public, will be required to pass through a metal
detection unit and searched, if necessary, prior to entering into any county
courthouses.
   (B)   The Sheriff and the county courthouse security detail will provide
other additional policies regarding the scanning and the ingress and egress of
the county employees and other individuals who are known to frequent the
courthouse due to business concerns on a regular basis.
   (C)   Any individual who fails to abide by the requirements of the county
courthouse security detail shall be denied entry into the county courthouses.
(Ord. 2003-1, passed 1-7-03)
§ 34.05  TAKE-HOME COUNTY VEHICLES.
   (A)   This section pertains to all county-owned vehicles that are taken home
and to establish which are considered a taxable fringe benefit and which are
qualified non-personal use vehicles.
   (B)   Qualified non-personal vehicles are not considered a taxable fringe
benefit and are those vehicles for which employees are required to go home and
are on an "on-call" status and must respond to an emergency from home.
   (C)   Other than police vehicles, such county vehicles on an "on-call"
status are not to be used for personal purposes.
   (D)   All other county employees who are authorized a vehicle to take home
shall have the same included in their income as a non-cash fringe benefit in
the amount of $750 based on the commuting value rule.
   (E)   All employees subject to the commuting value rule will keep daily
records of the use of such assigned vehicle to include:
      (1)   Date;
      (2)   Beginning and ending mileage;
      (3)   Destination;
      (4)   Business purpose; and
      (5)   Personal use mileage.
   (F)   Records of use will be maintained by each department or office for two
years.
   (G)   Vehicles of elected officials, if taken home, will be treated as a
non-cash fringe benefit and such benefit will be treated either under the auto
lease rule or the cents-per-mile rule, whichever is the lesser.
   (H)   The automobile lease rule will be based on:
      (1)   The fair market value of the vehicle;
      (2)   Annual lease value (based on a four-year lease term); and
      (3)   5.5 cents per mile if fuel is provided.
   (I)   As to the cents-per-mile rule, such non-cash fringe benefit shall be
determined at 44.5 cents per mile only if:
      (1)   The regular business use must be 50% of the total annual mileage;
      (2)   The fair market value is less than threshold; and
      (3)   The vehicle is driven at least 10,000 miles per year.
(Res. 2007-05, passed 5-15-07)
§ 34.06  DRESS CODE AND RULES OF DECORUM FOR ATTENDEES AT COUNTY COUNCIL
MEETINGS.
   (A)   To maintain the dignity and decorum of the LaPorte County Council
meetings and so as not to disrupt said meetings, no person shall be allowed to
attend and/or address the County Council unless they follow the dress code and
rules of decorum listed in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The County Council hereby establishes a dress code and rules of
decorum which shall read as follows:
      (1)   All persons who enter the County Council Chambers to attend Council
meetings shall dress appropriately. Persons wearing inappropriate attire shall
be removed from public council chambers as more fully set forth below. Examples
of inappropriate attire include but are not limited to: miniskirts, pants that
are tattered or have holes in them, hats, sunglasses, do-rags, halter tops,
bare midriffs, lewd clothing, bathing suits, clothing with offensive, vulgar,
racist, gang related, or obscene language and/or pictures, or tank tops. Shirt
and shoes are required.
      (2)   Cellular phones, pagers, other communication devices, tablets,
laptops, and wearable technology including but not limited to: smart watches,
and Google Glass, must be on silent mode so as not to disrupt proceedings.
      (3)   No food and/or drinks are permitted in council chambers.
      (4)   Violators of the dress code and decorum will not be permitted in
the council chambers. If attendance is for a public meeting, violators of the
dress code will be able to stand in the ante-chamber where they can observe and
hear the proceedings.
      (5)   Persons who disrupt a public meeting may be removed consistent with
applicable laws and statutes.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed  - -15)
§ 34.07  NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   The county hereby affirms its policy that no vendor, contractor, grant
recipient, or anyone receiving public funds or benefits of any kind shall
discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, disability, sexual
orientation, gender identity, national origin, ancestry, age, or United States
military service status, and any breach of this policy shall continue to be
considered a material breach of the relationship with the county.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 6-3-15)
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION
§ 34.15  AUTHORITY TO PAY DUES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to budget, and the County
Council is authorized to appropriate funds from the General Fund or from other
funds to provide membership for the county and for the elected and appointed
officials and members of the county’s boards, councils, departments, or
agencies in local, regional, state, and national associations of a civic,
educational, or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the betterment
and improvement of county government operations.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners is further authorized to budget and the
County Council is further authorized to appropriate funds to pay the expenses
of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and functions of
organizations to which the county belongs.
(`88 Code, § 2-152)  (Ord. 82-8, passed 7-26-82)
§ 34.16  NORTHWESTERN INDIANA REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners reaffirms that it has joined the
Northwestern Indiana Regional Planning Commission (NIRPC) as provided for in
enabling state legislation that it now establishes the Northwestern Indiana
Regional Planning Commission as the Northwestern Indiana Economic Development
District Board.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners will support the economic development
program of the district.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners has requested that the Northwestern
Indiana Economic Development District’s overall economic development program be
recognized by the Economic Development Administration as the county economic
development area’s overall economic development program upon designation of the
district by the Economic Development Administration.
   (D)   Until the time that the Northwestern Indiana Economic Development
District is designated by the Economic Development Administration, the County
Board of Commissioners approves and authorizes submission of the Lake-Porter-
LaPorte Counties Joint Overall Economic Development Program as prepared by the
(NIRPC) in compliance with requirements of the Economic Development
Administration for upgrading the designated economic development area’s overall
economic development program.
   (E)   The County Board of Commissioners requested transfer from the Water
Quality Management Plan of MACOG to the NIRPC Plan. 
(`88 Code, § 2-153)  (Res. 5-49, passed 8-6-79; Am. Res. 80-1, passed 1-21-80)
§ 34.17  NORTHERN INDIANA COMMUTER TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.
   Effective November 3, 1986, the county re-established its intent to continue
and remain a member of the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District.
(`88 Code, § 2-154) (Ord. 86-11, passed 11-3-86)
§ 34.18 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYMENT ENHANCEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   At the discretion of the LaPorte County Council with input from local
jurisdictions, the Council may elect to assist with economic development
projects by utilizing the LaPorte County Economic Development Fund.  The
purpose of the fund is to promote significant opportunities for gainful
employment of its citizens and retain or expand a significant advanced
manufacturing and/or twenty-first century logistics business enterprise within
the county.
   (B)   In order to qualify for the use of such funds, the following
conditions must be met:
      (1)   Eligibility criteria.
         (a)   The business must exist in LaPorte County or intend to relocate
in LaPorte County;
         (b)   The business must be in good standing with all overlapping
taxing districts and have no outstanding tax delinquencies.
      (2)   Employment.
         (a)   Job retention of a minimum of 45 existing, and/or
         (b)   Job creation of a minimum of 100 new jobs.
      (3)   Other incentives requirement.  The local jurisdictions involved
with the company, either the county or local municipality, must have pledged
the incentives offered under one or more of the following:
         (a)   Enterprise zone program:  I.C. 6-3-3-10, 6-3.1-7 and 6-3.1-10.
         (b)   Property tax abatement: I.C. 6-1.1-12.1.
         (c)   Tax increment financing: I.C. 36-7-14.
         (d)   Other local incentives, grants and/or loans.
   (C)   Additionally, in combination with commitments from the local
jurisdictions, the State of Indiana by and through the Department of Commerce
must have an active incentive offer extended to the expanding LaPorte County
business.  The offer must include an Economic Development for a Growing Economy
Tax Credit under I.C. 6-3.1-13.
   (D)   The company must agree to remain in operation for the duration and at
the number of employees and wages level as determined in the Indiana Department
of Commerce's Economic Development for Growing Economic Tax Credit calculations
and must comply LaPorte County common construction scale of wages as determined
by the LaPorte County Council and appropriate commissions.
   (E)   LaPorte County may require additional criteria to encourage or to
increase economic development or business activity within LaPorte County.
(Res. 2004-06, passed 6-28-04)
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 34.30  BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; PURCHASING AGENCY.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby determines that it is the purchasing
agency for the county.
(Ord. 98-10, passed 6-30-98)
§ 34.31  RESERVED.
§ 34.32  SUPPLIES; PREFERENCE GIVEN TO U.S. GOODS.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all county
purchases and shall be purchased, unless the county determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 98-11, passed 6-30-98)
§ 34.33  CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   All county departments shall henceforth maintain an inventory list in
the Auditor’s Office of all equipment with a purchase value of $500 or more,
and/or an anticipated life of three or more years, if:
      (1)   The equipment is an addition to existing equipment; and/or
      (2)   The equipment is uniquely identifiable in an asset audit (such as
by serial number or as one of a kind within a department) or is a new
replacement for an existing piece of equipment which has been retired from use
by trade-in, disposal, or sale.
   (B)   All capitalized equipment shall bear an inventory identification tag
issued by the Auditor’s Office and affixed to the equipment so long as it is
maintained in the department’s inventory.  Equipment retired shall be removed
from the inventory.
   (C)   Within three working days of receipt of any equipment which is new to
the inventory, the department head shall add the equipment to the department’s
inventory list in the Auditor’s office and remove retired equipment from the
inventory.
   (D)   Building and structure improvements, regardless of value, shall be
capitalized on the building inventory if the expenditure meets any of the
following criteria:
      (1)   It is an addition to the existing building or structure;
      (2)   It adds permanent value to the total book value of the department;
and/or
      (3)   It prolongs the useful life of the existing structure, is permanent
in nature, and does not require periodic reoccurrence of the expenditure.
(Res. 97-12, passed 10-14-97)
CABLE TELEVISION; AGREEMENTS
§ 34.45  AUTHORITY TO MAKE AGREEMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners may enter into written agreements with cable
television companies to serve the county or portions of the county.
(`88 Code, § 3-73)
§ 34.46  REQUIREMENTS.
   These agreements must be approved by ordinance and shall be binding upon the
parties as to the percentage of annual basic gross subscriber revenues to be
received by the county, pole rentals, furnishing of toll-free or extension line
numbers to customers, safety standards, inspections, service requirements,
indemnification, bond requirements, conditions of street occupancy, complaint
procedures, rate procedures, assignment procedures, construction standards,
access standards, and other related areas.
(`88 Code, § 3-73)
§ 34.47  RECORDS.
   The agreements, upon passage of an appropriate ordinance, shall be kept on
file in the office of the County Auditor.
(`88 Code, § 3-73)
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE; HANDICAPPED SERVICES
§ 34.60  INTERNAL GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners adopts the following internal
grievance procedure providing for prompt and equitable resolution of complaints
alleging any action prohibited by the Office of Revenue Sharing (ORS)
regulations (31 CFR 51.55(d)(2)) implementing Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973, as amended (29 USC 794). 
   (B)   Section 504 states, in part, that “no otherwise qualified handicapped
individual ... shall, solely by reason of his/her handicap, be excluded from
the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial
assistance...”
(`88 Code, § 2-171)  (Res. 84-4, passed 9-17-84)
§ 34.61  COUNTY PLANNER; DUTY.
   Complaints should be addressed to: LaPorte County Planner, County Planning
Department, Circuit Court House, 813 Lincolnway, LaPorte, Indiana 46350; Area
Code 219-326-6808, ext. 253.  The Planner has been designated to coordinate
Section 504 ( 21 USC 794) compliance efforts.
(`88 Code, § 2-172)  (Res. 84-4, passed 9-17-84)
§ 34.62  FILING COMPLAINTS; TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   Filing complaints.  A complaint should be filed in writing or
verbally, containing the name and address of the person filing it, and briefly
describing the alleged violation of the regulations. 
(`88 Code, § 2-173)
   (B)   Thirty-day requirement.
      (1)   A complaint should be filed within 30 days after the alleged
violation has occurred.
      (2)   Processing of allegations of discrimination occurring before this
grievance procedure was in place will be considered on a case- by-case basis.
(`88 Code, § 2-174) (Res. 84-4, passed 9-17-84)
§ 34.63  INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   An investigation, as may be appropriate, shall follow a filing of a
complaint.  The investigation will be conducted by the County Planner and the
County Attorney.  These rules contemplate informal but thorough investigations,
affording all interested persons and their representatives, if any, an
opportunity to submit evidence relevant to a complaint. 
   (B)   Under 31 CFR 51.55(d)(2), the County Board of Commissioners does not
have to process complaints from applicants for employment or from applicants
for admission to post-secondary educational institutions.
(`88 Code, § 2-175)  (Res. 84-4, passed 9-17-84)
§ 34.64  WRITTEN DETERMINATION.
   A written determination as to the validity of the complaint and description
of the resolution, if any, shall be issued by the County Planner and the County
Attorney and a copy forwarded to the complainant no later than 60 days after
the date of filing of the complaint.
(`88 Code, § 2-176)  (Res. 84-4, passed 9-17-84)
§ 34.65  MAINTENANCE OF FILES.
   The County Planner shall maintain the files and records of the County Board
of Commissioners relating to the complaints filed.
(`88 Code, § 2-177)  (Res. 84-4, passed 9-17-84)
§ 34.66  RECONSIDERATION.
   The complainant can request a reconsideration of the case in instances where
he or she is dissatisfied with the resolution.  The request for reconsideration
should be made within 60 days after receipt of the written determination from
the County Planner and County Attorney to the County Board of Commissioners.
(`88 Code, § 2-178)  (Res. 84-4, passed 9-17-84)
§ 34.67  OTHER REMEDIES.
   The right of a person to a prompt and equitable resolution of the complaint
filed hereunder shall not be impaired by the person’s pursuit of other remedies
such as the filing of a Section 504 ( 21 USC 794) complaint with the Office of
Revenue Sharing, U.S. Department of the Treasury.  Utilization of this
grievance procedure is not a prerequisite to the pursuit of other remedies.
(`88 Code, § 2-179)  (Res. 84-4, passed 9-17-84)
§ 34.68  COMPLIANCE.
   These rules shall be construed to protect the substantive rights of
interested persons, to meet appropriate due process standards, and to assure
that the County Board of Commissioners complies with Section 504 ( 21 USC 794)
and the Office of Revenue Sharing regulations.
(`88 Code, § 2-180)  (Res. 84-4, passed 9-17-84)
§ 34.69  SPECIAL SERVICES FOR THE HANDICAPPED.
   The County Board of Commissioners and all county department heads agree to
make reasonable effort to provide a special service(s) as needed to any
handicapped person(s) within two working days notice but in no event more than
five working days after notice to the specific department the individual is
requesting the service from in order to participate in that department’s
program.
(`88 Code, § 2-181)  (Res. No. 84-6, passed 10-29-84)
§ 34.70  BENEFITS AND SERVICES.
   (A)   The County Commissioners and county department heads agree to provide
programs and activities which are readily accessible to and usable by the
handicapped.
   (B)   The delivery of benefits and services will be free of discriminatory
effects on the handicapped.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners and the County Council ensure that a
procedure has been established ensuring that secondary users of General Revenue
Sharing Funds comply with the regulations of Section 504 ( 21 USC 794).
(`88 Code, § 2-182)  (Res. 84-6, passed 10-29-84)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
§ 34.80  RE-ESTABLISHED.
   The LaPorte County Emergency Medical Services is hereby re-established and
designated to provide emergency medical ambulance services to LaPorte County.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-21-06)
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Medical Services and fees, see §
37.50
§ 34.81  MAINTAIN AUTHORITY.
   To continue to maintain such authority, Emergency Medical Services must:
   (A)   Be state-certified to perform such emergency medical ambulance
service.
   (B)   Have state-certified ambulances.
   (C)   Respond with a paramedic and emergency medical technician capable of
providing advanced life support.
   (D)   Operate under the authority of a supervising hospital with approved
life support protocol.
      (1)   The supervising hospital must be operating within LaPorte County
and must be licensed pursuant to I.C. 16-21-2 et seq.; and
      (2)   Be certified by the Indiana Emergency Medical Service Commissions
to supervise a paramedic and emergency medical technician.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-21-06)
§ 34.82  AUTHORIZATION.
   No other person, organization, group or corporation may furnish, operate,
conduct, maintain, advertise or otherwise be engaged in providing emergency
medical service in LaPorte County, either paid or voluntarily, until such
person, organization, group or corporation is authorized to do so by LaPorte
County Emergency Medical Services authority except as otherwise provided by
I.C. 31-5-2 as follows:
   (A)   If such person is authorized to provide emergency medical ambulance
services in any part of another county; and
   (B)   Such person has been requested to provide emergency ambulance
services:
      (1)   To the county in which the person is authorized to provide
emergency ambulance services, and those services will originate in another
county; or
      (2)   From the county in which the person is authorized to provide
emergency ambulance services and those services will terminate in another
county.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-21-06)
§ 34.83  DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions provided in Title 16 of the Indiana Code as the same
provides to emergency medical services are hereby applicable and are
incorporated as part herein in this subchapter as the same and subsequent
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-21-06)
§ 34.84  VIOLATION; FINES.
   In the event any other emergency medical provider operates in LaPorte County
in violation of this subchapter and without the permission of the Board of
Commissioners and the LaPorte County EMS, such provider will be subject to a
fine not to exceed $2,500 per day, per violation.  In the event legal action is
necessary to enforce the provisions of this subchapter to include payment of
fines, the county may be entitled to all reasonable attorney fees, costs of
litigation and the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-21-06)
NEPOTISM POLICY
§ 34.90  PURPOSE.
   In accordance with House Enrolled Act 1005 (“HEA” 1005) individuals who are
relatives may not be employed by a unit in a position that results in one
relative being in the direct line of supervision of the other relative.
(Res. 2012-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 34.91  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION.  An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or performance evaluation.  The term does not include the
responsibilities of the executive, legislative body, or fiscal body of a unit,
as provided by law, to make decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets, or
personnel policies of the unit.
   EMPLOYED.  An individual who is employed by a unit on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the unit.
   MEMBER OF THE SHERIFFS OFFICE.  The sheriff or an officer appointed to the
office.
   RELATIVE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Spouse;
      (2)   Parent or stepparent;
      (3)   Child or stepchild;
      (4)   Brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister;
      (5)   Niece or nephew;
      (6)   Aunt or uncle;
      (7)   Daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child of the
individual. The terms “brother” and “sister” include a brother or sister by the
half blood.
(Res. 2012-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 34.92  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   With regard to an individual who:  (1) is employed by a unit on the
date the individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected office of
the unit; and (2) is not exempt from the application of this policy, the
individual may remain employed by a unit and maintain the individual’s position
or rank even if the individual’s employment would violate the prohibition
against one relative being in the direct line of supervision of the other
relative.
   (B)   The individual described above may not:  (1) be promoted to a
position; or (2) be promoted to a position that is not within the merit ranks,
in the case of an individual who is a member of a merit sheriff’s office, if
the new position would violate the prohibition against one relative being in
the direct line of supervision of the other relative.
   (C)   A Sheriff’s spouse may be employed as prison matron for the county
under I.C. 36-8-10-5 and the spouse may be in the Sheriff’s direct line of
supervision.
   (D)   An individual:
      (1)   Who served as coroner;
      (2)   Who is currently ineligible to serve as coroner under Article 6,
Section 2(b) of the Constitution of the State of Indiana;
      (3)   Who, as coroner, received certification under I.C. 36-2-14-22.3;
and
      (4)   Whose successor in the office of coroner is a relative of the
individual; may be hired in the position of deputy coroner and be in the
coroner’s direct line of supervision.
(Res. 2012-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 34.93  EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   An individual who is employed by a unit on July 1, 2012 is not subject
to these policies unless the individual has a break in employment with the
unit. Breaks in employment do not include the following:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation.
      (2)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated followed by
immediate reemployment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
   (B)   This policy does not apply to performance of duties as a:
      (1)   Precinct election officer as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1; or
      (2)   Volunteer firefighter.
   (C)   This policy does not repeal or affect an employment contract with a
unit that:
      (1)   An individual is a party to; and
      (2)   Is in effect on the date the individual’s relative begins serving a
term of an elected office of the unit.
(Res. 2012-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 34.94  CONTRACTING WITH THE COUNTY.
   (A)   Definitions.  For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   ELECTED OFFICIAL.  Any member of: (a) the Board of Commissioners of
the County, or (b) the County Council.
      (2)   RELATIVE.  Any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A parent or stepparent;
         (c)   A child or stepchild, including adopted children;
         (d)   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister, including
brothers or sisters by the half-blood;
         (e)   A niece or nephew;
         (f)   An aunt or uncle; and/or
         (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
   (B)   Anti-nepotism policy regarding county contracts. In order to comply
with Indiana law and in order to avoid potential conflicts of interests,
misunderstandings and appearances of favoritism, impropriety or bias, the
county has adopted the following policy to establish certain minimum
requirements regarding contracts between (1) any department, office, or elected
official of LaPorte County, Indiana (the “County”), and (2) “relatives” (or
businesses wholly or partially owned by relatives) of “elected officials” of
the county. Except as otherwise provided within this policy, the county may
enter into or renew a contract for the procurement of goods and services or a
contract for public works with either: (1) an individual who is a relative of
an elected official, or (2) a business entity that is wholly or partially owned
by a relative of an elected official only if the requirements of this policy
are satisfied and such contract would not result in a violation of I.C. 35-44-
1-3 by the elected official.
   (C)   Procedure to comply.  Notwithstanding any provisions of this policy
and I.C. 36-1-21, the county may enter into or renew a contract with an
individual or business entity described in the paragraph above only if the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The elected official shall file with the Board of Commissioners of
LaPorte County, Indiana (the “Board of Commissioners”) a full disclosure
statement, which must: (a) be in writing; (b) describe the contract or purchase
to be made by the county; (c) describe the relationship that the elected
official has to the individual or business entity with whom the county seeks to
contract or from whom the county seeks to purchase; (d) be affirmed under
penalty of perjury; (e) be submitted to the legislative body of the county and
be accepted by the legislative body of the county in a public meeting of the
legislative body prior to final action on the contract or purchase; and (f) be
filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the contract or purchase,
with (I) the State Board of Accounts, and (ii) the Clerk of the Circuit Court
of the county.
      (2)   The appropriate agency of the county shall file a certified
statement with the Board of Commissioners: (a) that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or (b) setting
forth the reasons why the vendor or contractor was selected.
      (3)   The county satisfies any other contracting requirements under I.C.
5-22 (concerning the purchase of goods or services) or I.C. 36-1-12 (concerning
public works).
      (4)   The elected official also complies with the disclosure provisions
required by I.C. 35-44-1-3, if applicable.
   (D)   Annual certification.  Annual certification by elected officers each
elected officer of the county shall annually certify in writing, subject to the
penalties for perjury, that the officer has not violated this policy or I.C.
36-1-21. Each officer shall submit the certification to the Board of
Commissioners not later than December 31st of each year.
   (E)   Interpretation of policy.  This policy is intended to implement the
minimum requirements necessary to comply with I.C. 36-1-21, as the same may be
amended from time to time. If and to the extent this policy is not in
compliance with I.C. 36-1-21, this policy shall be deemed to include such terms
not otherwise included within this policy, and to exclude such terms not
otherwise excluded, as are necessary to cause this policy to implement the
minimum requirements set forth in I.C. 36-1-21.  To the extent this policy is
inconsistent with any provision of Indiana law, including, without limitation,
I.C. 36-1-21, such other provisions of Indiana law shall control. If any
portion of this policy is held or deemed to be, or is, invalid, illegal,
inoperable, or unenforceable, the validity, legality, operability and
enforceability of the remaining portions of this policy shall not be affected,
and this policy shall be construed as if it did not contain such invalid,
illegal, inoperable or unenforceable portion.
   (F)   Right to review application of policy and make amendments.  The county
reserves the right to review the specific facts of any case where this Policy
is implicated and make exceptions on a case-by-case basis consistent with the
provisions of Indiana law, including, without limitation, the provisions of
I.C. 36-1-21. Furthermore, the county reserves the right to modify or amend the
provisions of this policy from time to time consistent with the provisions of
the provisions of Indiana law, including, without limitation, the provisions of
I.C. 36-1-21.
(Res. 2012-03, passed 6-26-12)
RESPONSIBLE BIDDING PRACTICES AND SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMITTING BIDS
TO PERFORM CONSTRUCTION WORK ON PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS
§ 34.105  BID SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Contractors proposing to submit bids on any LaPorte County ("county")
project estimated to be at
least $150,000 or more must, prior to the opening of bids, submit a statement
made under oath and subject to perjury laws, on a form designated by the county
and must include:
      (1)   A copy of a print-out of the Indiana Secretary of State's on-line
records for the bidder dated within 60 days of the submission of said document
showing that the bidder is in existence, current with the Indiana Secretary of
State's Business Entity Reports, and eligible for a certificate of good
standing. If the bidder is an individual, sole proprietor or partnership, this
division shall not apply;
      (2)   A list identifying all former business names;
      (3)   Any determinations by a court or governmental agency for violations
of federal, state, or local laws including, but not limited to violations of
contracting or antitrust laws, tax or licensing laws, environmental laws, the
Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), or federal Davis-Bacon and related
Acts;
      (4)   A statement on staffing capabilities, including labor sources;
      (5)   Evidence of participation in apprenticeship and training programs,
applicable to the work to be performed on the project, which are approved by
and registered with the United States Department of Labor's Office of
Apprenticeship, or its successor organization. The required evidence includes a
copy of all applicable apprenticeship certificates or standards for these
training programs;
      (6)   A copy of a written plan for employee drug testing that: (i) covers
all employees of the bidder who will perform work on the public work project;
and (ii) meets, or exceeds, the requirements set forth in I.C. 4-13-18-5 or
I.C. 4-13-18-6;
      (7)   The name and description of the management experience of each of
the bidder's project managers and superintendents that bidder intends to assign
to work on the project;
      (8)   Proof of any professional or trade license required by law for any
trade or specialty area in which bidder is seeking a contract award; and
disclosure of any suspension or revocation within the previous five years of
any professional or trade license held by the company, or of any director,
office or manager employed by the bidder;
      (9)   Evidence that the contractor is utilizing a surety company which is
on the United States Department of Treasury's Listing of Approved Sureties;
      (10)   A written statement of any federal, state or local tax liens or
tax delinquencies owed to any federal, state or local taxing body in the last
five years;
      (11)   A statement that individuals who will perform work on the public
work project on behalf of the bidder will be properly classified as either (i)
an employee or (ii) an independent contractor, under all applicable state and
federal laws and local ordinances;
      (12)   A list of projects of similar size and scope of work that the
bidder has performed in the State of Indiana within three years prior to the
date on which the bid is due;
      (13)   For contracts estimated to cost at least $300,000, certification
that all contractors and subcontractors are qualified under I.C. 4-13.4 or I.C.
8-23-10.
   (B)   The county reserves the right to demand supplemental information from
the bidder, (additional) verification of any of the information provided by the
bidder, and may also conduct random inquiries of the bidder's current and prior
customers.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-20-19)
§ 34.106  POST-BID SUBMISSIONS FROM SUBCONTRACTORS
   (A)   All bidders shall provide a written list that discloses the name,
address, and type of work for each first-tier subcontractor from whom the
bidder has accepted a bid and/or intends to hire on any part of the public work
project, including individuals performing work as independent contractors,
within five business days after the date the bids are due.
   (B)   In addition, each such first-tier subcontractor shall be required to
adhere to the requirements of §
34.105 as though it were bidding directly to the county, except that first-tier
subcontractors shall submit the required information (including the name,
address, and type of work for each of their first-tier subcontractors) to the
successful bidder no later than five business days after the subcontractor's
first day of work on the public work project and the bidder shall then forward
said information to the county. Payment shall be withheld from any first-tier
subcontractor who fails to timely submit said information until such
information is submitted and approved by the county.
   (C)   Upon request, the county may require any second and lower-tier
subcontractors to provide the required information (including name, address,
type of work on the project and the name of the higher-tier subcontractor).
Payments shall be withheld from any second or lower-tiered contractor who fails
to timely submit this information until this information is submitted and
approved by the county. Additionally, the county may require the successful
bidder and relevant subcontractor to remove the second or lower-tier
subcontractor from the project and replace it with a responsive and responsible
subcontractor.
   (D)   Failure of a subcontractor to submit the required information shall
not disqualify the successful bidder from performing work on the project and
shall not constitute a contractual default and/or breach by the successful
bidder. However, the county may withhold all payments otherwise due for work
performed by a subcontractor, until the subcontractor submits the required
information and the county approves such information. The county may also
require that successful bidder to remove the subcontractor from the project and
replace it with a responsive and responsible subcontractor.
   (E)   The disclosure of a subcontractor ("disclosed subcontractor") by a
bidder or a subcontractor shall not create any rights in the disclosed
subcontractor. Thus, a bidder and/or subcontractor may substitute another
subcontractor ("substitute subcontractor") for a disclosed subcontractor by
giving the county written notice of the name, address, and type of work of the
substitute subcontractor. The substitute subcontractor is subject to all of the
obligations of a subcontractor under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-20-19)
§ 34.107  VALIDITY OF PRE- QUALIFICATION CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   Upon designation by the county that a contractor's or subcontractor's
submission in anticipation of a bid is complete and timely, and upon any
further consideration deemed necessary by the county, the contractor or
subcontractor may be pre-qualified for future county public works projects. A
contractor's classification as "qualified" shall exempt the contractor or sub-
contractor from the comprehensive submission requirements contained herein for
a period of 12 months. Thereafter, contractors or subcontractors who are pre-
qualified must submit a complete application for continuation of "pre-
qualified" standing, on a form provided by the county, (also referred to as the
"short form") by December 31st for the upcoming calendar year. Failure by any
pre-qualified contractor or subcontractor to timely submit its complete
application for continuation of "pre-qualified" standing shall result in
automatic removal of the designation, effective January 1 of the upcoming year.
However, the "removed" contractor or subcontractor shall still be permitted to
bid on county public works projects.
   (B)   Any material changes to the contractor's status, at any time, must be
reported in writing within ten days of its occurrence to the county. The pre-
qualification designation is solely within the discretion of the county and the
county specifically reserves the right to change or revoke the designation for
a stated written reason(s).
   (C)   Denial of pre-qualification shall be in writing and shall be forwarded
to the contractor within seven working days of such decision. Any contractor
denied or losing pre-qualification status may request reconsideration of the
decision by submitting such request in writing to the county within five
business days of receipt of notice of denial.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-20-19)
§ 34.108  INCOMPLETE SUBMISSIONS BY BIDDERS.
   It is the sole responsibility of the potential bidder to comply with all
submission requirements applicable to the bidder in §
34.105 by no later than the public bid opening. Post-bid submissions must be
submitted in accordance with §
34.106. Submissions deemed inadequate, incomplete, or untimely by the county
may result in the automatic disqualification of the bid.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-20-19)
§ 34.109 RESPONSIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BIDDER DETERMINATION.
   The county, after review of complete and timely submissions, shall, in its
sole discretion, after taking into account all information in the submission
requirements, determine whether a bidder is responsive and responsible. The
county specifically reserves the right to utilize all information provided in
the contractor or subcontractor's submission or any information obtained by the
county through its own independent verification of the information provided by
the contractor.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-20-19)
§ 34.110  CERTIFIED PAYROLL.
   (A)   For projects in which the cost is at least $250,000, the successful
bidder and all subcontractors working on a public work project shall submit a
certified payroll report utilizing the federal form now known as a WH-347 which
must be prepared on a weekly basis and submitted to the county within ten
calendar days after the end of each week in which the bidder or subcontractor
performed its work on the public work project. These certified payroll reports
shall identify the job title and craft of each employee on the project, e.g.
journeyman electrician or apprentice electrician. In the event any contractor
or subcontractor uses independent contractors to perform work on the project,
such individual must be identified on the WH-347 form with the same information
as is required for employees.
   (B)   The county may withhold payment due for work performed by a bidder if
the bidder fails to timely submit its certified payroll reports until such time
as such certified payroll reports are submitted. The county may also withhold
payment due for work performed by a subcontractor if the subcontractor fails to
timely submit its certified payroll reports until such time as such certified
payroll reports are submitted. The county shall not withhold payment to a
bidder for work performed by the bidder or for work performed by subcontractors
who have submitted their certified payroll reports, because one or more other
subcontractors failed to timely submit their certified payroll reports.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-20-19)
§ 34.111  PUBLIC RECORDS.
   All information submitted by a bidder or a subcontractor pursuant to this
subchapter, including certified payrolls, are public records subject to review
pursuant to the Indiana Access to Public Records law (I.C. 5-14-3).
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-20-19)
§ 34.112  PENALTIES FOR FALSE, DECEPTIVE, OR FRAUDULENT STATEMENTS/INFORMATION.
   Any bidder that willfully makes, or willfully causes to be made, a false,
deceptive or fraudulent statement, or willfully submits false, deceptive or
fraudulent information in connection with any submission made to the county
shall be disqualified from bidding on all county projects for a period of three
years.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-20-19)
APPENDIX:  COUNTY VEHICLE DECAL
[Click_here_to_view_decal.]
CHAPTER 35:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Watercraft; Emergency Lake Condition
   
35.01   Emergency lake condition
   
35.02   Notice by resolution
   
35.03   Emergency watercraft regulations
Hazardous Materials
   
35.15   Response Team
   
35.16   Definitions adopted
   
35.17   Reporting requirements adopted
   
35.18   Spill notifications
   
35.19   Investigations
   
35.20   Containment and clean-up; costs and expenses
National Incident Management System (NIMS)
   
35.30   Adoption
WATERCRAFT; EMERGENCY LAKE CONDITION
§ 35.01  EMERGENCY LAKE CONDITION.
   An “emergency lake condition” is created when the safety and the welfare of
the people owning property adjacent to a lake within the county are threatened
due to a high water level.
(`88 Code, § 6-1)
§ 35.02  NOTICE BY RESOLUTION.
   Upon adoption of a resolution by the Board of Commissioners of an emergency
lake condition, the Board may adopt rules and regulations addressing the
emergency.
(`88 Code, § 6-2)
§ 35.03  EMERGENCY WATERCRAFT REGULATIONS.
   The Board shall identify the name of the lake(s) affected and the township
where each is located, and may impose the following regulations and any other
regulations deemed necessary by the Board:
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-10-2-3 and 36-1-3-1 through 36-1-3-9, it shall be
unlawful for any watercraft to exceed ten miles per hour or to create a
hazardous wake or wash.
   (B)   The County Highway Department shall post signs by the designated
lakes, indicating it is unlawful to exceed ten miles per hour or to create a
wake or wash, and shall post these signs at marinas and other public facilities
in the lake area.
   (C)   The regulations shall remain in effect until such time as the
emergency no longer exists or the lake(s) recede to the legal level of 796.20
MSL, or when the state Department of Natural Resources rescinds any
administrative action regarding the emergency.
(`88 Code, § 6-3) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Home Rule, see I.C. 36-1-3-1 through 36-1-3-9
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
§ 35.15  RESPONSE TEAM.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON.  Individual, partnership, cooper- ative, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate, government entity, or any other legal
entity or their legal representative, agent, or assigns.
      RESPONSE.  Any and all instances when one or more members of the county
Hazardous Material Response Team are called out to the scene of an incident
involving the presence or suspected presence of dangerous, hazardous, or toxic
substances.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY.  The person liable for reimbursement for costs and
expenses associated with operation of the county Hazardous Material Response
Team.
   (B)   Hazardous, dangerous, or toxic substances.  Substances considered as
dangerous, hazardous, or toxic are those which are:
      (1)   Listed in the latest edition of the U.S. Department of
Transportation “Guidebook for Hazardous Material Incidents;”
      (2)   Listed in the latest edition of “Dangerous Properties of Industrial
Materials,” by N. Irving Sax, and which contain the terms “dangerous,”
“hazardous,” or “toxic” in the THR (Summary Toxicity Statement), the Disaster
Hazard Statement, the Fire Hazard Statement, the Explosion Hazard Statement, or
the Acute Toxicity Statement; or
      (3)   Listed in the latest edition of the “Condensed Chemical
Dictionary,” by Gessner G. Hauley, and the words “dangerous,” “hazardous,” or
“toxic” are used in the hazard explanation used to categorize the substance.
(`88 Code, § 6-105)
   (C)   Reimbursement of costs and expenses to the county.
      (1)   Any person that uses, stores, handles, transports, or disposes of
any dangerous, hazardous, or toxic substances or materials or any substance or
material reasonably believed to be dangerous, hazardous, or toxic in a fashion
or manner which necessitates a response by the county Hazardous Material
Response Team shall be liable to the county for reimbursement of the costs and
expenses made necessary by that response of the Hazardous Material Team
pursuant to the provisions of this section.
      (2)   The county Emergency Planning Committee Coordinator shall prepare a
billing pursuant to this section and shall submit the billing to the party
responsible for paying the costs and expenses identified in this code no later
than 30 days following any reimbursable responses of the county Hazardous
Material Response Team.
      (3)    The person responsible for reimbursing the county under the
provisions of this section shall tender payment in satisfaction of the
aforementioned billing no later than 30 days following receipt of the billing
prepared and issued by the Coordinator of the county Emergency Planning
Committee.
      (4)   Any person who fails to reimburse the county within the
aforementioned 30 days shall be deemed to have violated this code and shall be
subjected to a penalty equivalent to 5% of the total billed amount for every
day that the responsible party fails to tender reimbursement to the county.
      (5)   If a person objects to the afore- mentioned billing by the county
Emergency Planning Committee’s Coordinator, the responsible party must file
with the County Board of Commissioners a written objection to the billed
amount.  Upon receipt of a written objection, the County Board of Commissioners
shall place the matter on the agenda of its next regular scheduled meeting and
shall allow the responsible party an opportunity to object to the billing.  The
County Board of Commissioners shall then deliberate and issue a written opinion
concerning the appropriateness of the billed amount.  If the responsible party
objects to the decision of the County Board of Commissioners, a petition
requesting judicial review of the decision of the County Board of Commissioners
shall be filed with the County Circuit Court no later than 30 days from the
date of the decision of the County Board of Commissioners.  The Circuit Court
Judge shall conduct a hearing on the petition as expeditiously as is consistent
with the Court’s calendar.  The decision of the County Circuit Court Judge
shall be final unless the responsible party appeals the decision pursuant to
the appeal procedure for any civil matter.
(`88 Code, § 6-106)
   (D)   Charges.
      (1)   Any time that the Hazardous Material Response Team is called to the
scene of an incident, the responsible party of the incident shall reimburse the
county, at replacement costs, for any hazardous material response equipment or
supplies which are damaged, lost, spent, destroyed, rendered irreparable, or
used up in responding to or managing the incident.
      (2)   In addition to the reimbursement obligations contained above, the
responsible party shall be billed by the county Emergency Planning Coordinator:
         (a)   For an initial response of Hazardous Material Unit #1000 of one
hour or less, the sum of $250;
         (b)   For each additional hour (or fraction thereof) of on-site
assistance, there shall be billed $150 per Unit #1000;
         (c)   For expendable materials such as absorption material,
emulsifiers, personal protection clothing, and the like, the actual replacement
costs for these items will be charged; and
         (d)   For collection of debris, chemicals, fuels, or contaminated
materials resulting from a spill, the actual cost of removal and disposal at an
authorized location will be charged.
      (3)   In the event the county Hazardous Material Response Team responds
to an incident outside of the boundaries of the county and in a county with
which the county does not have a reciprocal response agreement, the requesting
authority shall be billed the sum of $2,000 per incident response.  This charge
shall be in addition to any and all charges for which the responsible party may
be held responsible under this section.
      (4)   If the county Hazardous Material Response Team utilizes outside
contractors or equipment and materials other than that which is part of the
hazardous materials team inventory, the responsible party shall be billed the
actual costs incurred in connection with the outside contractors, including
clean-up contractors, or the actual costs of the additional equipment or
supplies.
      (5)   On those occasions when a hazardous material incident only
necessitates a response by the county Emergency Planning Coordinator or his or
her designee, the responsible party shall be billed by the county Emergency
Planning Coordinator at the rate of $50 per man/hour (or fraction thereof) for
the time committed to the incident by the county Emergency Planning Department
personnel.
(`88 Code, § 6-107)  (Ord. 90-2, passed 1-22-90; Am. Ord. 98-1, passed 1-27-98;
Am. Ord. 2001-01, passed 1-23-01)
§ 35.16  DEFINITIONS ADOPTED.
   The definitions contained in 327 I.A.C. 2-6-1 are adopted herein as the
definitions to be used in §§ 35.16 through 35.20 except to the extent that
other terms and conditions of this code may dictate otherwise.
(`88 Code, § 6-150)  (Ord. 92-5, passed 7-6-92)
§ 35.17  REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ADOPTED.
   The reporting requirements contained in 327 I.A.C. 2-6.1 are adopted and
incorporated into this code except to the extent that other terms and
conditions of this code may dictate otherwise.
(`88 Code, § 6-151)  (Ord. 92-5, passed 7-6-92)
§ 35.18  SPILL NOTIFICATIONS.
   Any person required to submit a spill notification to the Office of
Environmental Emergency Response of the state Department of Environmental
Management pursuant to 327 I.A.C. 2-6.1 shall immediately thereafter
communicate an identical spill notification to the county Emergency Dispatch
Center.
(`88 Code, § 6-152)  (Ord. 92-5, passed 7-6-92)
§ 35.19  INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon receipt of a spill notification, the county Emergency Dispatch Center
shall notify the county Emergency Coordinator of Hazardous Materials.  The
county Emergency Coordinator, or his or her designate, shall investigate the
spill report and shall determine the appropriate response.
(`88 Code, § 6-153)  (Ord. 92-5, passed 7-6-92)
§ 35.20  CONTAINMENT AND CLEAN-UP; COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The county Emergency Coordinator or his or her designate shall be
granted and allowed immediate access to any premises upon which a spill has
occurred. 
      (1)   The county Emergency Coordinator shall determine whether timely and
appropriate action has been initiated to contain and clean up the spill. 
      (2)   If appropriate actions and activities have not been initiated, the
county Emergency Coordinator shall assume the leadership role for the
containment and clean-up activities. 
      (3)   The members of the county Hazardous Materials Response Team shall
be immediately allowed access to any premises upon which the county Emergency
Coordinator or his or her designate has determined there to be a need for
clean-up activity by the team.
   (B)   The costs and expenses associated with the involvement of the
Emergency Coordinator of the county and/or the county Hazardous Material
Response Team in the containment and clean-up of any spill shall be reimbursed
to the county.
   (C)   Any person who owns, operates, controls, or maintains any facility,
premises, or vehicle involved in a spill shall submit to the county Emergency
Coordinator, or his or her designee, any and all reports, information,
laboratory tests, or other data deemed necessary and appropriate by the county
Emergency Coordinator in order to evaluate the containment and clean-up
activities, and to carry out the purpose and intent of this subchapter.
(`88 Code, § 6-154)  (Ord. 92-5, passed 7-6-92) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS)
§ 35.30 ADOPTION.
   The County of LaPorte hereby adopts the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents.
(Res. 2005-02, passed 2-1-05)
CHAPTER 36:  FINANCES; TAXATION AND FUNDS
Section
Finances
   
36.01   Monitor recipients of federal funds
   
36.02   Work release program fees; account
   
36.03   Vending Profits and Commissions Account
   
36.04   Animal Shelter Adoption and Spay/Neuter Fees Account
   
36.05   Landfill revenue increase; road improvements
   
36.06   Pre-approval or pre-payment procedures
   
36.07   Internal control standards
Funds
   
36.15   Unsafe Building Fund
   
36.16   County Corrections Fund
   
36.17   Parks and Recreation; non-reverting operating fund
   
36.18   Highway Fund; interest
   
36.19   Law Enforcement Fund
   
36.20   Child Advocacy Fund
   
36.21   Jail Bond Elimination Fund
   
36.22   Special Vehicle Inspection Fund
   
36.23   Riverboat Fund
   
36.24   The Ted and Ruth Rohrabaugh Memorial Fund
   
36.25   Affordable Housing Fund
   
36.26   Non-Reverting Telephone Commissions Fund
   
36.27   Non-Reverting County Coroner Fund
   
36.28   MS-4 Bond Fund
Taxation
   
36.35   Adjusted Gross Income Tax
   
36.36   Economic Development Income Tax
   
36.37   County Innkeepers’ Tax
   
36.38   Application of rebates to delinquent property taxes
   
36.39   Homestead exemptions/credits
Statutory reference:
   County Parks and Recreation Board authority to establish a non-reverting
fund, see I.C. 36-10-3-22
FINANCES
§ 36.01  MONITOR RECIPIENTS OF FEDERAL FUNDS.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners adopts a policy of monitoring sub-
agency recipients of federal funds.  To this end, the Board of Commissioners
agrees to monitor and, if necessary, audit any agency or institution receiving
money through the County Board of Commissioners. 
   (B)   (1)   This monitoring, or audit, if necessary, shall occur a minimum
of one time per calendar year.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners may determine that more frequent
inquiries and monitoring efforts are necessary, and in that case, conduct these
reviews within their discretion.
(`88 Code, § 2-165)  (Res. 87-4, passed 1-17-87)
Cross-reference:
   Board of Commissioners, liaison duties, see §
30.04
§ 36.02  WORK RELEASE PROGRAM FEES; ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The Sheriff of the county shall collect all fees generated by the Work
Release and Community Corrections programs.
   (B)   These fees shall be deposited into Account 590-591 and disbursed by
the Sheriff, at his or her discretion, without prior approval, unless any
disbursement should exceed $5,000, in which event the Sheriff shall seek the
approval of the County Board of Commissioners.
(`88 Code, § 2-167)  (Res. 89-3, passed 4-24-89)
Cross-reference:
   Sheriff’s Department, see §
32.006
   Sheriff’s employment program for inmates, see §
34.03
§ 36.03  VENDING PROFITS AND COMMISSIONS ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is established a special account, to be known as the Vending
Profits and Commissions Account, which shall be under the joint supervision of
the County Auditor and the County Treasurer.
   (B)   Any and all proceeds or profits from employee-operated vending
machines as well as commissions paid by private, for-profit vending machine
firms shall regularly be deposited into this account.
   (C)   As the need for disbursements arises, the President of the County
Commissioners is empowered to make a request to both the County Auditor and the
County Treasurer, who shall then execute a check in the requested amount by co-
signing that instrument.
   (D)   All receipts and disbursements from the Vending Profits and
Commissions Account shall be regularly itemized and maintained in a ledger
available for public inspection and/or review.
(`88 Code, § 2-169) (Ord. 90-14, passed 11-19-90)
§ 36.04  ANIMAL SHELTER ADOPTION AND SPAY/NEUTER FEES ACCOUNT.
   (A)   There is established a special account to be known as the county
Animal Shelter Adoption and Spay/Neuter Fees Account, which shall be under the
joint supervision of the County Auditor and the County Treasurer.
   (B)   Any and all fees received by the county Animal Shelter shall be
regularly deposited into this account.
   (C)   These deposits shall be made at least monthly.
   (D)   Upon presentation from the Director of the county Animal Shelter of a
bill for services rendered by a veterinarian performing either spay or neuter
procedure on an adopted animal, the County Auditor and County Treasurer shall
then execute payment in the amount requested by co-signing the instrument.
   (E)   All receipts and disbursements from the county Animal Adoption and
Spay/Neuter Fees Account shall be regularly itemized and maintained in a ledger
available for public inspection and/or review.
   (F)   The balance of the account on December 31 of any given year shall be
transferred into the General Fund of the county.
   (G)   The balance indicated above shall be reduced by an amount equivalent
to any unpaid fees as evidenced by bill or invoice from veterinarians
performing the contemplated services.
(`88 Code, § 2-169.1)  (Ord. 91-2, passed 2-11-91)
Cross-reference:
   Animal adoption and redemption, see §
94.37
   Animal Control Advisory Commission, see §
32.046
   Dog tag funds paid to Humane Society, see §
37.17
§ 36.05  LANDFILL REVENUE INCREASE; ROAD IMPROVEMENTS.
   The County Board of Commissioners and the County Council resolve that no
less than 100% of the revenue realized from the increase in the fees for the
county sanitary landfill should be dedicated to a road improvement and repair
program.  It is the express intention of the County Board of Commissioners and
the County Council that no less than 100% of that money shall be made available
for a comprehensive road improvement and repair program.
(`88 Code, § 2-170.1)  (Res. 94-5, passed 10-24-94)
Cross-reference:
   Highway Department, see §
32.002
§ 36.06  PRE-APPROVAL OR PRE-PAYMENT PROCEDURES.
   The following categories are designated for pre-approval or pre-payment
procedures:
   (A)   Property or services purchased or leased from the U.S. Government, its
agencies or its political subdivisions;
   (B)   License or permit fees;
   (C)   Insurance premiums;
   (D)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
   (E)   General grant programs where advance funding is prohibited;
   (F)   Grants or state funds authorized by statute;
   (G)   Maintenance or service agreements;
   (H)   Lease or rental payments;
   (I)   Bond or coupon payments;
   (J)   Payroll;
   (K)   State or federal taxes;
   (L)   Expenses paid for emergency services;
   (M)   Collect freight deliveries;
   (N)   Conference registrations approved by the Board of Commissioners;
   (O)   Reimbursement for conference expenses incurred while attending
approved conferences;
   (P)   Credit card or charge card expenses incurred by LaPorte County
Government Offices for lawful purposes;
   (Q)   Postage.
(Ord. 2001-28, passed 12-18-01)
§ 36.07  INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adoption of internal control standards. The County Board of
Commissioners hereby establishes a system of internal control for the county
based expressly upon the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions in the Report of the State of Indiana Board of Accounts
dated September, 2015, in pertinent part, in order to promote government
accountability and transparency as its core objective and standard.
   (B)   Establish materiality threshold. For the purpose of complying with
requirements of I.C. 5-11-1-27(j), the County Board of Commissioners hereby
adopts a materiality threshold of $5,000 for cash items and $10,000 for non-
cash items as to when notification of the State Board of Accounts is
immediately notified of an erroneous or irregular material variance, loss,
shortage, or theft of county funds.
   (C)   Personnel training. The personnel of the county whose official duties
include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having
access to funds that belong to the county, federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall be
trained at least once during a calendar year, and annually thereafter, unless
on administrative leave status, on the minimum internal control standards and
procedures and any other standards and procedures determined necessary by the
county and shall cooperate with the Auditor so that the Auditor can timely
certify to the State Board of Accounts that the training was received annually
by those personnel as required by law.
   (D)   Elected and appointed officials and employees of the county. All
elected and appointed officials and employees of the county are hereby directed
to abide by and to cooperate fully in the implementation of the internal
control policy of the county.
   (E)   Reports on compliance by Auditor. At least annually, the Auditor shall
provide a written report to the Board of Commissioners regarding the status of
the implementation of the internal control policies set forth, including, but
not limited to, the appropriate training and monitoring, any incidents of
significant noncompliance with the policies set forth and any disciplinary
action imposed as a result thereof, and any financial losses due to employee
misconduct, including, but not limited to, failure to comply with the county's
documented internal control policies.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-3-16)
FUNDS
§ 36.15  UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is established in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-14 as
it may be amended from time to time.
(`88 Code, § 2-162)  (Ord. 83-7, passed 7-11-83)
§ 36.16  COUNTY CORRECTIONS FUND.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby elects to receive deposits from the
Department of Correction in accordance with I.C. 11-12-6.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby elects to receive these deposits at
Level 3 funding.
   (C)   There is hereby created a County Corrections Fund, to be administered
by the County Council.  The Fund shall consist of deposits received from the
Department of Correction in accordance with I.C. 11-12-6, and quarterly reports
shall be submitted to both the County Council and Board of Commissioners with
reference to same.
   (D)   The County Corrections Fund may be used only for funding the operation
of the County Jail, jail programs, or other local correctional facilities.  Any
money remaining in the County Corrections Fund at the end of the year does not
revert to any other fund but remains in the County Corrections Fund.
(`88 Code, § 2-163)  (Ord. 86-4, passed 4-28-86; Am. Ord. 87-3, passed 4-16-87;
Am. Ord. 97-1, passed 2-18-97; Am. Ord. 98-2, passed 2-3-98)
§ 36.17  PARKS AND RECREATION; NON-REVERTING OPERATING FUND.
   (A)   The County Council approves the establishment by the Parks and
Recreation Board of a non-reverting operating fund for the following purposes: 
as a depository for all receipts from recreational activities where the Parks
Board determines a fee is necessary to provide the activity.
   (B)   Expenditures shall be made from this fund to cover expenses required
to promote and provide recreational activities mentioned in the above section,
and all expenditures shall be made by Parks Board appropriation in accordance
with applicable state law and regulations.
   (C)   Monies procured from approved activities shall be deposited at least
once each month with the Auditor.
   (D)   Money from the non-reverting operating fund may be disbursed only on
approved claims allowed and signed by the President and Secretary of the Board.
(`88 Code, § 2-164)  (Ord. passed 4-10-84)
Cross-reference:
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see
Chapter 33
§ 36.18  HIGHWAY FUND; INTEREST.
   (A)   The County Treasurer shall receipt all interest investment monies
generated per I.C. 5-13-9-6(c) to the county Highway Fund.
   (B)   Unless further directed by the County Council, after $400,000 have
been receipted per division (A) of this section, the County Treasurer shall
once again receipt all monies generated per I.C. 5-13-9-6(c) to the county
General Fund.
(`88 Code, § 2-166)  (Ord. 89-2, passed 7-24-89)
Cross-reference:
   Highway Department, see §
32.002
§ 36.19  LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created a Law Enforcement Fund and Law
Enforcement Fund Reserve. 
      (2)   The Funds shall consist of deposits in the form of restitution from
criminal defendants, other law enforcement related fees, proceeds from
forfeiture actions, and liquidation of seized property (real and personal)
recovered by the office of the County Prosecuting Attorney, which are not
required to be deposited into the county General Fund.
   (B)   Funds in excess of $100,000 deposited in  the Law Enforcement Fund
shall be distributed in accordance with I.C. 34-24-1-1 and 34-24-1-5.
   (C)   Money from the Law Enforcement Fund shall be subject to I.C. 36-2-5-2.
   (D)   All money collected under this Section shall be transferred to the
County Auditor who shall:
      (1)   Deposit the first $100,000 into the Law Enforcement Fund;
      (2)   Disburse the money in the Law Enforcement Fund, not in excess of
$100,000, as the Prosecuting Attorney directs;
      (3)   Deposit all money in excess of the first $100,000 into the Law
Enforcement Fund Reserve; and
      (4)   Disburse the money in the Law Enforcement Fund Reserve as the
County Council directs.
   (E)   (1)   The Prosecuting Attorney shall have discretion to direct the
County Auditor to distribute, for law enforcement purposes, money in the Law
Enforcement Fund. 
      (2)   When the money in the Law Enforcement Fund is less than $100,000,
the Prosecuting Attorney shall request the County Council to direct the County
Auditor to transfer money from the Law Enforcement Fund Reserve to return to
the Law Enforcement Fund in an amount equal to the difference between the
balance of the Law Enforcement Fund and $100,000.
   (F)   Money in the Law Enforcement Fund and the Law Enforcement Fund Reserve
at the end of the fiscal year does not revert to any other fund, but shall
remain in these Funds.
(`88 Code, § 2-168)  (Ord. 91-8, passed 5-20-91; Am. Ord. 97-22, passed 9-9-97)
Cross-reference:
   Sheriff’s Department, see §
32.006
§ 36.20  CHILD ADVOCACY FUND.
   The County Auditor shall establish a continuing, non-reverting fund entitled
the county Child Advocacy Fund.  County Child Advocacy Fees collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with I.C. 33-19-7-1(d) shall be deposited in the
county Child Advocacy Fund.  All balances remaining in this Fund at the end of
the fiscal year shall not lapse into the county General Fund or be diverted
directly or indirectly in any manner other than as set forth in I.C. 33-19-7-1
(d).
(Ord. 97-23, passed 9-16-97)
§ 36.21  JAIL BOND ELIMINATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Jail Bond Elimination Fund.
   (B)   The Fund shall be funded by the county economic development income tax
fund (CEDIT Fund) and earned interest monies above forecasted miscellaneous
revenues for each budget year.
   (C)   Appropriations into the Fund shall be at least $950,000 annually.
   (D)   The County Treasurer shall invest the appropriations and the earned
interest shall go directly into the Fund.
   (E)   At the end of ten years, or as soon thereafter as possible, the monies
of the Jail Bond Elimination Fund shall be used solely to pay off the remaining
debt.
   (F)   Any remaining monies, if any, shall revert back to the General Fund,
and the Jail Bond Elimination Fund shall cease to exist.
(Ord. 2001-16, passed 9-11-01)
Cross-reference:
   Economic development income tax, see §
36.36
§ 36.22  SPECIAL VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners does hereby determine that a need
exists for the creation of a Vehicle Inspection Fund to be established and
operated pursuant to I.C. 9-29-4-1.
   (B)   (1)   A need exists to establish a fee chargeable by the County
Sheriff’s Department for inspecting a vehicle and making a record of the
inspection upon the application form for the issuance of a certificate of title
to the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-29-4-2 et seq. 
      (2)   This fee shall be in the amount of $5 and shall be deposited in the
Vehicle Inspection Fund.
(Ord. 96-25, passed 12-23-96)
Cross-reference:
   Sheriff’s Department, see §
32.006
§ 36.23  RIVERBOAT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Riverboat Fund.  The Fund shall consist of
deposits in the form of admissions tax imposed on the Blue Chip Casino
Riverboat in Michigan City, and/or any other gambling revenues realized by the
county.
   (B)   Money from the Riverboat Fund shall be subject to, and distributed in
accordance with, I.C. 36-1-8-9.
   (C)   All money collected as, and for, riverboat admissions tax shall be
deposited in the Riverboat Fund.
   (D)   Amounts deposited in the Riverboat Fund shall be dedicated to, and
used for, the repair and maintenance of the county highways and the repair,
maintenance, and security of all county buildings and facilities.
   (E)   Money in the county Riverboat Fund, at the end of the fiscal year,
does not revert to any other fund, but shall remain in the Riverboat Fund.
(Ord. 97-25, passed 10-7-97)
Cross-reference:
   Highway Department, see §
32.002
§ 36.24  THE TED AND RUTH ROHRABAUGH MEMORIAL FUND.
   (A)   The County Auditor is directed to set up a separate fund encaptioned
“The Ted and Ruth Rohrabaugh Memorial Fund.”
   (B)   The fund is to be used exclusively for the restoration and
preservation of the LaPorte County Home as directed by the County Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   Restoration and preservation will include not only the physical
facility but also various expenditures necessary to enhance the quality of life
for the benefit of individuals residing at the LaPorte County Home.
   (D)   The fund shall be used in addition to the usual and customary
appropriation of funds by LaPorte County for the LaPorte County Home.
   (E)   The fund may be used for any further donations or gifts made to the
county for use by the LaPorte County Home.
   (F)   The County Auditor will take all necessary steps to invest the funds
for the use and direction by the County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2002-11, passed 7-2-02)
§ 36.25  AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created pursuant to I.C. 5-20-5-15.5 the LaPorte
County Affordable Housing Fund.
   (B)   There is hereby created pursuant to I.C. 5-20-5-18 the LaPorte County
Housing Fund Advisory Committee which shall consist of the following 11
appointed members:
      (1)   Six members appointed by the LaPorte County Board of Commissioners,
one of which shall represent each of the following interests:
         (a)   The interest of low-income families.
         (b)   The interest of owners of subsidized, multi-housing communities.
         (c)   The interest of real estate brokers and sales persons. This
member must be nominated to the County Commissioners by the local realtors
association.
         (d)   The interest of local construction trades. This member must be
nominated to the County Commissioners by the local building trades council or
association.
      (2)   Five members appointed by the LaPorte County Council representing
the community at large. Members appointed under this section must be nominated
to the LaPorte County Council after a general call for nominations from
township trustees, community development organizations and other social service
agencies.
      (3)   In addition to the appointed members as above noted, the President
of the LaPorte County Board of Commissioners, the Mayor of LaPorte and the
Mayor of Michigan City shall serve as ex officio members of the Committee.
   (C)   Members of the LaPorte County Affordable Housing Fund Advisory
Committee serve for a term of four years and are eligible for appointment. If a
vacancy exists on the Committee, the appointing authority that appointed the
former member whose position has become vacant shall appoint an individual to
fill the vacancy. A Committee member may be removed at any time by the
appointing authority that appointed the Committee member.
   (D)   The Affordable Housing Fund Advisory Committee shall:
      (1)   Develop policies and procedures for the uses of the Affordable
Housing Fund; and
      (2)   Develop and promote long-term sources of capital for the Affordable
Housing Fund, including:
         (a)   Revenue from:
            1.   Development ordinances;
            2.   Fees; or
            3.   Taxes;
         (b)   Financial market based income;
         (c)   Revenue derived from private sources; and
         (d)   Revenue generated from grants, gifts, donations, or income in
any other form from a:
            1.   Government program;
            2.   Foundation; or
            3.   Corporation.
   (E)   In developing policies and procedures, the Advisory Committee shall
follow the rules and regulations promulgated by the Indiana Housing Finance
Authority pursuant to I.C. 5-20-5-19 and I.C. 4-22-2. However, in developing
grant criteria, priorities shall be given to local, not-for-profit charitable
organizations with a demonstrated history of effectively utilizing volunteer
work to facilitate cost- effective housing.
   (F)   There shall be an executive committee of the Advisory Committee which
shall consist of five Committee members appointed by the Committee by vote,
which committee shall be the designated administrative agency under I.C. 5-20-
5-15.1(a). The President of the Board of Commissioners of LaPorte County, the
Mayor of the City of Michigan City and the Mayor of LaPorte shall be ex officio
members of the executive committee.
(Ord. 18, passed 9-16-08)
§ 36.26  NON-REVERTING TELEPHONE COMMISSIONS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a non-reverting, special fund to be known
as the Telephone Commissions Fund (the “Fund”), which shall be under the joint
supervision of the County Auditor and the County Treasurer.
   (B)   Any and all commissions or payments received by the county and/or the
County Sheriff’s Department from any telephone service provider or vendor as a
result of any contractual relationship with the county and/or the County
Sheriff’s Department shall be regularly deposited into the Fund.
   (C)   The Fund may be used for any purpose provided for under applicable
state and local laws, but no amount shall be expended from the Fund unless a
request is submitted to and an appropriation is approved by the County Council.
   (D)   Upon receiving notification of approval of an appropriation for a
requested expenditure, the County Auditor and the County Treasurer shall then
cause a payment to be made from the Fund in the amount requested by co-signing
the requisite documentation.
   (E)   All receipts and disbursements from this Fund shall be regularly
itemized and maintained in a ledger available for public inspection and/or
review.
   (F)   The balance of this Fund on December 31 of each year shall remain in
the Fund.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 10-19-10)
§ 36.27  NON-REVERTING COUNTY CORONER FUND.
   (A)   County Coroner Non-Reverting Fund.
      (1)   Establishment. There is hereby established for LaPorte County a
Non-Reverting County Coroner Fund. The LaPorte County Auditor is authorized to
take all appropriate steps to create the Fund, and to budget and account for
the same in accordance with all applicable statutes, rules and regulations
governing such funds.
      (2)   Source of funds. Fees collected by the coroner for providing
coroner services to counties and units of government located outside of LaPorte
County, Indiana shall be deposited into the LaPorte County Coroner Non-
Reverting Fund.
      (3)   Disbursement of funds. The fiscal body of the county may
appropriate money from the County Coroner Non-Reverting Fund as requested by
the coroner for payment of coroner expenses, including purchase of coroner
supplies, body bags, protective equipment, to offset the cost of vehicle
allowances, including but not limited to transportation and mileage, including
training, and other expenses incurred by the coroner, and any money remaining
in the Fund at the end of the year does not revert to any other fund but
continues in the County Coroner Non-Reverting Fund.
   (B)   County coroner service fee for non- county services.
      (1)   Authorized fee. When LaPorte County Coroner performs services as
the coroner in connection with a corpse that would otherwise be handled by a
coroner in another county, but for the location of the corpse in LaPorte
County, the LaPorte County coroner is authorized to charge a fee of $400 to the
entity or government unit benefitting from the services provided by the LaPorte
County coroner. The coroner shall provide further itemized detail should
billing to an entity or government unit exceed the basic $400 cited above.
      (2)   Document request by: Insurance companies, investigative entities,
public requests and family member shall be charged fees as follows:
         (a)   $50 per autopsy;
         (b)   $30 per toxicology;
         (c)   $30 per coroner's report.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 2-20-19)
§ 36.28  MS-4 BOND FUND.
   (A)   The LaPorte County Auditor shall establish an account for the purpose
of receiving monies from MS-4 bonds called the MS-4 Bond Fund.
   (B)   The Administrator for this fund shall be the LaPorte County MS-
4 Coordinator.
   (C)   The fund established with the LaPorte County Auditor for the holding
of MS-4 bond monies shall be used exclusively for holding bonds paid as
required by MS-4.
   (D)   Monies collected may be used for any necessary completion of bonded
projects, and refunded upon completion of each project, subject to the
discretion of the MS-4 Coordinator.
   (E)   The MS-4 Coordinator, in using his/her discretion shall follow all
applicable rules and regulations concerning the collection, payment of monies,
and release of bonds which are applicable to the MS-4 bonding process.
(Ord. 2014-5, passed 5-27-14)
TAXATION
§ 36.35  ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The County Council imposes the county adjusted gross income tax
(CAGIT) on the county taxpayers.  The county adjusted gross income tax is
imposed at a rate of one-half percent on the resident county taxpayers of the
county and one-fourth percent on the non-resident county taxpayers of the
county.
(`88 Code, § 2-170)  (Ord. 94-1, passed 3-24-94; Am. Counc. Ord. 1997-01,
passed 3-24-97)
   (B)   (1)   The County Board of Commissioners and the County Council resolve
that no less than 50% of all available revenue from the recently enacted county
adjusted gross income tax shall be dedicated solely for the purpose of road
repair and improvement.  This 50% figure shall be calculated after the payment
of principal and interest on the bonds and any related expenses. 
      (2)   It is the express intention of the County Board of Commissioners
and the County Council that no less than 50% of that money remaining after the
payment of the aforementioned expenses shall be made available for a
comprehensive road improvement and repair program.
(`88 Code, § 2-170)  (Joint Res. 94-6, passed 10-24-94)
Cross-reference:
   Highway Department, see §
32.002
§ 36.36  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The County Council imposes the county economic development income tax
(CEDIT) on the county taxpayers.  The county economic development income tax is
imposed at a rate of 0.45% on the county taxpayers of the county.
   (B)   The County Council finds and determines that the expenditure of the
county’s distributive share of the CEDIT to finance the construction of road
improvements in the county constitutes an economic development project under
I.C. 6-3.5-7.  The county’s distributive share of the CEDIT shall be used
solely for the construction of road improvements and related improvements.
   (C)   The County Council elects to have the CEDIT distributed by the County
Auditor on the basis of levy as specified in I.C. 6-3.5-7-12(c).
(Counc. Ord. 1997-05, passed 5-28-97)
Cross-reference:
   Highway Department, see §
32.002
§ 36.37  COUNTY INNKEEPERS’ TAX.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-9-6-6(b), as amended, the
county Innkeepers’ Tax shall be reported on forms approved by the County
Treasurer, and the county Innkeepers’ Tax shall be paid monthly to the County
Treasurer. 
      (2)   The county Innkeepers’ Tax shall be paid to the County Treasurer
not more than 20 days after the end of the month in which the tax is collected.
(`88 Code, § 3-125)
   (B)   The County Treasurer is authorized, instructed, and empowered to
prepare the necessary documents, establish the necessary and appropriate
procedures, and do any and all other things necessary to establish procedures
for local collection of the county Innkeepers’ Tax, all as provided by I.C. 6-
9-6-6, as amended from time to time. 
(`88 Code, § 3-126)  (Ord. 92-1, passed 3-23-92)
§ 36.38  APPLICATION OF REBATES TO DELINQUENT PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   No individual or entity will receive a tax rebate if such individual
or entity owes delinquent property tax, real or personal.
   (B)   Any tax rebate will be first applied to such delinquent taxes.
   (C)   After application of such rebate to delinquent taxes, any balance of
rebate will be issued to such individual or entity.
   (D)   The Treasurer and Auditor will take the necessary action to implement
the purpose of this section.
(Ord. 2007-27, passed 12-4-07)
§ 36.39  HOMESTEAD EXEMPTIONS/CREDITS.
   (A)   This policy is based on I.C. 6-1.1-20.9 et seq. and any subsequent
amendments.
   (B)   In the event there is a question regarding the residence of an
application for the homestead exemption, the Auditor’s Office may ask the
applicant for additional documentation to verify such residence to include a
driver’s license and/or a voter’s registration card as well as any other
documentation as normally required by the LaPorte County Auditor.
   (C)   In the even of a husband and wife each requesting a separate homestead
exemption/credit for two separate properties, the same information may be
required as well as a copy of any separation agreement.
   (D)   In the event it has been determined by the county that an individual
has filed for a homestead exemption/credit for which they are not entitled and
an exemption or credit has been given, the LaPorte County Auditor may maintain
an action against such individual to reclaim the value of any exemption or
credit given plus a 10% penalty, costs of maintaining the action to include
attorney fees and any other statutory penalty that may be available as a result
of the filing of such improper homestead exemption/credit.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 3-18–08)
CHAPTER 37:  FEES, LICENSES, AND PERMITS
Section
County Authority
   
37.01   Authority to grant licenses and franchises
   
37.02   Authority to charge fees
General Fees and Payments
   
37.15   Dishonored check fee
   
37.16   Real property endorsement fee
   
37.17   Dog tag payment
   
37.18   Export of real estate tax data; fee
   
37.19   Tax statements; service reproduction fee
   
37.20   Copy fees
   
37.21   GIS copy fees
Health Department Fees
   
37.30   Authority; Board of Health
   
37.31   Definitions
   
37.32   Environmental health services
   
37.33   Personal health services
   
37.34   Vital records services
   
37.35   Food service establishment licenses
   
37.36   Fee collection, accounting, and disposition
Emergency Medical Services and Fees
   
37.50   Schedule of fees
Emergency Telephone System and Fees
   
37.60   Monthly service fees
   
37.61   Primary Public Safety Answering Point
   
37.62   Site committee
   
37.63   State law controls
Permit Fees
   
37.75   Parades and rallies
   
37.76   Street closings
   
37.77   House moving; permits and bonding
   
37.78   Utility lines
   
37.79   Building construction
   
37.80   Road cuts
   
37.81   Driveways
   
37.82   Cable and pipeline permits subject to cancellation
   
37.83   Landfill operation
   
37.84   Mobile homes
Jail Inmates; Fees
   
37.95   Health co-payments required
   
37.96   Health co-payment; exceptions
   
37.97   Co-payment procedures and depository
   
37.98   Inmate processing fee
   
37.99   Fee collection and depository
Sex or Violent Offender Fees
   
37.100   Sex or violent offender registration fees and address change fees
Cross-reference:
   Animal adoption and redemption, see §
94.37
   Cell tower permit fees, see § 157.102
   Emergency Medical Services, see §
32.105
   Food service licenses and fees, see §§
110.15 through
110.19
   Garbage disposal permits, see §
50.02
   Health Department, see §
32.001
   Highway Department, see §
32.002
   Parks; permits, reservations, and fees, see §§
33.51 and
93.03
   Public pool, spa, and hot tub permits, see §
92.45
   Sheriff’s Department, see §
32.006
Statutory reference:
   Authorization of real property endorsement fee, see I.C. 36-2-9-18
   Authorization to regulate environmental health, see I.C. 36-8-2-4 and 36-8-
2-10
   Authorization to require inmate co-payment, see I.C. 11-12-5-5
   Licenses, permits, franchises, see I.C. 36-2-2-23
   Limits to power of administrative costs, see I.C. 36-1-3-8
COUNTY AUTHORITY
§ 37.01  AUTHORITY TO GRANT LICENSES AND FRANCHISES.
   The Board of Commissioners may grant licenses or franchises for the use of
county property if they:
   (A)   Are not exclusive;
   (B)   Are of a definite duration; and
   (C)   Are assignable only with the consent of the county executive.
(`88 Code, § 3-1)
§ 37.02  AUTHORITY TO CHARGE FEES.
   The county may impose a fee for licenses or permits which is reasonably
related to the admin- istrative cost of exercising the regulatory powers.
(`88 Code, § 3-2)
GENERAL FEES AND PAYMENTS
§ 37.15  DISHONORED CHECK FEE.
   (A)   Any county office or any person or business located in LaPorte County,
receiving a check that is not honored when presented for payment is authorized
to collect a protest fee of up to $20 for each dishonored check received.
   (B)   The office of the Prosecuting Attorney is hereby authorized to collect
a service fee of up to $27.50 for each dishonored check which it processes for
collection.
   (C)   All protest fees collected for any county office and service fees
collected are to be considered General Fund miscellaneous revenue, subject to
the normal appropriation process by the county fiscal body and shall be
remitted directly to the County Auditor.
(`88 Code, §  3-90)  (Ord. 91-14, passed 6-10-91; Am. Ord. 1996-18, passed 10-
28-96; Am. Ord. 2003-11, passed 6-17-03)
Statutory reference:
   Check deception, see I.C. 35-43-5-5
§ 37.16  REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT FEE.
   The County Auditor is authorized to collect a $3 fee for each real property
endorsement which the Auditor makes.  This fee is in addition to any other fee
which may be provided for by law, and the Auditor shall place the revenue
received from these fees in the dedicated fund for use in maintaining plat
books housed within the Auditor’s Office.
(`88 Code, § 3-91)  (Ord. 90-1, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 94-2, passed 1-31-94)
§ 37.17  DOG TAG PAYMENT.
   The Michigan City Humane Society is designated to receive $.50 from each dog
tag payment collected pursuant to I.C. 15-5-9, in that the Humane Society shall
use funds dispersed to maintain an animal shelter.
(`88 Code, § 3-93)  (Ord. 92-2, passed 11-23-92)
§ 37.18  EXPORT OF REAL ESTATE TAX DATA; FEE.
   To cover the costs of reproducing the data and materials and supplies used,
such as disks, each application for the exportation of electronic real estate
tax data shall be accompanied by a check or cash equal to the greater of:  $.10
per real estate parcel identification number included on a disk, or $75.
(Ord. 98-19, passed 10-13-98)
§ 37.19  TAX STATEMENTS; SERVICE REPRODUCTION FEE.
   In the event that a taxpayer has misplaced his or her statement of current
taxes, delinquent taxes, and special assessments and then attempts payment of
taxes due and owing without the statement, thereby necessitating the printing
of a new statement, the County Treasurer is authorized to collect a service
reproduction fee of $1.50 per statement printed.
(`88 Code, § 3-77)  (Ord. 86-10, passed 10-6-86)
§ 37.20 COPY FEES.
   (A)   The following fees are established for copying in county offices:
      (1)   Regular copy fees  - 15 cents per page;
      (2)   Faxes - 15 cents per page;
      (3)   Real estate data disc - $75, or $60 if the disc is provided;
      (4)   Individual real estate data sheets - 50 cents per page; and
      (5)   Mass storage device - $60.
   (B)   All funds collected by any department or office regarding such fees
shall be deposited with the County Auditor no less than weekly, and the same
shall be deposited in the County General Fund.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-07)
§ 37.21 GIS COPY FEES.
   (A)   The following fees are established for copying from the GIS system in
county offices:
      (1)   Printing and copying.
         (a)   $1 per square foot;
         (b)   E size 12 square foot - $12;
         (c)   D size 9 square foot - $9;
         (d)   C size 5 square foot - $5;
         (e)   Tabloid 11x17 - $2; and
         (f)   Letter - 8.5x11 - $1.
      (2)   Scanning - $2 per sheet.
      (3)   Electronic document in .pdf format - $2 each.
      (4)   CD/DVD containing GIS data - $5 per disc.
      (5)   GIS data on external hard drive as provided by customer - $30 each
hard drive.
   (B)   All funds collected shall be placed in a non- reverting fund set up by
the County Auditor to be reused for the purchase of GIS paper and copying
supplies.
(Ord. 2007-15, passed 8-21-07)
HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEES
§ 37.30  AUTHORITY; BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The county Board of Health is empowered to establish and collect fees in
accord with the following definitions and provisions.
(`88 Code, § 3-5)  (Ord. 85-10, passed 1-1-86)
§ 37.31  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.  An agent in principal of the Board and Health
Officer, as provided for in I.C. 16-20 et seq.
   BOARD.  The county Board of Health, as provided for in I.C. 16-20 et seq.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The county Health Officer, as provided for in I.C. 16-20 et
seq.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, co- partnership, firm, company,
corporation, or association.
(`88 Code, § 3-6)  (Ord. 85-10, passed 1-1-86)
§ 37.32  ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SERVICES.
   The Board of Health having jurisdiction may charge a service fee not in
excess of the cost for providing to any person the following services:
   (A)   For services provided in the inspection of public eating and drinking
establishments, retail food markets, itinerant food stands, and semi-public
food service establishments to obtain a permit for license for food markets and
eating and drinking establishments as required by County Ordinance Number 102-
103.
   (B)   For on-site wastewater disposal permit:
 
Septic - Residential - New         $60
Septic - Residential - Replacement $60
Septic - Commercial                $100
Tank only/line repair              $25
 
   (C)   Swimming pools:
 
Yearly permit               $50
Seasonal permit             $50
Processing fee for new pool $50
 
   (D)   For water samples:
Test Fee
Test                                                   Fee
Biological, total coliform, E-coli (residential water) $15
Chemical, nitrate, nitrite                             $18
Pools/whirlpools, (3 tests)                            $18
Lakes/streams/surface water (E-coli)                   $20
Lead                                                   $18
Iron                                                   $15
Phosphorus                                             $15
 
   (E)    For on-site wastewater disposal survey, prior to issuing of an on-
site wastewater permit  (examining test hole, topography, distance to
neighboring wells, and the like):  $10.
   (F)   For mortgage surveys, required to secure FHA/VA mortgage loans. 
Requires affidavits, hold harmless, and request for a walkover or full
inspection of existing system be signed by seller and buyer.  (Noting the
distance from house, well, neighboring wells, lot lines, bodies of water, and
the like):  $40.
(`88 Code, §3-7)  (Ord. 85-10, passed 1-1-86; Am. Ord. 90-7, passed 6-25-90;
Am. Ord. 94-21, passed 9-26-94; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-15-05)
§ 37.33  PERSONAL HEALTH SERVICES.
   (A)   International travel vaccines/immunization records.
 
MMR vaccine                                                         $55
TD vaccine                                                          $35
IPV vaccine                                                         $30
Seasonal flu vaccine                                                $10
Out-of-county resident international travel immunization per person $15
GARDASIL vaccine                                                    $130
 
   (B)   Immunizations. A maximum of $2 per child, or $3 per family per visit,
will be charged.  No child will be denied service for lack of ability to pay an
administration fee.
Yellow fever                                  $85
Typhoid                                       $55
Hep-A - pediatric                             $25
Hep-A - adult                                 $33
Hep-B-adult                                   $35
Twinrix (Hep A/B)                             $45
Menomune (menigococcal)                       $75
IPV (polio)                                   $1
TD (tetanus/diphtheria)                       $1
MMR                                           $1
Hep-B - pediatric                             $1
Varicella (chicken pox)                       $170
Zostavax (shingles)                           $95
TB testing (employment or school requirement) $5
 
   (C)   Blood profile.
 
County employee $40
General public  $45
 
   (D)   Diabetes screening fee:  $2.
   (E)   Mantoux (TB) screening test fee:  $1.
      (1)   However, if a patron fails to return for reading, then $5 will be
charged if that patron requests a second test.
      (2)   The $5 charge will also be applied if a parent fails to bring his
or her child for a reading as scheduled, but then re-schedules for a second TB
test.
   (F)   Fees for combined immunization and TB services:  $1.
   (G)   Blood pressure screening:  No charge.
   (H)   No one will be refused services because of the lack of ability to pay.
(`88 Code, § 3-7)  (Ord. 90-7, passed 6-25-90; Am. Ord. 94-21, passed 9-26-94;
Am. Ord. 1996-7, passed 4-29-96; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-15-05; Am. Ord.
2007-18, passed 10-16-07; Am. Ord. 2008-14, passed 8-5-08)
§ 37.34  VITAL RECORDS SERVICES.
   (A)   Birth certificates: 
 
Standard $7
Wallet   $10
 
   (B)   Death certificates:
 
Original $8
Copy     $6
 
   (C)   (1)   For genealogical research, the Health Department may conduct a
search of the birth or death records for a fee.  Five-year search:  $5.
      (2)   A certified copy of the search can be furnished on request.
(`88 Code, §3-7)
   (D)   Paternity or correction affidavit:  $25.
(Ord. 90-7, passed 6-25-90; Am. Ord. 2000-13, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 2005-02,
passed 2-15-05)
§ 37.35  FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSES.
   (A)   An annual license fee shall be levied upon each food establishment for
the purpose of enforcing and paying the expenses of the inspection program.
   (B)   Fees for retail food establishments shall be based on the determined
risk for that establishment, as follows.  The risk categories are defined in §
110.30, regarding inspections.
 
Risk Category Fee
A             $65
B             $100
C             $125
D             $180
 
   (C)   Fees for other types of retail food service operations will be
assessed as follows:
      (1)   Seasonal establishments: one-half the determined fee.
      (2)   Mobile establishments:  $125.
      (3)   Lunch service vehicle:  $50 per vehicle.
      (4)   Temporary operations:  $20 per day, not to exceed $80 for any one
event.
      (5)   Probationary fee: $75, for new businesses, new ownership, or
extensive remodeling.
Probationary fine: $75.
   (D)   Penalties shall be assessed on the following establishments, with
payment due upon annual permit renewal:
      (1)   Any establishment placed on probation for failure to meet minimum
sanitation requirements;
      (2)   Any establishment that requires an extension of probationary status
due to continued failure to meet minimum sanitation requirements;
      (3)   Any establishment that operates without a permit, or fails to apply
for a permit after 15 days of a change in ownership of an existing operation
with no service interruption;
      (4)   Any establishment that conducts extensive remodeling without
submitting plans to the Health Department prior to construction; and
      (5)   Any establishment that fails to remit payment for an annual license
by the due date, in which case the penalty shall be 50% of the permit fee for
each day payment is not received.
   (E)   Exceptions to application of the fees above are as follows.
      (1)   A retail food establishment commencing operations after June 30
shall be assessed one-half the fee for the respective category.
      (2)   No license fee shall be required for establishments operated by an
organization that is exempt from the state gross income tax under I.C. 6-2.1-3-
20 through 6-2.1-3-22 and that offers food for sale to the final consumer at an
event held for the benefit of the organization, provided:
         (a)   Members of the organization prepare the food that will be sold;
         (b)   Events conducted by the organization take place for no more than
30 days per calendar year; and
         (c)   The name of each person who has prepared a food item is attached
to the container in which the food item has been placed.
      (3)   Schools, churches and governmental units or agencies shall be
exempt from a license fee.
(`88 Code, § 3-9)  (2000-15, passed 8-8-00; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-15-05)
§ 37.36  FEE COLLECTION, ACCOUNTING, AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The Board of Health shall collect the fees established as a part of
this subchapter in accord with those set forth in §§ 37.34(A) and (B) and 37.35
herein.
   (B)   All fees collected by the Board shall be accounted for in detail for
each program service area.
   (C)   All fees collected by the Board shall be transferred to the county
Health Fund.  The monies collected in accord with the provisions of this
subchapter shall be used only for the maintenance or future expansion of the
specific program services from which they are derived.
   (D)   Fees collected for health services provided individuals in other
county health jurisdictions and involving payment from county tax revenue shall
be collected in accord with an agreement pursuant to I.C. 16-20-5-8, as
amended.
   (E)   Fees collected by the Board in providing a copy of a birth certificate
or death certificate are retained by the Health Officer as provided in I.C. 16-
20-5-8.
(`88 Code, § 3-8)  (Ord. 85-10, passed 11-12-85)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES AND FEES
§ 37.50  SCHEDULE OF FEES.
The County Board of Commissioners adopts the following Emergency Medical
Services fees. The fee schedule reflects the type of service recognized by
Medicare since approximately 70% of our patients fall into this billing
category.  In the future, there will be no cost difference between in-county
and out-of- county calls, the difference will now be made up in the
reimbursable mileage charge.
 
Type of Service                Current 7-1-05  1-1-06  1-1-07  1-1-08  1-1-09
                                       30%     10%     10%     10%     10%
BLS (Basic rate) - Non-        $180.00 $234.00 $257.00 $283.00 $311.00 $342.00
emergency
BLS (Basic+ emergency fee) -   262.00  341.00  375.00  413.00  454.00  499.00
Emergency
ALS (Basic + MIC charge - Non- 344.00  447.00  492.00  541.00  595.00  655.00
emergency
ALS I (Basic + MIC + emergency 451.00  586.00  645.00  710.00  781.00  859.00
+ 02) Non-emergency
ALS II (ALS I + 1 specified    - 0 -   662.00  728.00  801.00  881.00  969.00
procedure or 3 specified meds)
 
Type of Service Current 7-1-05 1-1-06 1-1-07 1-1-08 1-1-09
                        30%    10%    10%    10%    10%
Type of Service                Current 7-1-05 1-1-06 1-1-07 1-1-08 1-1-09
                                       30%    10%    10%    10%    10%
Other Charges
Mileage
   1st 50 miles             $7      $8.00  $8.00  $9.00  $9.00  $10.00
   51+ miles                - 0 -   10.00  10.00  11.25  11.25  12.50
Return trip                    98.00   127.00 140.00 154.00 169.00 186.00
Oxygen                         25.00   33.00  36.00  40.00  44.00  48.00
TNT                            75.00   99.00  109.00 119.00 130.00 143.00
Lift assist - after third trip 25.00   25.00  25.00  25.00  25.00  25.00
 
(Ord. 1996-12, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 2005-06, passed 4-3-05)
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM AND FEES
§ 37.60  MONTHLY SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   Per I.C. 36-8-16-1 et seq., a countywide monthly telephone service fee
shall be imposed on all county phone users to be used for the installation of
an enhanced emergency telephone system. 
(`88 Code, § 3-78)
   (B)   The fee shall be initially set at the maximum allowed per I.C. 36-8-
16-6(b)(1). 
(`88 Code, § 3-79)
   (C)   The County Commissioners increase the established enhanced emergency
telephone system fee to the rate of $.74 per month.  This fee is to be assessed
on each exchange access facility in the service area covered by the enhanced
emergency system. 
(`88 Code, § 3-78)
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-16-9, the fee established by this section shall
take effect on the first day of May, 1994. 
(`88 Code, § 3-79)  (Ord. 89-1, passed 4-17-89; Am. Ord. 94-7, passed 3-14-94)
§ 37.61  PRIMARY PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINT.
   The Enhanced Emergency Telephone System funded by the fee established under
this subchapter shall consist of one Primary Public Safety Answering Point to
be located at the Sheriff’s Department.
(`88 Code, § 3-101)  (Ord. 90-1, passed 11-26-90)
§ 37.62  SITE COMMITTEE.
   A site committee shall be appointed by the Council President to include the
Mayors of Michigan City and the City of LaPorte or their designees, a County
Commissioner, a County Council member, the Sheriff, the EMS Administrator, and
others he or she deems appropriate.
(`88 Code, § 3-80)  (Ord. 89-1, passed 4-17-89)
§ 37.63  STATE LAW CONTROLS.
   The provisions of I.C. 36-8-16-1 through 36-8-16-9 shall control the
operation of the enhanced emergency telephone system and the imposition and
collection of the system fee.
(`88 Code, § 3-79)  (Ord. 94-7, passed 3-14-94)
PERMIT FEES
§ 37.75  PARADES AND RALLIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to organize and participate in a parade or rally
on county roads or county property without first obtaining a permit from the
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The permit application shall specify the details of the parade or
rally and shall be submitted at least 30 days prior to the event.
(`88 Code, § 3-51) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 37.76  STREET CLOSINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to organize or participate in any block
party, neighborhood picnic, or similar event which necessitates the closing of
a street without first obtaining a permit from the Board of Commissioners. 
      (2)   This requirement applies to all persons and groups, including non-
profit organizations.
   (B)   The permit application shall specify the details of the requested
street closing and shall submit the application at least 30 days prior to the
event.
(`88 Code, § 3-52) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 37.77  HOUSE MOVING; PERMITS AND BONDING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to move a building or portions of a building,
other than mobile homes, on or across a county road without first obtaining a
permit from the County Highway Supervisor and a resolution from the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   The firm or person seeking permission to move a building or portion
thereof shall be required to post a bond with the county in the minimum amount
of $5,000 to cover any road damage.
   (C)   (1)   The County Highway Supervisor is authorized to establish
additional rules and regulations for the moving of buildings upon or across
county highways and file those rules and regulations with the Board for review
and approval. 
      (2)   Two copies of additional regulations shall be available for public
inspection during regular business hours, one in the County Auditor’s office
and one in the County Highway Supervisor’s office.
(`88 Code, § 3-53)  (Res. passed 6-17-68) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 37.78  UTILITY LINES.
   (A)   (1)   Each application for a permit for locating utility lines along a
county right-of-way shall be accompanied by a check in the amount of $40
payable to the County Treasurer.  This $40 is to cover the costs of the permit
and costs of inspecting the first quarter mile of line. 
      (2)   For each quarter mile of line beyond the first quarter mile, an
additional $25 must accompany the application.
   (B)   Each application for a change order must be accompanied by an
additional $40 inspection fee.
   (C)   Further pipe lines which do not generally follow a county road right-
of-way, but which cross a county right-of-way, must be inspected at the point
of crossing the right-of-way, and a $40 fee will be charged for each right-of-
way which is crossed. 
(`88 Code, § 3-54)  (Ord. 98-6, passed 4-21-98; Am. Ord. 98-9, passed 6-16-98)
§ 37.79  BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
   Fees for a building permit for new construction or remodeling shall be as
provided in §§ 151.26 and 151.27 of this code.
(Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 37.80  ROAD CUTS.
   (A)   An application for a permit to cut into a county highway shall be
completed and referred to the County Highway Department for review and
recommendation.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall act upon these applications and, if a
permit is granted, the applicant shall pay the fee of $40 in addition to all
other fees including, but not limited to, utility permit fees.
(`88 Code, § 3-56)  (Ord. 98-6, passed 4-21-98)
§ 37.81  DRIVEWAYS.
   A fee of $25 payable to the Building Commissioner shall be collected at the
time of filing an application for a driveway permit.
(`88 Code, § 3-57)  (Ord. 98-6, passed 4-21-98)
§ 37.82  CABLE AND PIPELINE PERMITS SUBJECT TO CANCELLATION.
   (A)   The county highway cable and pipeline permits shall be subject to
cancellation by the Board of Commissioners for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   For failing to abide by specifications of the first blueprint or
sketch accepted and approved by the county Inspector for County Commissioner
approval;
      (2)   For making specification changes not approved by the Inspector;
      (3)   For failing to notify the Inspector when construction starts on any
one permit;
      (4)   For failing to remove piles of dirt in a reasonable amount of time;
or
      (5)   For failing to provide flares and warning signs at all obstacles
and vehicles on the road beds.
   (B)   All cancellations must be renewed before new construction begins.
(`88 Code, § 3-58)  (Ord. passed 12-12-66)
§ 37.83  LANDFILL OPERATION.
   (A)   Applications for a permit to operate a landfill are available from the
county Health Department.
   (B)   Before final action will be taken on applications by the County Board
of Commissioners, the applicant must satisfy the pertinent requirements of:
      (1)   The state Environmental Management Act, I.C. 13-13-1-1 et seq., as
it may be amended from time to time; and
      (2)   The state Solid Waste Disposal Act, I.C. 36-9-30-1 et seq., as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Specific regulations addressing the public disposal of garbage and
rubbish are found in §§ 50.01 through 50.06 of this code.  Compliance with this
code is mandatory for a landfill operation permit.
(`88 Code, § 3-59)
§ 37.84  MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   The County Treasurer shall collect for all mobile home permits the sum
of $2.
   (B)   All funds received by the County Treasurer as a result of the above,
shall be deposited in the county General Fund.
(`88 Code, § 3-92)  (Ord. 93-5, passed 3-8-93)
JAIL INMATES; FEES
§ 37.95  HEALTH CO-PAYMENTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person confined to the County Jail, except as provided in division
(B) below and in §
37.96, shall be required to make a co-payment in an amount of $15 for each
provision of any of the following services:
      (1)   Dentist’s visit;
      (2)   Physician’s visit;
      (3)   Glasses;
      (4)   Ophthalmology/optometrist visit;
      (5)   Prescription handling fee; or
      (6)   Any other health care related service.
(`88 Code, § 3-95)
   (B)   Only the original filling of a specific prescription shall be charged
a co-payment for this medical service.  All refills ordered when the original
prescription was written shall constitute one service.
(`88 Code, § 3-97)  (Ord. 95-5, passed 2-14-95; Am. Ord. 2003-17, passed 11-3-
03)
§ 37.96  HEALTH CO-PAYMENT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Section
37.95(A) does not apply to a person confined in the County Jail who:
      (1)   Maintains a policy of insurance from a private company, and
provides complete and accurate information to allow the health care provider to
file a claim for services rendered, for insurance covering:
         (a)   Medical care;
         (b)   Dental care;
         (c)   Eye care; or
         (d)   Any other health care related service.
      (2)   Is willing to pay for that person’s own medical care;
      (3)   Is committed to the state Department of Correction; or
      (4)   Is housed at the County Jail pursuant to a contract entered into
with the U.S. Marshals’ Service.
   (B)   A person confined at the County Jail is not required to make the co-
payment if:
      (1)   The inmate does not have funds in the inmate’s commissary account
or trust account at the time the service is provided and the inmate does not
have funds in the inmate’s commissary or trust account within 30 days after the
medical service is provided;
      (2)   The service is provided in an emergency;
      (3)   The service is provided as a result of an injury received at the
County Jail; or
      (4)   The service is provided at the request of the Sheriff.
(`88 Code, § 3-96)  (Ord. 95-5, passed 2-14-95)
§ 37.97  CO-PAYMENT PROCEDURES AND DEPOSITORY.
   (A)   If the original call for medical services is initiated by the Sheriff,
follow-up care for the same illness or injury will not require a co-payment if
follow-up service is rendered within 30 days of the original medical service.
   (B)   Inmates at the County Jail will never be refused medical treatment
because of an inability to pay.  Should an inmate have a zero balance in the
inmate’s trust or commissary account, the transactions shall be carried on the
books for a 30-day period.  Should the inmate receive money within the 30-day
period, the co-payment will be deducted from the inmate’s account.  If the
inmate receives no funds at the end of 30 days an adjustment entry shall be
made to negate the medical billing transaction.  Within the 30-day period, if
the inmate receives monies the outstanding co-payments shall be deducted prior
to a commissary order being processed.  Co-payments for medical services shall
be deducted prior to any monies being released to the inmate for bonding or any
other purposes.
   (C)   Monies collected shall be deposited into the county General Fund.
(`88 Code, § 3-98)  (Ord. 95-5, passed 2-14-95)
§ 37.98  INMATE PROCESSING FEE.
   The County Sheriff shall assess a $25 processing fee each time a person is
booked into the County Jail.
(Ord. 2001-20, passed 10-23-01)
§ 37.99  FEE COLLECTION AND DEPOSITORY.
   (A)   (1)   The processing fee shall be collected before the inmate is
released from jail or the fee shall be deducted from the inmate’s commissary
fund or from any cash bond that has been posted.
      (2)   In situations in which the person may be indigent, the Sheriff
shall have the authority to waive this fee.
   (B)   Once collected, $15 from the fee shall be deposited in the jail
medical fund, and the remaining $10 shall be placed in the County Sheriff’s
commissary fund.
   (C)   Strict accountability of these funds regarding collection and receipt
shall be the sole responsibility of the County Sheriff’s Office, and reports
shall be made to the County Auditor’s Office and the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2001-20, passed 10-23-01)
SEX OR VIOLENT OFFENDER FEES
§ 37.100  SEX OR VIOLENT OFFENDER REGISTRATION FEES AND ADDRESS CHANGE FEES.
   (A)   The LaPorte County Sheriff’s Department is hereby authorized to charge
the sum of $50 per year for the registration of sex or violent offenders and $5
for each time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the
LaPorte County Sheriff’s Department; and
   (B)   LaPorte County, Indiana, now establishes a county sex offender
administration fund and all funds collected for sex or violent offender
registration fees and address change fees for sex or violent offenders shall be
deposited into this fund.  The County Auditor shall monthly deposit 90% of any
such fees collected into the fund and transfer 10% of any such fees collected
to the Treasurer of the State of Indiana for deposit in the state sex and
violent offender administration fund under I.C. 11-8-8-21.
   (C)   The County Council may appropriate money from the county sex and
violent offender administration fund to defray the expense of administering or
ensuring compliance with the laws concerning the Indiana sex and violent
offender registry.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-17-09)
CHAPTER 38:  ETHICS POLICY
Section
   
38.01   Adoption of state law
§ 38.01  ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The state laws governing nepotism (I.C. 36-1-20.2) and contracting with a
unit/conflict of interest (I.C. 36-1-21), as the same may be amended from time
to time, are hereby adopted by the county.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 1-2-13)
CHAPTER 39:  DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Purpose
   
39.02   Definitions
   
39.03   General scope and intent: liberal construction of powers
   
39.04   Limitations: non-supersession of emergency powers of County Sheriff
   
39.05   Limitations: non-supersession of emergency management powers of
political subdivisions; conformance of political subdivision emergency
management rules and regulations with county's emergency management program and
emergency plan
County Emergency Management Advisory Council; County Emergency Management
Director; Organization and Administration of Department of Emergency Management
   
39.15   County Emergency Management Advisory Council: establishment
   
39.16   County Emergency Management Advisory Council: officers
   
39.17   County Emergency Management Advisory Council: power and duties
   
39.18   Director of Emergency Management: general powers and duties
   
39.19   Department of Emergency Management: establishment; staffing; oath; and
prohibition of political activity
   
39.20   Department of Emergency Management: duties
   
39.21   Department of Emergency Management: budget and finance
   
39.22   Comprehensive emergency management plan: formulation; content and
adoption
   
39.23   Jurisdiction: Department of Emergency Management; county Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan; and political subdivisions
   
39.24   Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; other emergency
tests
   
39.25   County Board of Commissioners: general administrative powers and duties
County Emergency Management Program: Emergency Powers, Regulations and
Procedures
   
39.35   Applicability of subchapter
   
39.36   Special emergency powers and duties of principal executive officer:
declaration of local disaster emergency
   
39.37   County Board of Commissioners; convention of special emergency meeting
   
39.38   Principal Executive Officer: special emergency powers and duties
   
39.39   County Board of Commissioners: special emergency powers and duties
   
39.40   Officers and employees of incorporated and unincorporated areas of the
county: general duties during emergency
   
39.41   Noncompliance with emergency orders, rules and regulations: obstruction
or impersonation of emergency management authorities; penalties and enforcement
   
39.42   Limitation of liability during disaster emergency or emergency
management tests
   
39.43   Compensation for property commandeered or used during disaster
emergency
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish in LaPorte County a Department
of Emergency Management and to provide for the exercise of necessary powers
during disaster emergencies.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.02  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter hereinafter the following words and terms have the
meanings indicated.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL. The LaPorte County Emergency Management Advisory Council
as established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-10.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners, as elected pursuant to I.C. 36-2-
2.
   CHAIRMAN. The Chairman of the LaPorte County Emergency Management Advisory
Council as established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-10.
   COUNTY. LaPorte County.
   DIRECTOR. The County Director of Emergency Management (formally referred to
as Director) as established and appointed pursuant to this chapter in
accordance with I.C. 10-4-1-10.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Emergency Management as established under this
chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-10.
   DISASTER. Occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or manmade
cause, including but not limited to fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, wave
action, oil spill, other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, air contamination, drought, explosion, riot, or hostile
military or paramilitary action.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the coordination of all
emergency  functions, other than functions for which military forces or other
federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair
injury and damage resulting from disasters. These functions include, without
limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, radiological,
chemical and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken
areas, emergency welfare services, emergency transportation, plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services, and other junctions related
to  civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or
incidental to the preparation for and coordination of the foregoing junctions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management, being first duly rostered,
identified and appointed by the Director, including persons and private
agencies or governmental units offering services to the county during emergency
situations or mutual aid to other emergency services who request assistance.
   IDHS. The State Emergency Management Agency established under I.C. 10-8-2-1.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated in the emergency
operations plan to participate in emergency management activities, and,
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a municipal
corporation, or a volunteer organization designated to participate in the
county's emergency management programs and activities pursuant to a cooperative
or mutual aid agreement entered into pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-10.
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN OR EMERGENCY PLAN. The current local Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan whose preparation and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-4-1-10J.
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER of the county as referred to in I.C. 10-4-1-23
(a) for purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred to
hereinafter, means the County Board of Commissioners established under I.C. 36-
2-2. If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the three
Commissioners) is unavailable or is incapacitated, then the following
establishes the line of succession for Principal Executive Officer:
      (1)   Regularly designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners. If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the
three Commissioners as established under I.C. 36-2-4-3) is unavailable or is
incapacitated, then the regularly designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners shall serve as the Principal Executive Officer for the purposes
of this chapter until such time that a quorum of the County Board of
Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (2)   President Pro-Tem of the Board of County Commissioners. If both a
quorum of the County Board of Commissioners and the regularly designated
President of the County Board of Commissioners are unavailable or are
incapacitated, then the President Pro-Tem of the County Board of Commissioners
shall serve as the Principal Executive Officer for the purposes of this chapter
until such time that either the regularly designated President or a quorum of
the County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (3)   Remaining Commissioner of the Board of County Commissioners. If a
quorum of the Board of County Commissioners, the regularly designated President
of the Board of County Commissioners, and the President Pro-Tem of the County
Board of Commissioners are all unavailable or are incapacitated, then the
remaining Commissioner of the County Board of Commissioners shall serve as the
Principal Executive Officer for the purposes of this chapter until such time
that the President Pro-Tem, the regularly designated President, or a quorum of
the County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (4)   County Auditor. If all of the County Commissioners are unavailable
or incapacitated, then the County Auditor shall serve as the Principal
Executive Officer for the purposes of this chapter until such time that a
County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (5)   County Clerk. If all of the County Commissioners and the County
Auditor are unavailable or incapacitated, then the County Clerk shall serve as
the Principal Executive Officer for the purposes of this chapter until such
time that the County Clerk or a County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated.
      (6)   County Recorder. If all of the County Commissioners, the County
Auditor, and the County Clerk are unavailable or incapacitated, then the County
Recorder shall serve as the Principal Executive Officer for the purposes of
this chapter until such time that the County Auditor, the County Clerk or a
County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (7)   Director of Emergency Management. If all of the County
Commissioners, the County Auditor, the County Clerk and the County Recorder are
unavailable or incapacitated, then the Director of Emergency Management shall
serve as the Principal Executive Officer for the purposes of this chapter until
such time that the Counter Recorder, the County Auditor, the County Clerk or a
County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.03  GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
indispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate, prepare for,
respond to and recover from emergency conditions. To this end, all powers, both
ministerial and discretionary, as conferred herein shall be liberally construed
to supplement and augment, not to limit, any other powers or reasonable
exercise of discretion which may ordinarily pertain to county officers,
employees, departments, and agencies.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.04  LIMITATIONS: NON-SUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF COUNTY SHERIFF.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit any statutory
powers of the County Sheriff.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.05  LIMITATIONS: NON-SUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT POWERS OF
POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS; CONFORMANCE OF POLITICAL SUBDIVISION EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS WITH COUNTY'S EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM AND
EMERGENCY PLAN.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit the powers
granted under I.C. 10-4-1-10 to any political subdivision to adopt and
implement emergency plans and promulgate and enforce emergency management rules
and regulations in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such political
subdivision. However, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-15, such regulations and
procedures as promulgated by the political subdivision may not be inconsistent
with the county emergency management program and emergency plan established in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL; COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
DIRECTOR; ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 39.15  COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL: ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with I.C. 10-4-1-10(d), there is established the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council which shall consist of the following
individuals or their designees.
   (A)   The president of the County executive.
   (B)   The president of the County fiscal body.
   (C)   The mayor of each city located in the county.
   (D)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns located
within the county.
   (E)   Representatives of such private and public agencies or organizations
which can be of assistance to emergency management as the organizing group
considers appropriate, or as may be added later by the County Emergency
Management Advisory Council.
   (F)   One commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county or the
commander's designee.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.16  COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL: OFFICERS.
   The Advisory Council shall have a Chairman, a Vice-Chairman, and a Recording
Secretary. The Advisory Council shall elect these officers for one year terms.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.17  COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL: POWER AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the emergency management program of the county.
   (B)   The Advisory Council shall select, or cause to be selected, with the
approval of the County Executive, a County Emergency Management Director. This
appointment shall be permanent unless it is terminated in accordance with
division (C) of this section. With the Commissioners having the final approval.
   (C)   The Advisory Council shall have the power to terminate, with the
approval of the County Executive, the County Emergency Management Director, if
the Advisory Council determines that the Director:
      (1)   Is incapable of fulfilling his/her duties;
      (2)   Has failed to perform his/her duties;
      (3)   Not able to hold any other local or state elective office,
appointive position, or any other position that is created by statute.
   (D)   The Advisory Council shall consult with the Executive Director of IDHS
to obtain his/her opinion regarding the abilities and competence of the County
Emergency Management Director prior to the appointment or termination of the
Director. The IDHS Executive Director's opinion hereunder shall be advisory
only.
   (E)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once every six months; the
frequency, time and location being determined by the Advisory Council.
   (F)   The Advisory Council is a governing body of a public agency, as
defined under I.C. 5-14-1.5-2, and as such is subject to all of the
requirements of the Indiana Open Door Law (I.C. 5-14-1.5, et seq.). In
addition, any records generated, received, retained, maintained, used, or filed
by the Advisory Council are public records subject to the Indiana Access to
Public Records Act (I.C. 5-14-3, et seq.). Also, these public records are
subject to the retention schedule adopted by the County Commission of Public
Records in accordance with I.C. 5-15-6, et seq.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.18  DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory Council,
shall be executive head of the Department and shall have responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of the emergency management
organization, including the following specific powers and duties:
   (A)   Keep the Advisory Council fully informed on emergency management
activities.
   (B)   Keep the County Commissioners fully informed on emergency management
activities.
   (C)   Submit to the Advisory Council and the County Commissioners a yearly
report on the county's comprehensive emergency management, including
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery taken, in the previous year and
planned and recommended for the year to come.
   (D)   Assure that all of the duties and responsibilities of the Emergency
Management Agency are completed.
   (E)   Assure that all county employees and rostered volunteers with
responsibilities as part of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan receive
training in the functions that they are to perform under the Plan.
   (F)   Design and conduct exercises of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan, as required by the State Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Assure that the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan addresses all
hazards and includes all cities, towns and other population centers within the
county.
   (H)   Submit to State Emergency Management Agency the assessment specified
in IDHS's required format and within IDHS's required time frame for submission.
   (I)   Provide to the State Emergency Management Agency Director annual
reports and documentation as mandated.
   (J)   Competently manage the Department's various functions, including among
others financial, personnel, and logistic.
   (K)   Timely respond to the Chairman of the Advisory Council, as mandated by
I.C. 10-4-1-10 (f).
   (L)   Timely obey to the directives of superior state authorities.
   (M)   Assure that the activities of the Department at all times comport with
I.C. 10-4-1 and other applicable statutes, rules and county ordinances.
   (N)   Develop an emergency operating center ("EOC") as a site from which key
officials can direct and control operations during a disaster or emergency.
   (O)   Attend, and attain passing grades in, the Emergency Management
Professional Development Series for emergency management presented by the
Public Safety Training Institute within four years of first assuming the
position of Director.
   (P)   Attend, and attain passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by IDHS in subsequent years.
   (Q)   Assure the Deputy Director's attendance at, and passing grades in, the
Emergency Management Professional Development Series for emergency management
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute within four years of first
assuming the position of Deputy Director.
   (R)   Assure the Deputy Director's and all paid emergency management staffs
attendance at, and passing grades in, such emergency management training as may
be required by IDHS in subsequent years.
   (S)   Assure ongoing attendance by the Director, the Deputy Director and all
paid emergency management staff at further emergency management courses
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute to assure continued knowledge
of the latest information on emergency management.
   (T)   Assume responsibility for public relations, information and education
regarding all phases of emergency management.
   (U)   Assure coordination within the county of all activities for emergency
management.
   (V)   Maintain liaison and coordinate with all other affected agencies,
public and private.
   (W)   Coordinate the recruitment and training for volunteer personnel and
agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the county for emergency
management purposes.
   (X)   Seek, negotiate and enter into (with the approval or ratification of
the County Commissioners and consistent with the State Emergency Operations
Plan and program) mutual aid arrangements with other public and private
agencies for emergency management purposes, and taking all steps in accordance
with such arrangements to comply with or take advantage thereof in the event of
an actual emergency affecting the parties;
   (Y)   Accept any offer of the federal government to provide for the use of
the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds for emergency
management purposes by way of gift, grant or loan, when the governor has
approved such offer.
   (Z)   Seek and accept from any person, firm or corporation, any gratuitous
offers to provide services, equipment, supplies, materials, funds, or licenses
or privileges to use real estate or other premises, to the county for emergency
management purposes.
   (AA)   Issue proper insignia and papers to emergency management workers and
other people directly concerned with emergency management.
   (BB)   Assure that all volunteers meet the criteria set forth below in §
39.19(B)(3) prior to accepting them as members of the Department.
   (CC)   Make rapid and accurate assessment of:
      (1)   Property damage;
      (2)   Personal injuries;
      (3)   Fatalities;
      (4)   Basic needs; and
      (5)   Special needs as soon as an emergency or disaster declaration has
been made.
   (DD)   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided above, the
Director shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local emergency
management director as provided under I.C. 10-4-1. In particular, but not by
limitation, the Director, through the Department, may perform or cause to be
performed with respect to the county, any function parallel or analogous to
those performed on a statewide basis by IDHS under I.C. 10-4-1.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.19  DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: ESTABLISHMENT; STAFFING; OATH; AND
PROHIBITION OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose of
utilizing to the fullest extent possible the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any disaster
as defined in this chapter. The Director of Emergency Management shall be
responsible for its organization, administration and operation.
   (B)   The Department shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An executive head of the Department of Emergency Management, who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management, appointed in accordance
with §
39.17;
      (2)   A Deputy Director appointed by the Director with the approval of
the Advisory Council. The Deputy Director shall fulfill the duties of the
Director in the absence or incapacity of the Director to serve; and assist the
Director in the performance of Director's duties.
      (3)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and appointed
by the Director. In addition to the other requirements in this section, the
Director shall ensure that all volunteer personnel meet the following
qualifications before being placed on the roster as a member of the Department:
         (a)   Be at least 18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Not be convicted of a felony; and
         (c)   Have completed and have on file with the Department an
application form.
      (4)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all county departments
and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to emergency management and designated
by the Plan to participate in emergency management activity;
      (5)   Staff officers with responsibility for communications and warning,
radiological, health and medical care, law enforcement, fire and search and
rescue, public works and public information in accordance with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (6)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees as deemed
necessary and appointed by the Director in accordance with the Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-4-l-20(a), no person shall be employed or
associated in any capacity in any emergency management organization established
under this chapter who:
      (1)   Advocates a change by force or violence in the constitutional form
of the government of the United States or the overthrow of any government in
the United States by force or violence; or
      (2)   Has been convicted of or is under indictment or information
charging any subversive act against the United States.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-20(b), each individual who is appointed to
serve in an organization for emergency management shall, before entering upon
the individual's duties, take an oath, in writing, before a person authorized
to administer oaths in this state.
      (1)   The oath shall be substantially as follows:
   "I,                                  , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I
will support and defend the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Indiana against all enemies, foreign and domestic;
that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this
obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and
that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to
enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a
member of any political party or organization that advocates, the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am a member of the County Department of Emergency
Management I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by force or violence."
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the Executive Director of IDHS
and the Director shall be authorized to administer the oath provided in
division (D)(1) of this section to emergency management and disaster personnel;
and may delegate that authority to designated deputies and assistants as may be
approved by the Executive Director of IDHS.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-9, the Department and its employees are
prohibited from participating in political activity as follows:
      (1)   The Department shall not participate in any form of political
activity nor shall it be employed for political purposes.
      (2)   Political considerations shall not be a consideration for
appointment to the Department nor a cause for dismissal except as provided in
division (C) and (D) of this section.
      (3)   Full-time employees of the Department shall not participate in
political activities.
   (F)   It is the intent of this division that emergency management and
disaster assignments under the Plan shall be as consistent with normal duty
assignments as possible.
   (G)   The County Council shall not have any power of approval over
particular candidates for any position, but the County Council shall have
general statutory powers to determine the numbers of officers, deputies, and
employees of county departments, classify positions, and adopt schedules of
compensation pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3(a). Notwithstanding any other provision
of this chapter, with the exception of the Director, a compensated position may
not be established within the Department of Emergency Management nor shall any
person be appointed to such position without authorization and sufficient
funding from the County Council.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.20  DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: DUTIES.
   The Department, subject to the direction and control of the Director, shall
prepare and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, including
the following specific duties:
   (A)   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in written form a
clear and complete statement of the emergency responsibilities of all local
agencies and officials and of the disaster chain of command in accordance with
I.C. 10-4-1-10(j).
   (B)   Work closely with officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county to develop a hazard mitigation program to
eliminate or reduce potential hazards.
   (C)   Write and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, which
shall conform to the guidelines contained in the most current state and federal
guidance documents (the county cannot receive state and/or federal matching
funds unless this is done), and the requirements established under §
39.22. As part of the preparation of this Plan, the Department shall:
      (1)   Identify and analyze the effects of hazards that threaten the
county.
      (2)   Inventory manpower and material resources from governmental and
private sector sources that would be available in a disaster or emergency.
      (3)   Establish a system to alert key officials in event of a disaster or
emergency.
      (4)   Identify resource deficiencies and work with appropriate officials
on measures to correct them.
      (5)   Develop and maintain an emergency communications system, thus
assuring proper functioning of emergency communications throughout the county,
including all cities and towns.
      (6)   Take all actions necessary to ensure the continuity of government
procedures and systems in the event of a disaster.
      (7)   Establish and maintain a shelter and reception and care system for
both people and animals.
      (8)   Develop a training program for emergency response personnel
ensuring that mitigation, training and exercising have been performed for all
such personnel.
      (9)   Coordinate with industry to develop and maintain industrial
emergency plans and capabilities in support of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan.
   (D)   Update the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan as needed to keep
it current, as required by I.C. 10-4-1-10(j).
   (E)   Develop a program to test and exercise the Emergency Plan.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.21  DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: BUDGET AND FINANCE.
   (A)   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation of
the budget.
   (B)   The County Council shall appropriate such funds, as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management.
   (C)   All funds appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of
Emergency Management shall be administered by the Director.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.22  COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN: FORMULATION; CONTENT AND
ADOPTION.
   (A)   A County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, referred to as the
interjurisdictional disaster emergency plan by I.C. 10-4-1-100, shall be
adopted by resolution of the County Board of Commissioners. In the preparation
of this Plan, as it pertains to county organization, it is the intent that the
services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all existing departments and
agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent possible.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall include, at minimum,
the following:
      (1)   An administrative section which includes
         (a)   Authorities and directives.
         (b)   Terms and definitions.
         (c)    Acronyms/abbreviations.
         (d)   Financial management.
      (2)   A hazards specific section which includes:
         (a)   Unique hazards.
         (b)   Special events.
      (3)   An operations section which includes:
         (a)   Coordination and control emergency support function.
         (b)   Communications and warning emergency support function.
         (c)   Public information emergency support function.
         (d)   Resource management emergency support function.
         (e)   Information and planning emergency support function.
      (4)   An emergency services section which includes:
         (a)   Military emergency support function.
         (b)   Law enforcement emergency support function.
         (c)   Firefighting emergency support function.
         (d)   Transportation emergency support function.
         (e)   Health and medical emergency support function.
         (f)   Search and rescue emergency support function.
         (g)   Public works/engineering emergency support function.
      (5)   A consequent effects section which includes:
         (a)   Evacuation emergency support function.
         (b)   Shelter/mass care emergency support function.
         (c)   Damage assessment emergency support function.
         (d)   Hazardous materials emergency support function.
         (e)   Radiological protection emergency support function.
         (f)   Energy emergency support function.
   (C)   In addition, all emergency services within the county shall:
      (1)   Develop standard operating procedures, standard operating guides
and checklists that are drafted subject to the requirements of the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (2)   Coordinate standard operating procedures, standard operating guides
and checklists with the Department of Emergency Management;
      (3)   Assure inclusion of the standard operating procedures, standard
operating guides and checklists within the county Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan;
      (4)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (5)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.23  JURISDICTION: DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN; AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided by §§
39.04 and
39.05, the jurisdiction of the County Department of Emergency Management shall
be comprehensive and inclusive countywide and effective in both the
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   The jurisdiction and applicability of the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan, as adopted pursuant to §
39.22, and the exercise of any powers of the Principal Executive Officer of the
county and of the County Board of Commissioners under §§
39.35 through
39.43, shall be comprehensive and inclusive countywide and effective in both
the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (C)   All political subdivisions in the county shall:
      (1)   If they develop a plan for their political subdivision:
         (a)   Ensure that the plan is consistent with the requirements of the
County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
         (b)   Coordinate the development of the plan with the Department of
Emergency Management; and
         (c)   Ensure inclusion of the plan within the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan.
      (2)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
      (3)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.24  TESTS OF THE COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN; OTHER EMERGENCY
TESTS.
   (A)   Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan may be conducted
at any time with or without prior notification to persons other than the
Director.
   (B)   All emergency tests conducted within the boundaries of the county
shall be coordinated with the Department.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.25  COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS AND
DUTIES.
   In time of normal county operations, powers and duties of the County
Commissioners pertaining to emergency management shall be:
   (A)   Maintaining general supervision over the planning and administration
for the Department;
   (B)   Adopting the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (C)   Coordinating emergency management activities consistent with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (D)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
activities consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (E)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management duties
in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties and powers of such
agencies consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (F)   Taking all necessary action in coordination with the Department to
conduct tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
   (G)   Educating themselves as to their responsibilities under the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM: EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS, AND
PROCEDURES
§ 39.35  APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall apply whenever:
   (A)   The Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-7, has declared a disaster
emergency affecting all or part of the county.
   (B)   The Principal Executive Officer of the county, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-
1-23(a) and §
39.37, is preparing to, or has declared a local disaster emergency affecting
all or part of the county.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the
County's Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and procedures in accordance
with and to the extent necessary or dispensable to such test.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.36  SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   In the event of an actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting
the county, if feasible, the Principal Executive Officer of the county shall
seek the advice and input of the Director as to the advisability of declaring a
local disaster emergency.
   (B)   If the County Board of Commissioners, acting as the Principal
Executive Officer of the county, is the entity declaring the local disaster
emergency, then the statutory requirements contained in I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C.
5-14-1.5-5(d) regarding special and emergency meetings of the County Board of
Commissioner must be met.
   (C)   The Principal Executive Officer of the county may, in the event of an
actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting the county declare a local
disaster emergency, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-2-3(a). This declaration shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   State the nature of the disaster.
      (3)   State the conditions that have brought the disaster about.
      (4)   State the area or areas threatened.
      (5)   State the area or areas to which the local disaster emergency
declaration applies (this may include the entire county or only designated
parts thereof).
      (6)   State the effective period of the local disaster emergency
declaration. The disaster declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a
period in excess of seven days except by or with the consent of the County
Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The declaration of a local disaster emergency, as well as any
continuation or termination of such declaration shall be:
      (1)   Announced or disseminated to the general public by the best means
available.
      (2)   Filed promptly in the offices of the County Clerk; the County
Auditor, and the clerk of any incorporated municipality located in the declared
disaster area.
   (E)   The declaration shall not be invalidated or ineffective if any of the
filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the
prevailing adverse circumstances.
   (F)   Upon a declaration, the County's Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan or such component parts thereof as may be relevant to the emergency shall
be activated and implemented.
   (G)   Declaration of a local disaster emergency is not necessary if the
Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-7, has already proclaimed a statewide or
area-wide disaster emergency that includes the county.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.37  COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; CONVENTION OF SPECIAL EMERGENCY
MEETING.
   (A)   As allowed by I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), a special meeting
of the County Board of Commissioners shall be called as soon as possible after
the disaster emergency that affects the county has been declared, either by the
Governor or by the Principal Executive Officer of the county, to perform their
legislative and administrative functions as the situation may demand.
   (B)   As required by I.C. 36-2-2-8(b) and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), the following
conditions must be met for this meeting:
      (1)   The notice for the meeting must include a specific statement of the
purpose of the meeting.
      (2)   News media that have requested notice of meetings must be given the
same notice as is given the members of the County Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   The public must be notified of this meeting by posting a copy of
the notice at the principal office of the County Board of Commissioners, or if
no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to be held.
      (4)   The County Board of Commissioners may not conduct any business at
this meeting that is unrelated to the disaster emergency declaration.
      (5)   All other such requirements that are applicable to a meeting that
is called to deal with an emergency.
   (C)   In addition, such a meeting may:
      (1)   Be held in any convenient and available place.
      (2)   Continue without adjournment for the duration of the disaster
emergency.
      (3)   Be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by the circumstances.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.38  PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER: SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   In the event that a disaster emergency has been declared that affects
all or part of the county, and a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners
cannot be assembled for purposes of the meeting needed under §
39.37, the Principal Executive Officer of the county shall have, on an interim
basis, all powers of the County Board of Commissioners and may take all such
actions with respect to the disaster emergency declaration that the County
Board of Commissioners would have been authorized to take.
   (B)   When a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is assembled, these
interim powers of the Principal Executive Officer of the county shall cease.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.39  COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   At the meeting convened under §
39.37, the County Board of Commissioners may exercise any of their normal
executive and legislative powers to the extent related to the emergency and
necessary to deal therewith.
   (B)   In addition to the powers enumerated in division (A) of this section,
the Board may also exercise any of the following special and extraordinary
powers:
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners may extend the period of a local
disaster emergency declared by the Principal Executive Officer of the county,
pursuant to §
39.36, to last more than seven days if necessary.
      (2)   The County Board of Commissioners may terminate the local disaster
emergency.
      (3)   The County Board of Commissioners may assemble and utilize
emergency management resources, including:
         (a)   Personnel of the Department of Emergency Management;
         (b)   Participating emergency services; and
         (c)   Any other resources at the disposal of the Commissioners
hereunder for emergency management purposes.
      (4)   The County Board of Commissioners may order volunteer forces which
have been activated pursuant to the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan to
the aid of the county, state or political subdivisions thereof as soon as
practicable. These volunteer forces shall be under the direction of the
Department of Emergency Management.
      (5)   In order to control the local disaster emergency and provide for
public health, safety and welfare, the County Board of Commissioners may, to
the extent permitted by I.C. 10-4-1-25 and subject to its provisions, command
services and/or requisition the use of:
         (a)   Equipment;
         (b)   Facilities;
         (c)   Supplies; or
         (d)   Other property.
      (6)   The County Board of Commissioners may order the evacuation of all
or part of the population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribe:
         (a)   Routes;
         (b)   Modes of transportation; and
         (c)   Evacuation destinations.
      (7)   The County Board of Commissioners may make provision for
availability and use of temporary emergency housing, which housing need not
necessarily comply with any minimum housing standards, building or zoning
regulations, etc., which would govern the use and location of premises for
housing purposes during normal times.
      (8)   Except in accordance with division (B)(9) of this section the
County Board of Commissioners shall not suspend any provisions of ordinances or
procedures, which are mandated by statute.
      (9)   In the event of a disaster emergency that has been declared by the
Governor, the County Board of Commissioners, in accordance with I.C. 10-4-1-10
(1)(5), may waive any procedures or requirements of statute, or of county
ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and mandates, pertaining to:
         (a)   The performance of public works.
         (b)   The entering into contracts.
         (c)   The incurring of obligations.
         (d)   The employment of permanent and temporary workers.
         (e)   The utilization of volunteer workers.
         (f)   The rental of equipment.
         (g)   The purchase and distribution of supplies, materials and
facilities.
         (h)   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
      (10)   The County Board of Commissioners may assign any special emergency
duties and functions to county:
         (a)   Offices;
         (b)   Departments; and
         (c)   Agencies.
      (11)   Any unexpended and unencumbered monies budgeted and appropriated
but not otherwise dedicated by law to different purposes may, within the scope
of each major budget and appropriation category (major object classification),
be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying out such special emergency
duties and functions.
      (12)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-15, the County Board of Commissioners may
make, amend, and rescind such orders, rules, and regulations as may be
necessary for emergency management purposes and to supplement the carrying out
of the provisions of this chapter. Such orders, rules, and regulations:
         (a)   Cannot be inconsistent with any orders, rules, or regulations
promulgated by the Governor or by any state agency exercising a power delegated
to it by the Governor;
         (b)   Cannot be inconsistent with the county's emergency management
program or Emergency Plan;
         (c)   Shall have full force and effect of law when filed in the office
of the County Clerk;
         (d)   Are enforceable by any local or state law enforcing authority in
accordance with I.C. 10-4-1-17.
      (13)   The County Board of Commissioners may, in accordance with the
Plan, request the state or the United States or their agencies and political
subdivisions to send aid (including financial assistance) if the situation is
beyond the control of the regular and emergency county forces and resources.
   (C)   All actions taken by the County Board of Commissioners under this
section shall be:
      (1)   Adopted by ordinance or resolution pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-15;
      (2)   Consistent with, and subordinate to, any actions, orders, or
regulations made by the Governor or a state agency implementing the State
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.40  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF INCORPORATED AND UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF THE
COUNTY: GENERAL DUTIES DURING EMERGENCY.
   During a declared disaster emergency, all officers and employees of
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with and give active support to the County Board of
Commissioners and the County Emergency Management Director.
   (B)   Comply with all orders, rules and regulations issued pursuant to this
chapter by the County Board of Commissioners or the County Emergency Management
Director.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.41  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
OBSTRUCTION OR IMPERSONATION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES; PENALTIES AND
ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter applies it shall be unlawful and a penal
ordinance violation for any person to:
      (1)   Witfully obstruct, hinder or delay the County Board of
Commissioners, the Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency
services, authorized emergency management volunteers or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out and enforcing the Emergency Plan;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by, and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations and procedures as made applicable to such person by
the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management or to otherwise falsely identify or purport
to be a county emergency management authority.
   (B)   Any person who commits an offense as described above shall be liable
to a fine of $2,500; such fine to be subject, however, to the discretion of the
court of jurisdiction,
   (C)   Any regular or reserve police officer of Indiana or any of its
political subdivisions is hereby empowered to issue and serve a civil citation
against any person found to be committing an offense described above.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.42  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY DURING DISASTER EMERGENCY OR EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT TESTS.
   During an emergency management test or declared disaster emergency, the
county, the county's assigned personnel, participating emergency services, and
rostered emergency management volunteers shall be immune from liability to the
full extent provided by I.C. 10-4-1 and any other applicable law.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
§ 39.43  COMPENSATION FOR PROPERTY COMMANDEERED OR USED DURING DISASTER
EMERGENCY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-25, compensation for property shall be paid only if
the property was commandeered or otherwise used in coping with a disaster
emergency and its use or destruction was ordered by the Governor or a member of
the disaster emergency forces of the state. Any person claiming compensation
for the use, damage, loss, or destruction of such property shall make a claim
for it. This claim shall be filed and adjudicated as provided in I.C. 1971, 32-
11.
(Ord. 2013-02A, passed 5-15-13)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GARBAGE; SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
   
51.   SEWERS
   
52.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
   
53.   WATER WELL AND WATER QUALITY
   
54.   PROPERTY TRANSFER
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE; SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
Disposal Regulations
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Permits
   
50.03   Inspection of public disposal sites and operations
   
50.04   Sanitary requirements
   
50.05   Service charge; hours of operation
   
50.06   Enforcement
Solid Waste Management District
   
50.20   Designation
   
50.21   Solid Waste Management District Board established
   
50.22   Board composition
   
50.23   Board members; term of office
   
50.24   Board organization
   
50.25   Advisory Committee established
   
50.26   Board duties
   
50.27   Board powers
Ziegler Road Waste Area
   
50.35   Regulations
   
50.36   Violations; enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Citizens Solid Waste Planning Advisory Board, see §
32.072
   Health Department, see §
32.001
   Landfill operation permits, see §
37.83
DISPOSAL REGULATIONS
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY.  Those areas which are under the jurisdiction of the county Health
Officer and situated outside the corporate limits of any city or town.
   GARBAGE.  Rejected food wastes including every waste accumulation of animal,
fruit, or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attends the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit,
or vegetables.
   GROUND WATER.  Water in the ground that is in the zone of saturation.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.  Includes, but is not limited to, explosives,
pathological wastes, radioactive materials, and chemicals.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The county Health Officer, or his or her authorized
representative.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, corporation, or association.
   PUBLIC DISPOSAL.  Disposal of refuse which has been removed from premises
used, owned, or leased by one or more persons, firms, corporations, or
associations, and transported to other premises and disposed of either with or
without the payment of a fee.
   REFUSE.  Any combination of garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH.  Matter such as ashes, cans, metalware, broken glass, crockery,
dirt, sweepings, boxes, wood, grass, weeds, or litter of any kind.
   SALVAGING.  The controlled removal of reusable materials.
   SANITARY LANDFILL.  A method of disposing of refuse on land without creating
nuisances or hazards to public health or safety, by utilizing principles of
engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest practical area to reduce it
to the smallest practical volume, and to cover it with a compacted layer of
suitable cover material at the conclusion of each day and at more frequent
intervals as necessary.
   SCAVENGING.  The uncontrolled picking of materials.
   SURFACE WATER.  A body of water whose top surface is exposed to the
atmosphere, including a flowing body as well as a pond or a lake.
(`88 Code, § 6-25)  (Ord. 104, passed 4-23-73)
§ 50.02  PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not possess an unrevoked
permit from the Health Officer, to engage in the county in the removal of
refuse from premises to a location other than the place of origin of that
refuse for disposal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not possess an unrevoked
permit from the Health Officer to engage in the county in the disposal of
refuse on premises other than the place of origin of that refuse or on premises
at the place of origin in quantities so large as to have public health
significance.
   (C)   (1)   Only persons who comply with the requirements of this subchapter
and § 51.18(C) of this code shall be entitled to receive and retain a refuse
disposal permit. 
      (2)   The permit shall be for the term of one year on a calendar year
basis and shall be renewable annually. 
      (3)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name of
the person to whom the permit is granted, the address of the premises for which
it is issued, and other pertinent information as may be required by the Health
Officer. 
      (4)   A permit shall be issued to any person who has complied with the
requirements of this chapter, and no permit or renewal thereof shall be denied
on arbitrary or capricious grounds. 
      (5)   A permit may be temporarily suspended by the Health Officer, upon
violation by its holder, of any of the terms of this subchapter, or revoked
after an opportunity for a hearing by the Health Officer upon serious or
repeated violations. 
      (6)   A separate permit shall be required for each public disposal site
operated, or to be operated, by any person.
   (D)   No permit fee shall be charged for a state, county, or municipally
owned and operated public refuse disposal site in the county.
   (E)   Before a permit is issued by the Health Officer for any new disposal
site, detailed plans and specifications and necessary reports must be submitted
to the Health Officer and the state Board of Health by a registered
professional engineer.
   (F)   Before a permit is issued by the Health Officer for the collection and
transportation of refuse, all equipment and vehicles to be used shall be
inspected by the Health Officer.  All equipment and vehicles used to transport
refuse to a disposal site shall be covered and cleaned as may be necessary to
prevent nuisances and health hazards.
   (G)   The permit fee shall be set from time to time by the County Board of
Commissioners.
(`88 Code, § 6-26)  (Ord. 104, passed 4-23-73) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.03  INSPECTION OF PUBLIC DISPOSAL SITES AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   At least once each month the Health Officer shall inspect each refuse
disposal site located within the county. 
      (1)   In case the Health Officer discovers a violation of any item of
sanitation pertinent to the provisions of this subchapter, he or she shall make
a second inspection after the lapse of enough time as he or she deems necessary
for the defect to be remedied, and the second inspection shall be used in
determining compliance with the terms of this subchapter. 
      (2)   Any violation of the same item of the subchapter on the second
inspection shall call for suspension or revocation of permit.
   (B)   One copy of the Health Officer’s inspection report, on which
violations of any item of sanitation pertinent to the provisions of this
subchapter shall be inscribed, shall be delivered to the permittee by the
Health Officer.  Another copy of the aforementioned inspection report shall be
filed by the Health Officer with the records of the county Health Department. 
   (C)   The person operating the public health disposal site shall, upon
request of the Health Officer, permit access to all parts of the grounds by the
Health Officer and shall permit him or her to copy any and all records
pertaining to the sources of refuse transported thereto for public disposal.
(`88 Code, § 6-27)  (Ord. 104, passed 4-23-73)
§ 50.04  SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Operation of a landfill shall be in compliance with current Indiana
State Board of Health (ISBH) rules and regulations related to sanitary landfill
operations within the state.  The issuance of any permit to a person for the
operation of a proposed refuse disposal site shall be subject to the approval
of the state Board of Health.
   (B)   (1)   Salvaging, if permitted, shall be organized so that it will not
interfere with prompt sanitary disposal of refuse or create unsightliness or
health hazards.  This provision in no way precludes the right of a landfill
operator to prevent salvaging as a part of his or her operational standards. 
      (2)   Scavenging shall not be permitted. 
      (3)   All salvage material must be removed from the disposal area at
least once each week, except that any and all materials containing food for
rodents and insects, including tin cans, shall be disposed of daily in a
sanitary manner.
   (C)   No garbage, rubbish, trash, or industrial waste shall be burned at a
sanitary landfill.  All burning is prohibited.
   (D)   Any person engaged in public refuse disposal by sanitary landfill
shall have available at all times earth-moving equipment of adequate size and
capacity to satisfactorily operate that sanitary landfill.  An all-weather road
shall be provided to a sanitary landfill site and site of operation.
   (E)   It shall be expressly forbidden to make uncooked garbage available for
animal consumption at any public refuse disposal site.
   (F)   Infestation of rodents and insects on the premises of a public refuse
disposal site shall constitute a violation of this subchapter and the violation
shall be determined by the county Health Officer.
   (G)   Hazardous materials, including liquids and sewage, shall not be
disposed of in a sanitary landfill unless special provisions are made for their
disposal through the Health Officer, the state Board of Health and/or the
Stream Pollution Control Board. This provision in no way precludes the right of
a landfill operator to exclude any materials as a part of his or her
operational standards.
   (H)   The entire site, including the fill surface, shall be graded and
provided with drainage facilities to minimize runoff onto and into the fill, to
prevent erosion or washing of the fill, to drain off rainwater falling on the
fill, and to prevent the collection of standing water.
   (I)   Measures shall be provided to control dust and blowing paper.  The
entire area shall be kept clean and orderly.
   (J)   Modification of the rules on sanitary landfills as applicable to
existing disposal areas may be made by the Health Officer. These modifications
must be approved in writing.
   (K)   Refuse shall be spread so that it can be compacted in layers not
exceeding a depth of two feet.  Large and bulky items, when not excluded from
the site, shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Health Officer.
   (L)   A final layer of suitable cover material compacted to a minimum
thickness of two feet shall be placed over the entire surface of each portion
not later than one week following the placement of refuse within that portion.
   (M)   (1)   An inspection of the entire site shall be made by the Health
Officer to determine compliance with approved plans and specifications before
the earth-moving equipment is removed from the site.
      (2)   Any necessary corrective work shall be performed before the
landfill project is accepted as completed.  Arrangements shall be made for the
repair of all cracked, eroded, and uneven areas in the final cover during the
first two years following completion of the landfill.
   (N)   Any other method of waste disposal not covered by these rules shall be
reviewed by the Health Department for the purpose of evaluating the design and
operational methods with reference to the nuisance factor, the safety of
employees, and the protection of the public health.  Disposal methods shall be
subject to the evaluation and approval of the Health Officer.
(`88 Code, § 6-28)  (Ord. 104, passed 4-23-73) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.05  SERVICE CHARGE; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Service charges are subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-25-11,
which provides for the County Board of Commissioners, from time to time, to set
reasonable service charges after notice and hearing thereon. 
   (B)   The hours of operation of landfills shall be set from time to time by
the County Board of Commissioners.
(`88 Code, § 6-29)  (Ord. 104, passed 4-23-73)
§ 50.06  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The enforcement of this subchapter shall be by the county Health
Officer.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the County Prosecuting Attorney, to whom the
county Health Officer shall report any violations of the provisions of this
subchapter, to cause proceedings to be commenced against the person violating
the provisions of this subchapter and to prosecute to final termination.
(`88 Code, § 6-30)  (Ord. 104, passed 4-23-73)
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT
§ 50.20  DESIGNATION.
   In accordance with I.C. 13-21-3-1, the county is designated as a county
Solid Waste Management District.
(`88 Code, § 6-125)  (Ord. 91-11, passed 5-28-91)
§ 50.21  SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   In accordance with I.C. 13-21-3-5, there is established the county Solid
Waste Management District Board.
(`88 Code, § 6-127)  (Ord. 91-11, passed 5-28-91)
§ 50.22  BOARD COMPOSITION.
   In accordance with I.C. 13-21-3-5, the county Solid Waste Management
District Board shall consist of the following members:
   (A)   Three County Commissioners appointed by the county executive from its
membership;
   (B)   One member appointed by the county fiscal body from the membership of
the fiscal body;
   (C)   One member:
      (1)   Who is the executive of the municipality having the largest
population in the county, if that municipality is a city; or
      (2)   If a town is the municipality having the largest population in the
county, who is appointed from the membership of the fiscal body of that town.
   (D)   One member of the legislative body of the municipality with the
largest population in the county, appointed by the legislative body of that
municipality;
   (E)   One member who is appointed by the executive of the county to
represent the municipalities in the county other than the municipality having
the largest population, and who is:
      (1)   The executive of a city in the county that is not the municipality
having the largest population in the county; or
      (2)   A member of the fiscal body of a town in the county that is not the
municipality having the largest population in the county.
(`88 Code, § 6-128)  (Ord. 91-11, passed 5-28-91)
§ 50.23  BOARD MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of any member of the county Solid Waste Management
District Board who is a
member of an executive, legislative, or fiscal body is co-extensive with the
member’s term of office of that body.
(`88 Code, § 6-129)  (Ord. 91-11, passed 5-28-91)
§ 50.24  BOARD ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The county Solid Waste Management District Board shall select and
designate a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.
   (B)   The county Solid Waste Management District Board shall designate a
fiscal officer who shall be the fiscal officer who represents the largest
population in the district.
   (C)   The county Solid Waste Management District Board may, at its
discretion, adopt rules, regulations, or bylaws as it deems appropriate and
necessary to complete and fulfill its obligations.
   (D)   (1)   Within 30 days of the passage and adoption of this subchapter,
the President of the County Solid Waste Management Board shall convene the
initial organization meeting of the county Solid Waste Management District
Board. 
      (2)   All subsequent meetings of the county Solid Waste Management
District Board shall be held at a time and place designated by the Chairperson
of the county Solid Waste Management District Board.
(`88 Code, § 6-130)  (Ord. 91-11, passed 5-28-91)
§ 50.25  ADVISORY COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Solid Waste Management District Board shall appoint and convene a
politically balanced Solid Waste Management Advisory Committee. 
      (1)   This Committee shall be composed of citizens who are residents of
the county, which citizens are knowledgeable of and interested in environmental
issues. 
      (2)   The Solid Waste Management Advisory Committee shall include one
representative of the solid waste management industry operating within the
county district.
   (B)   (1)   The county Solid Waste Management District Board shall specify
the terms of each member of the Solid Waste Management District Board Advisory
Committee; however, the terms of office shall be staggered for continuity of
the Advisory Committee. 
      (2)   The Advisory Committee shall meet twice monthly until the District
Plan is formulated, thereafter on a scheduled monthly basis.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Solid Waste
Management Advisory Committee to study the subjects and problems specified by
the Board and recommend to the Board additional problems in need of study and
discussion.  The Committee or its members may, if invited by the Board to do
so, participate in the deliberations of the Board, without the right to vote. 
      (2)   The Advisory Committee’s findings of fact shall be presented in
writing to the Solid Waste Management District Board.
   (D)   The Committee or its members may, if invited by the Board to do so,
participate without the right to vote, in the deliberations of the Board;
however, the Advisory Committee shall select from its membership a Chairperson
who shall be the Advisory Committee’s liaison to the District Board, to
participate in the deliberations of the Board, without the right to vote.  The
Chairperson shall be elected yearly and concurrent with the calendar year.
(`88 Code, § 6-131)  (Ord. 91-11, passed 5-28-91)
§ 50.26  BOARD DUTIES.
   The duties of the Solid Waste Management District Board shall include, but
not be limited to the following:
   (A)   The Board shall appoint the Solid Waste Management District Board
Advisory Committee in accordance with § 50.25 above.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt and submit to the Commissioner of the state
Department of Environmental Management a District Solid Waste Management Plan. 
This plan shall meet the requirements of state law and shall also meet the
criteria and other elements set forth in the State Plan.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board, prior to the creation, amendment,
or alteration of the District Solid Waste Management Plan, to conduct two or
more public hearings, one each to be held in the City of LaPorte and Michigan
City, with appropriate public notice of these hearings being given by the
Board.  The Advisory Committee shall participate, without the right to vote,
with intent to receive, assimilate, and consider the public’s input.
   (D)   Prior to the adoption of the District Plan in its final form, the
Board shall hold a public hearing on the proposed plan, and public notice of
this hearing shall be given by the Board.
(`88 Code, § 6-132)  (Ord. 91-11, passed 5-28-91)
§ 50.27  BOARD POWERS.
   (A)   The powers of the Solid Waste Management District Board shall include
the following:
      (1)   The power to develop and implement  a District Solid Waste
Management Plan under I.C. 13-21-5 et seq.;
      (2)   The power to impose district fees on the final disposal of solid
waste within the district under I.C. 13-21-13 et seq.;
      (3)   The power to receive and disburse funds;
      (4)   The power to sue and be sued;
      (5)   The power to borrow money from the district planning revolving loan
fund under I.C. 13-21-3-12;
      (6)   The power to plan, design, construct, finance, manage, own, lease,
operate, and maintain facilities for solid waste management;
      (7)   The power to enter with any person into a contract or agreement
that is necessary or incidental to the management of solid waste. 
Notwithstanding any other statute, the maximum term of a contract or agreement
described in this division may not exceed 40 years.  Contracts or agreements
that may be entered into under this division include those for:
         (a)   The design, construction, operation, financing, ownership, or
maintenance of facilities by the district or any other person;
         (b)   The managing or disposal of solid waste; or
         (c)   The sale or other disposition of materials or products generated
by a facility.
      (8)   The power to enter into agreements for the leasing of facilities in
accordance with I.C. 36-1-10 or 36-9-30;
      (9)   The power to purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire real or personal
property for the management or disposal of solid waste;
      (10)   The power to sell or lease any facility or part of a facility to
any person;
      (11)   The power to make and contract for plans, surveys, studies, and
investigations necessary for the management or disposal of solid waste;
      (12)   The power to enter upon property to make surveys, soundings,
borings, and examinations;
      (13)   The power to accept gifts, grants, or loans of money, other
property, or services from any source, public or private, and to comply with
the terms of the gift, grant, or loan in the name of and for direct benefit of
the county Solid Waste Management District.  This provision shall not be
misconstrued to allow for acceptance of gifts, grants, and the like, for an
individual Board member’s personal benefit;
      (14)   The power to levy a tax within the district to pay costs of
operation in connection with solid waste management, subject to regular budget
and tax levy procedures;
      (15)   The power to borrow in anticipation of taxes;
      (16)   The power to hire the personnel necessary for the management or
disposal of solid waste in accordance with an approved budget and to contract
for professional services;
      (17)   The power to otherwise do all things necessary for the management
or disposal of solid waste in accordance with an approved budget and to
contract for professional services;
      (18)   The power to do all things necessary for the reduction,
management, and disposal of solid waste and the recovery of waste products from
the solid waste stream; and
      (19)   The power to adopt resolutions that have the force of law.
   (B)   The powers of a district do not include the following:
      (1)   The power of eminent domain; or
      (2)   The power to exclusively control the collection or disposal of
solid waste within the district.
(`88 Code, § 6-133)  (Ord. 91-11, passed 5-28-91)
ZIEGLER ROAD WASTE AREA
§ 50.35  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Only the dumping of residential yard and tree debris (defined as grass
clippings, leaves, branches and trees) may occur at the Ziegler Road Waste Dump
Site. No business may dump any debris.
   (B)   It is prohibited to dump garbage other than yard waste.
(Ord. 2007-19, passed 10-16-07)
§ 50.36  VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of this subchapter will be subjected to
a fine of $100, per violation, to be paid to the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (B)   Multiple violations of this subchapter (construed as three or more) by
an individual may be subject to specific action regarding relief and fines and
penalties not to exceed $2,500 per day, per violation, as well as the costs of
this action including attorney fees if legal action is maintained for such
repeated occurrences.
(Ord. 2007-19, passed 10-16-07)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Sewage sludge application prohibited
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
51.15   Title
   
51.16   Regulations adopted by reference
   
51.17   Definitions
   
51.18   General requirements
   
51.19   Permits and inspection
   
51.20   Violation notices
On-Site Sewage System Regulations
   
51.35   Title
   
51.36   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
51.37   Definitions
   
51.38   On-site sewage systems: general requirements
   
51.39   Septic and dosing tanks
   
51.40   Installer registration
   
51.41   Operating permits
   
51.42   Permits
   
51.43   Violation notices, penalties and fines
   
51.44   Validity
Cross-reference:
   Health Department, see §
32.001
   Permits for locating utility lines along county right-of-way, see §
37.78
   Stormwater management, see §§
155.15 through
155.18
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  SEWAGE SLUDGE APPLICATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No sewage sludge, that being the stabilized end product of a sewage
treatment plant, from any source outside of the county shall be applied on any
land lying within the county. 
(`88 Code, § 6-135)
   (B)   Any person, firm, business, or corporation which applies or permits to
be applied sewage sludge from sources outside of the county shall be in
violation of this section. 
(`88 Code, § 6-136)  (Ord. 92-4, passed 4-27-92) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 51.15  TITLE.
   This subchapter may be referred to as the county Private Sewage Disposal
System Ordinance.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-9-95)
§ 51.16  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The regulations of the state Department of Health located at 410 I.A.C. 6-
8.1-1 et seq. and 410 I.A.C. 6-10-1 et seq., as amended from time to time, and
as promulgated by the state Department of Health, are hereby incorporated and
adopted by reference.  One copy of these regulations shall be on file with the
county Health Department.  Two copies of these regulations shall be on file
with the County Clerk’s office and available for public review.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-9-95)
§ 51.17  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided below, the terms defined in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1-1 et
seq. and 410 I.A.C. 6-10-1 et seq. shall carry the same definition whenever
used in this subchapter as the definition provided in those regulations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AVAILABLE.  Within 300 feet of the property line.
      HEALTH OFFICER.  The county Health Officer and his or her duly authorized
representative(s).
      PERMIT.  A written permission to proceed with specified work with respect
to a private sewerage disposal system which is issued by the Health Officer or
the Commissioner of the state Department of Health.
      PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  A residential sewage disposal system as
defined in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1-17, or a commercial on-site wastewater disposal
facility as defined in 410 I.A.C. 6-10-2.
      SEWAGE.  Any combination of human excreta and wastewater from water
closets, laundries, sinks, bathing facilities, and other objectionable
wastewaters.
      SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for receiving, treating, and disposing of sewage.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-9-95)
§ 51.18  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where a sanitary sewerage disposal system is not available, all
persons owning or leasing property shall comply with the following provisions
of this subchapter for private sewage disposal systems.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
county or in any area under the jurisdiction of the county, any human excrement
or sewage.
   (C)   At any commercial establishment situated within the county, where
there is installed a sewage disposal system which is not connected to a
sanitary sewerage system, and no sanitary sewerage system is available, there
shall be established, installed, or constructed and maintained a sewage
disposal system which shall comply with the standards of the state Department
of Health as contained in 410 I.A.C. 6-10 or in some other manner as approved
by the state Department of Health.
   (D)   All residential sewage disposal systems shall be installed,
constructed, and maintained in an approved manner as described in 410 I.A.C. 6-
8.1 of the state Department of Health and as herein described.
   (E)   Should any defect exist or occur in any private sewage disposal system
which would cause that sewage disposal system or privy to fail and cause an
unsanitary condition, the defect shall be corrected immediately by the owner,
agent of the owner, occupant, or agent of the occupant.  Failure to do so shall
be a violation of this subchapter and the violator shall be subject to the
proceedings and penalties prescribed in § 51.20 of this code.
   (F)   Wherever a sanitary sewer becomes available and is within 300 feet of
the property line of the residential or commercial property, served by a
private sewage disposal system, situated within the county, a direct connection
shall be made to this sewer and any septic tanks, seepage pits, outhouses,
privy pits, and similar sewage disposal and treatment facilities shall be
abandoned and filled in a safe and sanitary manner.
   (G)   Whenever a commercial building or subdivision is developed in an area
where a sanitary sewer is available, a connection shall be made to that sewer.
   (H)   After receiving an order in writing from the county Board of Health or
the duly appointed Health Officer, the owner, or agent of the owner, and the
occupant or agent of the occupant of the property shall comply with the
provisions of this subchapter as set forth in the order and within the time
limit included therein.  The order shall be served on the owner, or the owner
and the occupant, or on the agent of the owner, but may be served on any person
who, by contact with the owner, has assumed the duty of complying with the
provisions of an order.
   (I)   (1)   The Health Officer, with the Health Board’s approval, may from
time to time specify policy, procedures, or requirements regarding the issuance
of or application for a permit for a private sewage disposal system.  These
policies, procedures, or requirements shall have the same force and effect as
if incorporated and set forth here in full. 
      (2)   Copies of these policies, procedures, or requirements shall be on
file and available for review in the County Clerk’s office and the Health
Department.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-9-95) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.19  PERMITS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Before commencement of construction of any building or private
residence where a private sewage disposal system is to be installed or where
any alteration, repair, or addition to an existing private sewage disposal
system is planned, the owner or agent of the owner shall first obtain a written
permit to construct, signed by the county Health Officer.  The application for
this permit shall be made on a form provided by the county, which the applicant
shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other information as are
deemed necessary by the county Health Officer and as required by the applicable
state regulations. 
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee as set forth in §
37.32 of this code shall be paid to the Health Officer at the time the permit
to construct is issued.  Fees collected shall be accounted for and transferred
to the health fund of the taxing unit. 
      (3)   The permit to construct shall be valid for a period of one year
from the date of issuance.
   (B)   Permit fees are not refundable.  Transfer of ownership of the real
estate for which a private sewage disposal system application for permit has
been issued shall automatically void the permit for that property; provided,
however, the transfer of owner- ship that occurs as a part of a contractual
agreement between the builder and/or developer and the buyer shall not void the
permit if all other conditions of the permit remain the same.
   (C)   When a permit has expired or has been revoked, the work on the private
sewage disposal system shall not commence or resume unless a new application
and fee have been submitted and a new permit has been obtained.
   (D)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not be considered
complete until the installation is finished to the satisfaction of the county
Health Officer and confirmed by the signature of the Health Officer affixed to
the permit.  He or she, or his or her agent, shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction; and in every event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the county Health Officer when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.  The inspection
shall be made within two working days of the receipt of notice by the county
Health Officer.
   (E)   The permit to construct shall be readily available at the construction
site.
   (F)   Any permit shall become null and void should any or further
requirements of the permit to construct, as determined by the Health Officer,
not be met.
   (G)   The county Health Officer or his or her agent bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
at the proper time for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
   (H)   The issuance of a permit to repair a private sewage disposal system
shall not be construed as approval of pre-existing portions of the system nor
acknowledgment that the system meets all requirements of the county or the
state Department of Health.  The Health Officer does recognize that a number of
older private sewage disposal systems in the county cannot meet current
requirements due to site or system limitations and that proposals for repair
must make the best use of the available space and system and must meet
acceptable standards in the interests of public health.
   (I)   If an applicant is refused a permit, the local Board of Health shall,
upon request, afford the applicants the opportunity for a fair hearing.  The
parties involved may agree to use the procedures set forth in I.C. 4-21.5, the
Administrative Procedure and Orders Act.
   (J)   (1)   The local Board of Health may revoke a permit which had been
issued for construction of a residential sewage disposal system if it finds
that the owner of the permit has failed to comply with this rule. 
      (2)   Upon giving notice of this the local Board shall, upon request,
afford the applicant the opportunity for a fair hearing.  The parties involved
may agree to use the procedures set forth in I.C. 4-21.5 et seq., the
Administrative Procedure and Orders Act.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-9-95)
Statutory reference:
   Administrative orders and procedures, see I.C. 4-21.5 et seq.
§ 51.20  VIOLATION NOTICES.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter may
be served by the county Board of Health or the duly appointed Health Officer,
with a written order stating the nature of the violation, conditions that may
transmit disease, and providing a time limit for satisfactory correction
thereof.
   (B)   If a person refuses or neglects to obey an order issued under this
section or I.C. 16-20-1-25, proceedings may be instituted in the courts for
enforcement.  An order may be enforced by injunction.  If the action is a
criminal offense, a law enforcement authority with jurisdiction over the place
where the offense occurred shall be notified.
(Ord. 1996-22, passed 12-9-95)
ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM REGULATIONS
§ 51.35  TITLE.
   This subchapter may be referred to as the “LaPorte County Residential Onsite
Sewage Systems subchapter.”
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-21-12)
§ 51.36  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The regulations of the Indiana State Department of Health located at 410 IAC
6-8.2, et seq. and 410 IAC 6-10-1, et seq. as amended from time to time, and as
promulgated by the Indiana State Department of Health, are hereby incorporated
and adopted by reference. One copy of these regulations shall be on file with
the LaPorte County Health Department. Two copies of these regulations shall be
on file with the LaPorte County Clerk’s office and available for public review.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-21-12)
§ 51.37  DEFINITIONS.
   Except as provided below, the terms defined in 410 IAC 6-8.2, et seq. and
410 IAC 6-10-1, et seq. shall carry the same definition whenever used in this
subchapter as the definition provided in those regulations. For purposes of
this subchapter, the terms below shall be defined as follows:
   AVAILABLE.  Within 300 feet of the property line.
   CERTIFIED INSTALLER.  An installer who passes a written proficiency
examination conducted by the La Porte County Health Department or an entity
approved by the LaPorte County Health Department, and maintains certification
through retesting or obtaining the proper continuing education units.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The LaPorte County Health Officer and his or her duly
authorized representative(s).
   ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM.  Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
receiving, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   OPERATING PERMIT.  Written approval by the LPCHD for continued use of an on-
site system.
   PERMIT. A written permission to proceed with specified work with respect to
a private sewerage disposal system which is issued by the Health Officer or the
Commissioner of the Indiana State Department of Health.
   PRIVATE ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  Shall mean and include a
residential on-site sewage system as defined in 410 IAC 6-8.2-30, or a
commercial on-site wastewater disposal facility as defined in 410 IAC 6-10-2.
   REGISTERED INSTALLER.  A certified installer who registers with the La Porte
County Health Department.
   SEWAGE.  Any combination of human excreta and waste water from water
closets, laundries, sinks, bathing facilities, and other objectionable waste
waters.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-21-12)
§ 51.38  ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEMS: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where a sanitary sewerage disposal system is not available all persons
owning or leasing property shall comply with the following provisions of this
subchapter for residential on-site sewage systems.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
County of LaPorte, State of Indiana or in any area under the jurisdiction of
said county, any sewage.
   (C)   At any commercial establishment situated within the County of LaPorte,
State of Indiana, where there is installed a on-site sewage system which is not
connected to a sanitary sewerage system, and no sanitary sewerage system is
available, there shall be established, installed or constructed and maintained
an on-site sewage system which shall comply with the standards of the Indiana
State Department of Health as contained in 410-IAC 6-10 or in such other manner
as approved by the Indiana State Department of Health.
   (D)   All residential on-site sewage systems shall be installed, constructed
and maintained in an approved manner as described in 410-IAC 6-8.2 of the
Indiana State Department of Health and as herein described.
   (E)   The installation of any other residential on-site sewage system not
described in Indiana State Department of Health 410 IAC 6-8.2 of mechanical,
chemical or other means may be approved by the LaPorte County Health Officer
with appropriate restrictions and requirements, providing such installation
complies with this subchapter.
   (F)   Should any defect exist or occur in any on-site sewage system which
would cause said on-site sewage system or privy to fail and cause an unsanitary
condition, the defect shall be corrected immediately by the owner or agent of
the owner, occupant or agent of the occupant. Failure to do so shall be a
violation of this subchapter and the violator shall be subject to the
proceedings and penalties prescribed in §
51.43 of this subchapter.
   (G)   Wherever a sanitary sewer is within 300 feet of the property line of
the residential or commercial property, served by an on-site sewage system
which is in failure, a connection shall be made to said sewer.
   (H)   After receiving an order in writing from the County Board of Health or
the duly appointed Health Officer, the owner, agent of the owner, the occupant
or agent of the occupant of the property shall comply with the provisions of
this subchapter as set forth in said order and within the time limit included
therein. Said order shall be served on the owner or the owner and the occupant
or on the agent of the owner but may be served on any person who, by contact
with the owner, has assumed the duty of complying with the provisions of an
order.
   (I)   The Health Officer with the Health Board’s approval may, from time to
time, specify policy, procedures, or requirements regarding the issuance of or
application for a permit for a private sewage disposal system. Such policy,
procedures, or requirements shall have the same force and affect as if
incorporated and set forth here in full. Copies of said policy, procedure or
requirements shall be on file and available for review in the County Clerk’s
office and the Health Department.
   (J)   A soil profile analysis shall be required for all new and repair
residential on-site sewage systems. The soil profile analysis shall be
conducted by a registered professional soil scientist with the Indiana Registry
of Soil Scientists (IRSS). The soil profile information shall be recorded to a
depth of five feet for new OSS and a depth of six feet for repair OSS or until
layer is encountered that cannot be readily penetrated.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-21-12)
§ 51.39  SEPTIC AND DOSING TANKS.
   (A)   Only septic tanks listed on the Indiana Stated Department of Health
approved septic tank list shall be installed in La Porte County. The minimum
septic tank size allowed to be installed in La Porte County is 750 gallons.
   (B)   Dosing tanks shall meet the same standards as septic tanks and shall
come from the same manufacturers listed on the Indiana State Department of
Health approved septic tank list.
   (C)   Dosing tank sizing shall be the same as septic tank sizing as
described in rule 410 IAC 6-8.2-58.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-21-12)
§ 51.40  INSTALLER REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Installer registration. Effective January 1, 2012, no person shall
construct, install, replace, alter, or repair any part of any Onsite Sewage
System (OSS) in La Porte County unless the person is registered and has a
surety bond with the La Porte County Health Department.
      (1)   An installer shall file an Application for Installer Registration
with the La Porte County Health Department (LPCHD), and keep on file at the
LPCHD a current certification in gravity OSS, flood OSS, trench pressure OSS,
sand mound OSS, and alternative technology OSS for which an interim standard
has been published by the Indiana State Department of Health (ISDH).
      (2)   Such registration shall be valid for a term of one-year beginning
January lst and expiring December 31st, of the same year and shall be renewed
annually. The registration shall bear the name and address of the registered
installer and the expiration date and shall not be transferable.
      (3)   Any installer new to LaPorte County shall be placed on a
probationary status for their first three installations. At the completion of
the third installation the contractor shall either be granted full
registration, denied registration, or have their probation extended.
   (B)   Installer examination. Every installer engaged in the construction,
alteration, installation, replacement, or repair of OSS in La Porte County
shall be knowledgeable of all laws, rules, technical specifications, and
ordinances of both the State of Indiana and La Porte County governing OSS.
      (1)   The applicant for certification shall demonstrate knowledge of the
applicable laws, rules, technical specifications, and ordinances before
becoming certified by passing a written proficiency examination conducted by
the LPCHD or an entity approved by the LPCHD.
      (2)   The examination shall be in multiple parts. The LPCHD or an entity
approved by the LPCHD will develop examinations to test the applicant knowledge
of laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances of the State of Indiana and La
Porte County in the following areas:
         (a)   Part A will cover gravity OSS and flood dose OSS;
         (b)   Part B will cover trench pressure distribution OSS and sand
mound OSS.
      (c)   Additional examinations for alternative technology OSS for which an
interim standard has been published by the ISDH.
      (3)   The examinations shall be reviewed from time to time to determine
their applicability to current laws, rules, technical specifications and
ordinances.
      (4)   Homeowners wishing to install their own systems may do so for
gravity systems only and after passing the gravity OSS portion of the installer
exam.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-21-12)
§ 51.41  OPERATING PERMITS.
   (A)   Operating permits. Effective January 1, 2012, any on-site system
installed or altered shall require an operating permit. The operating permit
shall be renewed as follows:
      (1)   At least once every three years for on-site systems having
components other that a septic tank, requiring scheduled maintenance and
inspection.
      (2)   At least once every five years for all other on-site systems.
      (3)   The operating permit shall identify all components of the on-site
system requiring inspection and maintenance.
   (B)   The operating permit requiring scheduled inspections and maintenance
shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name, address, e-mail, and phone number of the service company
contracted to perform the inspection and maintenance.
      (2)   A copy of the operation and maintenance document(s) used for the
scheduled inspection and maintenance.
   (C)   The owner shall provide the LPCHD with the following:
      (1)   Written documentation of all scheduled and unscheduled inspection
and maintenance within one month of the date performed.
      (2)   A copy of the inspections and maintenance contract.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-21-12)
§ 51.42  PERMITS.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of any building or private
residence where an on-site sewage system is to be installed or where any
alteration, repair or addition of an existing on-site sewage system is planned,
the owner or agent of the owner shall first obtain a written “permit to
construct” signed by the Health Officer. The application for such permit shall
be made on a form provided by LaPorte County, which applicant shall supplement
by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by
the Health Officer and as required by the applicable state regulations. A
permit and inspection fee as set forth in the Health Department Fee Schedule
ordinance shall be paid to the Health Department at the time the “permit to
construct” is issued. Fees collected shall be accounted for and transferred to
the Health Fund of the taxing unit. The “permit to construct” shall be valid
for a period of one year from the date of issuance.
   (B)   Permit fees are not refundable. Transfer of ownership of the real
estate for which a on-site sewage system application for permit has been issued
shall automatically void the permit for that property; provided, however, the
transfer of ownership that occurs as a part of a contractual agreement between
builder and/r developer and the buyer shall not void the permit if all other
conditions of the permit remain the same.
   (C)   When a permit has expired or has been revoked, the work on the on-site
sewage system shall not commence or resume unless a new application and fee
have been submitted and a new permit has been obtained.
   (D)   A permit for an on-site sewage system shall not be considered complete
until the installation is finished to the satisfaction of the Health Officer
and confirmed by the signature of the Health Officer affixed to the permit. He
or she, or his or her agent, shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction; and in every event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the Health Officer when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within two
working days of the receipt of notice to the Health Officer.
   (E)   The “permit to construct” shall be readily available at the
construction site.
   (F)   Any permit shall become null and void should any or further
requirements of the “permit to construct,” as determined by the Health Officer,
not been met.
   (G)   The Health Officer or his agent bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at the proper
time for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and
testing necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
   (H)   The issuance of a permit to repair an on-site sewage system shall not
be construed as approval of pre-existing portions of the system nor acknowledge
that the system meets all requirements of the county or the Indiana State
Department of Health. The Health Officer does recognize that a number of older
on-site sewage systems in the county cannot meet current requirements due to
site or system limitations and that proposal for repair must make the best use
of the available space and system and must meet acceptable standards in the
interests of public health.
   (I)   If an applicant is refused a permit, the local board of health shall,
upon request, afford the applicants the opportunity for a fair hearing. The
parties involved may agree to use the procedures set forth in I.C. 4-21.5, the
Administrative Procedure and Orders act.
   (J)   The local board of health may revoke a permit which had been issued
for construction of an on-site sewage system if it finds that the owner of the
permit has failed to comply with this rule. Upon such notice the local board
shall, upon request, afford the applicant the opportunity for a fair hearing.
The parties involved may agree to use the procedures set forth in I.C. 4-21.5,
the Administrative Procedure and Orders Act.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-21-12)
§ 51.43  VIOLATION NOTICES, PENALTIES AND FINES.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this ordinance may
be served by the County Board of Health or the duly appointed Health Officer,
with a written order stating the nature of the violation, conditions that may
transmit disease, and providing a time limit for satisfactory correction
thereof.
   (B)   If a person refuses or neglects to obey an order issued under this
section or I.C. 16-20-1-25, proceedings may be instituted in the courts for
enforcement.  An order may be enforced by injunction. If the action is a
criminal offense, a law enforcement authority with the jurisdiction over the
place where the offense occurred shall be notified.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter shall be
deemed to have committed an ordinance violation and, upon conviction shall be
fined not more than $500 for the first offense and not more than $1,000 for the
second offense; and for the third and each subsequent offense by a fine of not
more than $2,500.  Each day after the expiration of the time limit for abating
unsanitary conditions and completing improvements to abate such conditions as
ordered by the County Board of Health or by the duly appointed Health Officer
of the County, shall constitute a distinct and separate offense. Such monies
(fines) collected shall be accounted for and shall be transferred to the Health
Fund of the taxing unit.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-21-12)
§ 51.44  VALIDITY.
   (A)   In the event that any provision of this subchapter is ultimately
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to conflict with any provision
of 410 IAC 6-8.2, et seq. or 410 IAC 6-10-1, et seq., then and in any such
event the more strict provision shall govern.
   (B)   In the event that any provision of this subchapter is ultimately
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be pre-empted by any state
or federal law or regulation, this subchapter shall automatically be deemed
amended by eliminating the pre-empted provision and incorporating in its place
the applicable provision of the pre-empting state or federal law or regulation.
   (C)   Each provision of this subchapter shall be construed as separate, to
the end that if any part of it shall be held invalid for any reason, the
remainder shall continue in full force and effect.
   (D)   Compliance with the requirements of this subchapter does not obviate
or eliminate the necessity of complying with any other applicable federal,
state, or local lows and regulations affecting private sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-21-12)
CHAPTER 52:  STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
Section
Stormwater Management
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Applicability
   
52.04   Compatibility
   
52.05   Reference materials
   
52.06   Permit procedures and requirements
   
52.07   Waivers for providing stormwater management
   
52.08   Fee in lieu of stormwater management practices
   
52.09   Dedication of land
   
52.10   General performance criteria for stormwater management
   
52.11   Basic stormwater management design criteria
   
52.12   Requirements for Stormwater Management Plan Approval
   
52.13   Construction inspection
   
52.14   Maintenance and repair of stormwater facilities
   
52.15   Administration
   
52.16   Enforcement and penalties
Storm Drainage Systems
   
52.25   Purpose
   
52.26   Definitions
   
52.27   Applicability
   
52.28   Discharge prohibitions
   
52.29   Suspension of MS4 access
   
52.30   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
52.31   Monitoring of discharges
   
52.32   Environmental considerations
   
52.33   Administration
   
52.34   Ultimate responsibility
   
52.35   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Flood management, see
Ch. 155
   Stormwater  road return periods, see Ch. 155, App. A.
   Stormwater drainage, minimum pipe slopes, see Ch. 155, App. B
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 52.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to meet the requirements of IDEM Rule 327
IAC 15-13 (Rule 13).
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCELERATED EROSION.  Erosion caused by development activities that exceeds
the natural processes by which the surface of the land is worn away by the
action of water, wind, or chemical action.
   APPLICANT. A property owner or agent of a property owner who has filed an
application for a stormwater management permit.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE or BMP.  Any structural or non-structural control
measure utilized to improve the quality and, as appropriate, the quantity of
stormwater runoff.
   BUILDING.  Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having walls and a
roof, designed for the shelter of any person, animal, or property, and
occupying more than 100 square feet of area.
   CHANNEL.  A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks
that conducts continuously or periodically flowing water.
   COUNTY.  The County of LaPorte, Indiana.
   DEDICATION. The deliberate appropriation of property by its owner for
general public use.
   DETENTION. The temporary storage of storm runoff in a stormwater management
practice with the goals of controlling peak discharge rates and providing
gravity settling of pollutants.
   DETENTION FACILITY.  A detention basin or alternative structure designed for
the purpose of temporary storage of stream flow or surface runoff and gradual
release of stored water at controlled rates.
   DEVELOPER. A person who undertakes land disturbance activities.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT.  A legal right granted by a landowner to a grantee
allowing the use of private land for stormwater management purposes.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN (ESCP). A plan that is designed to
minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site during
construction activities.
   FEE IN LIEU.  A payment of money in place of meeting all or part of the
stormwater performance standards required by this subchapter.
   HOTSPOT. An area where land use or activities generate highly contaminated
runoff, with concentrations of pollutants in excess of those typically found in
stormwater.
   HYDROLOGIC SOIL GROUP (HSG). A Natural Resource Conservation Service
classification system in which soils are categorized into four runoff potential
groups. The groups range from “A” soils, with high permeability and little
runoff production, to “O” soils, which have low permeability rates and produce
much more runoff.
   IMPERVIOUS COVER. Those surfaces that cannot effectively infiltrate rainfall
(such as building rooftops, pavement, sidewalks, driveways, and the like).
   INDUSTRIAL STORMWATER PERMIT. A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System permit issued to a commercial industry or group of industries which
regulates the pollutant levels associated with industrial storm water
discharges or specifies on-site pollution control strategies.
   INFILTRATION. The process of percolating stormwater into the subsoil.
   INFILTRATION FACILITY.  Any structure or device designed to infiltrate
retained water to the subsurface. These facilities may be above grade or below
grade.
   JURISDICTIONAL WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface
water or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a
prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
   LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY.  Any activity which changes the volume or peak
flow discharge rate of rainfall runoff from the land surface. This may include
the grading, digging, cutting, scraping, or excavating of soil, placement of
fill materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any
activity which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of any
natural or manmade watercourse.
   LANDOWNER. The legal or beneficial owner of land, including those holding
the right to purchase or lease the land, or any other person holding
proprietary rights in the land.
   MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT. A legally recorded document that acts as a property
deed restriction, and which provides for long-term maintenance of stormwater
management practices.
   MS4 ADVISORY COMMITTEE. Those appointed representatives of the municipal and
county entities who administer the MS4 Program under the permit issued by IDEM.
   HMS4 COORDINATOR. A designated representative of the county responsible for
assisting in the implementation and management of the Stormwater Quality
Management Program for the County.
   NON-POINT SOURCE POLLUTION.  Pollution from any source other than from any
discernible, confined, and discrete conveyances, and shall include, but not be
limited to, pollutants from agricultural, silviculture, mining, construction,
subsurface disposal and urban runoff sources.
   OFFSET FEE.  A monetary compensation paid to a local government for failure
to meet pollutant load reduction targets.
   OFF-SITE FACILITY.  A stormwater management measure located outside the
subject property boundary described in the permit application for land
development activity.
   ON-SITE FACILITY.  A stormwater management measure located within the
subject property boundary described in the permit application for land
development activity.
   RECHARGE.  The replenishment of underground water reserves.
   REDEVELOPMENT.  Any construction, alteration or improvement equal to or
greater than 43,560 square feet (one acre) in areas where existing land use is
high density commercial, industrial, institutional or multi-family residential.
   RULE 5 and RULE 13. Respectively, 327 IAC 15-5 and 327 IAC 15-13. The
Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) has the authority to
administer the Erosion Control Program under RULE 5. When IDEM approves the
transfer of the Erosion Control Program to MS4 entities, such authority will be
by RULE 13 in the MS4 areas only, RULE 5 will continue to apply to non-MS4
areas of the state. The issuance of an authorization letter by IDEM will
determine which rule will have precedence or apply.
   STOP WORK ORDER.  An order issued which requires that all construction
activity on a site be stopped.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.  The use of structural or non-structural practices
that are designed to reduce stormwater runoff pollutant loads, discharge
volumes, peak flow discharge rates and detrimental changes in stream
temperature that affect water quality habitat.
   STORMWATER RETROFIT. A stormwater management practice designed for an
existing development site that previously had either no stormwater management
practice in place or a practice inadequate to meet the stormwater management
requirements of the site.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF.  Flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from
precipitation.
   STORMWATER TREATMENT PRACTICES (STPs).  Measures, either structural or
nonstructural, that are determined to be the most effective, practical means of
preventing or reducing point source or non-point source pollution inputs to
stormwater runoff and water bodies.
   WATER QUALITY VOLUME (WQv). The storage needed to capture and treat 90% of
the average annual stormwater runoff volume. Numerically, WQv will vary as a
function of long-term rainfall statistical data.
   WATERCOURSE.  A permanent or intermittent stream or other body of water,
either natural or man-made, which gathers or carries surface water.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.03  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be applicable to all subdivision or site plan
applications with land disturbances effecting one acre or more unless eligible
for an exemption or granted a waiver by the MS4 Coordinator under the
specifications of §
52.07. The subchapter also applies to land development activities that are
smaller than the minimum applicability criteria if such activities are part of
a larger common plan of development that meets the following applicability
criteria, even though multiple separate and distinct land development
activities may take place at different times on different schedules.
   (B)   To prevent the adverse impacts of stormwater runoff, the County has
developed a set of performance standards that must be met at new development
sites. The following activities are exempt from these stormwater performance
criteria:
      (1)   Additions or modifications to existing single family structures;
      (2)   Developments that do not disturb more than 43,560 square feet (one
acre) of land, provided they are not part of a larger common development plan;
      (3)   Repairs to any stormwater treatment practice deemed necessary by
the Sanitary Districts of LaPorte or Michigan City.
   (C)   When a site development plan is submitted that qualifies as a
redevelopment project as defined in §
52.02 of this subchapter, decisions on permitting and on-site stormwater
requirements shall be governed by stormwater sizing criteria found in the
Reference Manuals noted in §
52.05. This criteria is dependent on the amount of impervious area created by
the redevelopment and its impact on water quality. Final authorization of all
redevelopment projects will be determined after a review by the MS4
Coordinator.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.04  COMPATIBILITY.
   This subchapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any
other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of law. The
requirements of this subchapter should be considered minimum requirements, and
where any provision of this subchapter imposes restrictions different from
those imposed by any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of
law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective
standards for human health or the environment shall be considered to take
precedence.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.05  REFERENCE MANUALS.
   (A)   Information pertaining to Best Management Practices that can assist
developers in meeting the requirements of this subchapter can be found in the
following reference manuals:
      (1)   The Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual;
      (2)   The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Urban Watershed Forestry
Manual; and
      (3)   The Indiana Drainage Handbook.
   (B)   If there are any conflicts with this subchapter and/or any existing
LaPorte County ordinances with the above-named Reference Manuals, the County
ordinances shall supersede.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.06  PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit requirements. No land owner or developer shall commence any
land disturbance activities without first meeting the requirements of the "MS4
Construction Activity Erosion and Sediment Control Program" ordinance,
including, where applicable, obtaining a Site Development Permit based upon an
Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (ESCP) approved by the MS4 Coordinator.
   (B)   Application Requirements.
      (1)   Unless specifically excluded by this subchapter, any land owner or
developer desiring a permit for a land disturbance activity shall submit to the
MS4 Coordinator a permit application on a form provided for that purpose.
      (2)   Unless otherwise excepted by this subchapter, a permit application
must be accompanied by the following in order that the permit application be
considered:
         (a)   A Stormwater Management Plan; and
         (b)   A maintenance agreement.
      (3)   The Stormwater Management Plan shall be prepared to meet the
requirements of §§
52.10 through
52.12; the maintenance agreement shall be prepared to meet the requirements of
§
52.14.
      (4)   The Stormwater Management Plan and maintenance agreement shall be
submitted as part of the ESCP submitted to the MS4 Coordinator as part of the
compliance requirements contained within the "MS4 Construction Activity Erosion
and Sediment Control Program" ordinance.
   (C)   Application review fees. The Site Development Permit Fee submitted
with the ESCP pursuant to the "MS4 Construction Activity Erosion and Sediment
Control Program" ordinance shall satisfy the application fee for review of the
Stormwater Management Plan.
   (D)   Application procedure.
      (1)   Applications for land disturbance activity permits must be filed
with the MS4 Coordinator.
      (2)   The Stormwater Management Plan and maintenance agreement shall be
submitted by the construction project site owner in triplicate to the MS4
Coordinator, within the same application required for the ESCP submittal as
part of the "MS4 Construction Activity Erosion and Sediment Control Program"
ordinance.
      (3)   Within 20 business days of the receipt of a complete permit
application including all documents as required by this subchapter, the MS4
Coordinator shall inform the applicant whether the application, plan and
maintenance agreement are approved or disapproved.
      (4)   If the permit application, stormwater management plan or
maintenance agreement are disapproved, the applicant may revise the stormwater
management plan or agreement. If additional information is submitted, the MS4
Coordinator shall have five business days from the date the additional
information is received to inform the applicant that the plan and maintenance
agreement are either approved or disapproved.
      (5)   If the permit application, final stormwater management plan and
maintenance agreement are approved by the MS4 Coordinator, all appropriate land
disturbance activity permits shall be issued.
   (E)   Permit duration. Permits issued under this section shall be valid from
the date of issuance through the date the MS4 Coordinator notifies the permit
holder that all stormwater management practices have passed the final
inspection requirements under permit condition.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.07  WAIVERS FOR PROVIDING STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Every applicant shall provide for stormwater management as required by
this subchapter, unless a written request is filed to waive this requirement.
Requests to waive the stormwater management plan requirements shall be
submitted to the MS4 Coordinator for approval.
   (B)   The minimum requirements for stormwater management may be waived in
whole or in part upon written request of the applicant, provided that at least
one of the following conditions applies:
      (1)   It can be demonstrated that the proposed development is not likely
to impair attainment of the objectives of this subchapter.
      (2)    Alternative minimum requirements for on-site management of
stormwater discharges have been established in a stormwater management plan 
that has been approved by the county and the implementation of the plan is
required by local ordinance.
      (3)   Provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off-site facility.
The off-site facility is required to be in place, to be designed and adequately
sized to provide a level of stormwater control that is equal to or greater than
that which would be afforded by on-site practices and there is a legally
obligated entity responsible for long-term operation and maintenance of the
stormwater practice.
      (4)   The MS4 Coordinator finds that meeting the minimum on-site
management requirements is not feasible due to the natural or existing physical
characteristics of a site.
      (5)   Non-structural practices, as explained in the Reference Manuals
listed in §
52.05, will be implemented, with the amount of credit available for using such
practices as determined by the MS4 Coordinator. Non-structural practices will
be used on the site that reduce:
         (a)   The generation of stormwater from the site;
         (b)   The size and cost of stormwater storage; and
         (c)   The pollutants generated at the site.
   (C)   In instances where one of the conditions above applies, the MS4
Coordinator may grant a  waiver from strict compliance with these stormwater
management provisions, as long as acceptable mitigation measures are provided.
However, to be eligible for a variance, the applicant must demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the county that the variance will not result in the following
impacts to downstream waterways:
      (1)   Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams and other
structures;
      (2)   Degradation of biological functions or habitat;
      (3)   Accelerated stream bank or streambed erosion or siltation; and
      (4)   Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life and/or
property.
   (D)   Furthermore, where compliance with minimum requirements for stormwater
management is waived, the applicant will satisfy the minimum requirements by
meeting one of the mitigation measures selected by the MS4 Coordinator.
Mitigation measures may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The purchase and donation of privately owned lands, or the grant of
an easement to be dedicated for preservation and/or reforestation. These lands
should be located adjacent to the stream corridor in order to provide permanent
buffer areas to protect water quality and aquatic habitat.
      (2)   The creation of a stormwater management facility or other drainage
improvements on previously developed properties, public or private, that
currently lack stormwater management facilities designed and constructed in
accordance with the purposes and standards of this subchapter.
      (3)   Monetary contributions (Fee-in-Lieu) to fund stormwater management
activities such as research and studies (for example, regional wetland
delineation studies, stream monitoring studies for water quality and macro-
invertebrates, stream flow monitoring, threatened and endangered species
studies, hydrologic studies, and monitoring of stormwater management
practices).
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.08  FEE IN LIEU OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   Where the MS4 Coordinator waives all or part of the minimum stormwater
management requirements, or where the waiver is based on the provision of
adequate stormwater facilities provided downstream of the proposed development,
the applicant shall be required to pay a fee in an amount as determined by the
county.
   (B)   When an applicant obtains a waiver of the required stormwater
management requirements, the monetary contribution required shall be in
accordance with a fee schedule (unless the developer and the stormwater
authority agree on a greater alternate contribution) established by the county,
and based on the cubic feet of storage required for stormwater management of
the development in question. All of the monetary contributions shall be
credited to an appropriate capital improvements program project, and shall be
made by the developer prior to the issuance of any building permit for the
development.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.09  DEDICATION OF LAND.
   In lieu of or in conjunction with a monetary contribution, an applicant may
obtain a waiver of the stormwater management requirements by entering into an
agreement with the Sanitary District for the granting of an easement or the
dedication of land by the applicant, to be used for the construction of an off-
site stormwater management facility. The agreement shall be entered into by the
applicant and the county prior to the recording of plats or, if no record plat
is required, prior to the issuance of the building permit.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.10  GENERAL PERFORMANCE CRITERIA FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Unless judged by the MS4 Coordinator to be exempt or granted a waiver,
the following performance criteria shall be addressed for stormwater management
at all sites one acre or greater:
      (1)    All site designs shall establish stormwater management practices
to control the peak flow rates of stormwater discharge associated with
specified design storms and reduce the generation of stormwater. These
practices should seek to utilize pervious areas for stormwater treatment and to
infiltrate stormwater runoff from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots,
and landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical to provide treatment for
both water quality and quantity.
      (2)   All stormwater runoff generated from new development shall not
discharge directly into a jurisdictional wetland or local water body without
adequate treatment. Where such discharges are proposed, the impact of the
proposal on wetland functional values shall be assessed using a method
acceptable to the MS4 Coordinator. In no case shall the impact on functional
values be any less than allowed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (U.S. ACE)
or other agencies regulating wetlands in the State of Indiana.
      (3)   To protect stream channels from degradation, specific channel
protection criteria shall be provided as prescribed in §
52.05, Reference Manuals.
      (4)   Stormwater discharges to critical areas with sensitive resources
(such as cold-water fisheries, shellfish beds, swimming beaches, recharge
areas, water supply reservoirs) may be subject to additional performance
criteria, or may need to utilize or restrict certain stormwater management
practices.
      (5)   Certain industrial sites are required to prepare and implement a
stormwater pollution prevention plan, and shall file a Notice of Intent (N0I)
under the provisions of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES). The stormwater pollution prevention plan requirement applies to both
existing and new industrial sites.
      (6)   Stormwater discharges from land uses or activities with higher
potential pollutant loadings, known as HOTSPOTS,  may require the use of
specific structural STPs and pollution prevention practices.
      (7)   Prior to design, applicants are required to consult with the MS4
Coordinator to determine if they are subject to additional stormwater design
requirements.
      (8)   The calculations for determining peak flows as found in §
52.05 Reference Manuals, or other municipal ordinances, shall be used for
sizing all stormwater management practices.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.11  BASIC STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Minimum control requirements.
      (1)   All stormwater management practices will be designed so that the
specific storm frequency storage volumes (such as recharge, water quality,
channel protection, 10-year or 100-year) as identified in the Reference Manuals
or other municipal ordinances are met, unless the MS4 Coordinator grants the
applicant a waiver or the applicant is exempt from such requirements.
      (2)   In addition, if hydrologic or topographic conditions warrant
greater control than that provided by the minimum control requirements, the MS4
Coordinator reserves the right to impose any and all additional requirements
deemed necessary to control the volume, timing, and rate of runoff.
   (B)   Site design feasibility.
      (1)   Stormwater management practices for a site shall be chosen based on
the physical conditions of the site. Among the factors that should be
considered:
         (a)   Topography;
         (b)   Maximum drainage area;
         (c)   Depth to water table;
         (d)   Soils;
         (e)   Slopes;
         (f)   Terrain; and
         (g)   Location in relation to environmentally sensitive features or
ultra-urban areas.
      (2)   Applicants shall consult the Reference Manuals referred to in §
52.05 and other ordinances for guidance on the factors that determine site
design feasibility when selecting a stormwater management practice.
   (C)   Conveyance issues.  All stormwater management practices shall be
designed to convey stormwater to allow for the maximum removal of pollutants
and reduction in flow velocities. This shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Maximizing of flow paths from inflow points to outflow points;
      (2)   Protection of inlet and outfall structures;
      (3)   Elimination of erosive flow velocities;
      (4)   Providing of under-drain systems, where applicable.
   (D)   Treatment/geometry conditions. All stormwater management practices
shall be designed to capture and treat stormwater runoff according to the
specifications outlined in the Reference Manuals and other ordinances. These
specifications will designate the water quantity and quality treatment criteria
that apply to an approved stormwater management practice.
   (E)   Landscaping plan requirements. All stormwater management practices
must have a landscaping plan detailing both the vegetation and the manager in
which and by whom this vegetation shall be maintained.
   (F)   Maintenance agreements. All stormwater treatment practices shall have
an enforceable operation and maintenance agreement to ensure the system
functions as designed. This agreement will include any and all maintenance
easements required to access and inspect the stormwater treatment practices,
and to perform routine maintenance as necessary to ensure proper functioning of
the stormwater treatment practice. In addition, a legally binding covenant
specifying the parties responsible for the proper maintenance of all stormwater
treatment practices shall be secured prior to issuance of any permits for land
disturbance activities.
   (G)   Non-structural stormwater practices. The use of non-structural
stormwater treatment practices is encouraged in order to minimize the reliance
on structural practices. Credit in the form of reductions in the amount of
stormwater that must be managed can be earned through the use of non-structural
practices that reduce the generation of stormwater from the site. These non-
structural practices are explained in detail in the Reference Manuals referred
to in §
52.05 and/or by the MS4 Coordinator. Applicants wishing to obtain credit for
use of non-structural practices must ensure that these practices are documented
and remain unaltered by subsequent property owners.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.12  REQUIREMENTS FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Stormwater Management Plan required for all developments.
      (1)   No application for development will be approved unless it includes
a Stormwater Management Plan detailing how runoff and associated water quality
impacts resulting from the development will be controlled or managed. This plan
must be prepared by an individual approved by the county and must indicate
whether stormwater will be managed on-site or off-site and, if on-site, the
general location and type of practices.
      (2)   The Stormwater Management Plan(s) shall be referred for comment to
all other interested agencies, and any comments must be addressed in the final
approved Stormwater Management Plan. This final plan must be signed by a
licensed Professional Engineer (PE), who will verify that the design of all
stormwater management practices meet the submittal requirements outlined in the
Submittal Checklist provided by the MS4 Coordinator. No land-disturbing
activities shall commence until a satisfactory final Stormwater Management
Plan, or a waiver thereof, shall have undergone a review and been approved by
the MS4 Coordinator after determining that the plan or waiver is consistent
with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Stormwater Management Plan Requirements.
      (1)   A  Stormwater Management Plan shall be required will all permit
applications and will include sufficient information (such as maps, hydrologic
calculations and the like) to evaluate the stormwater effects of the project,
the potential impacts of all proposed development of the site, both present and
future, on the water resources, and the effectiveness and acceptability of the
measures proposed for managing stormwater generated at the project.
      (2)   The intent of this planning process is to determine the type of
stormwater management measures necessary for the proposed project; and ensure
adequate planning for management of stormwater runoff from future development.
To accomplish this goal, the following information shall be included in the
Stormwater Management Plan:
         (a)   A map (or maps) indicating the location of existing and proposed
buildings, roads, parking areas, utilities, structural stormwater management
and sediment control facilities. The map(s) will also clearly show proposed
land use with tabulation of the percentage of surface area to be adapted to
various uses; drainage patterns; locations of utilities, roads and easements;
the limits of clearing and grading. A written description of the site plan and
justification of proposed changes in natural conditions may also be required.
         (b)   Sufficient engineering analysis to show that the proposed
stormwater management measures are capable of controlling runoff from the site
in compliance with this subchapter and the specifications of the Reference
Manuals.
         (c)   A written or graphic inventory of the natural resources at the
site and surrounding areaas it exists prior to the commencement of the project
and a description of the watershed and its relation to the project site. This
description should include a discussion of soil conditions, forest cover,
topography, wetlands, and other native vegetative areas on the site. Particular
attention should be paid to environmentally sensitive features that provide
particular opportunities or constraints for development.
         (d)   A written description of the required maintenance burden for any
proposed stormwater management facility.
         (e)   The MS4 Coordinator may also require a Stormwater Management
Plan to consider the maximum development potential of a site under existing
zoning, regardless of whether the applicant presently intends to develop the
site to its maximum potential.
         (f)   For development or redevelopment occurring on a previously
developed site, an applicant shall be required to include within the Stormwater
Management Plan measures for controlling existing stormwater runoff discharges
from the site in accordance with the standards of this subchapter to the
maximum extent practicable.
         (g)   Contact information. The name, address, and telephone number of
all persons having a legal interest in the property and the tax reference
number and parcel number of the property or properties affected.
         (h)   Topographic base map. A “one inch equals 200 feet” topographic
base map of the site which extends a minimum of 100 feet beyond the limits of
the proposed development and indicates existing surface water drainage
including streams, ponds, culverts, ditches, and wetlands; current land use
including all existing structures; locations of utilities, roads, and
easements; and significant natural and manmade features not otherwise shown.
         (i)   Calculations. Hydrologic and hydraulic design calculations for
the predevelopment and post-development conditions for the design
stormsspecified in this subchapter. Such calculations shall include:
            1.   Description of the design storm frequency, intensity and
duration;
            2.   Time of concentration;
            3.   Soil curve numbers or runoff coefficients;
            4.   Peak runoff rates and total runoff volumes for each watershed
area;
            5.    Infiltration rates, where applicable;
            6.   Culvert capacities;
            7.   Flow velocities;
            8.   Data on the increase in rate and volume of runoff for the
design storms referenced in the Reference Manuals or other ordinances; and
            9.   Documentation of sources for all computation methods and field
test results.
         (j)   Soils information.  If a stormwater management control measure
depends on the hydrologic properties of soils (such as infiltration basins),
then a soils report shall be submitted. The soils report shall be based on on-
site boring logs or soil pit profiles. The number and location of required soil
borings or soil test pits shall be determined based on what is needed to
determine the suitability and distribution of soil types present at the
location of the control measure.
         (k)   Maintenance and Repair Plan.  The design and planning of all
stormwater management facilities shall include detailed maintenance and repair
procedures to ensure their continued function. These plans will identify the
parts or components of a stormwater management facility that need to be
maintained and the equipment and skills or training necessary. Provisions for
the periodic review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the  maintenance
program and the need for revisions or additional maintenance procedures shall
be included in the plan.
         (l)   Landscaping Plan. The applicant must present a detailed plan for
management of vegetation at the site after construction is finished, including
who will be responsible for the maintenance of vegetation at the site and what
practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is
preserved. This plan must be prepared by a registered Engineer, Landscape
Architect, or by the Soil Conservation District.
         (m)   Maintenance easements. The applicant must ensure access to all
stormwater treatment practices at the site for the purpose of inspection and
repair by securing all the maintenance easements needed on a permanent basis.
These easements will be recorded with the plan and will remain in effect even
with the transfer of title to subsequent property owners.
         (n)   Maintenance agreement. The applicant must execute an easement
and an inspection and maintenance agreement binding on all subsequent owners of
land served by an on-site stormwater management measure in accordance with the
specifications of this subchapter.
         (o)   Erosion and sediment control plans for construction of
stormwater management measures.  The applicant must prepare an erosion and
sediment control plan for all construction activities related to implementing
any on-site stormwater management practices.
         (p)   Other permits. The applicant shall assure that all other
applicable permits have been acquired for the site prior to approval of the
final stormwater management plan.
      (3)   Stormwater Management Concept Plan. If deemed necessary by the MS4
Coordinator, a Stormwater Management Concept Plan can be required to be
submitted by the developer, prior to the preparation of a Stormwater Management
Plan, to document for the MS4 Coordinator the overall impact and the intent of
the type(s) of stormwater management measures necessary for the proposed
project, on a conceptual basis.
      (4)   Performance bond/security.
         (a)   The county requires the submittal of a performance security or
bond prior to issuance of a permit in order to insure that the stormwater
practices are installed by the permit holder as required by the approved
stormwater management plan. The amount of the installation performance security
shall be the total estimated construction cost of the stormwater management
practices approved under the permit, plus 25%. The performance security shall
contain forfeiture provisions for failure to complete work specified in the
stormwater management plan.
         (b)   The installation performance security shall be released in full
only upon submission of "as-built plans" and written certification by a
registered professional engineer that the stormwater practice has been
installed in accordance with the approved plan and other applicable provisions
of this subchapter. The MS4 Coordinator will make a final inspection of the
stormwater practice to ensure that it is in compliance with the approved plan
and the provisions of this subchapter. Provisions for a partial pro-rata
release of the performance security based on the completion of various
development stages can be done pursuant to a partial release determination made
by the MS4 Coordinator.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.13  CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of construction commencement.
      (1)   The applicant must notify the MS4 Coordinator in advance before the
commencement of construction. Regular inspections of the stormwater management
system construction shall be conducted by the staff of the county or certified
by a professional engineer or his or her designee who has been approved by the
MS4 Coordinator. All inspections shall be documented and written reports
prepared that contain the following information:
         (a)   The date and location of the inspection;
         (b)   Whether construction is in compliance with the approved
stormwater management plan;
         (c)   Variations from the approved construction specifications; and
         (d)   Any violations that exist.
      (2)   If any violations are found, the property owners shall be notified
in writing of the nature of the violation and the required corrective actions.
No added work shall proceed until any violations are corrected and all work
previously completed has received approval by the MS4 Coordinator.
   (B)   As-built plans.  All applicants are required to submit actual "as-
built" plans for any stormwater management practices located on-site after
final construction is completed. The plan must show the final design
specifications for all stormwater management facilities and must be certified
by a Professional Engineer. A final inspection by the MS4 Coordinator is
required before the release of any performance securities can occur.
   (C)   Landscaping and stabilization requirements.
      (1)   Any area of land from which the natural vegetative cover has been
either partially or wholly cleared or removed by development activities shall
be revegetated within ten days from the substantial completion of such clearing
and construction. The following criteria shall apply to revegetation efforts:
         (a)   Reseeding must be done with an annual or perennial cover crop
accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient
coverage to control erosion until such time as the cover crop is established
over 90% of the seeded area.
         (b)   Replanting with native woody and herbaceous vegetation must be
accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient
coverage to control erosion until the plantings are established and are capable
of controlling erosion.
         (c)   Any area of revegetation must exhibit survival of a minimum of
75% of the cover crop throughout the year immediately following revegetation.
Revegetation must be repeated in successive years until the minimum 75%
survival for one year is achieved.
      (2)   In addition to the above requirements, a landscaping plan must be
submitted with the final design describing the vegetative stabilization and
management techniques to be used at a site after construction is completed.
This plan will explain not only how the site will be stabilized after
construction, but who will be responsible for the maintenance of vegetation at
the site and what practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative
cover is preserved.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.14  MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF STORMWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Maintenance easement.  Prior to the issuance of any permit that has a
stormwater management facility as one of the requirements of the permit, the
applicant or owner of the site must execute a maintenance easement agreement
that shall be binding on all subsequent owners of land served by the stormwater
management facility. The agreement shall provide for access to the facility at
reasonable times for periodic inspection by the Sanitary Districts of LaPorte
or Michigan City or their contractor or agent, and for regular or special
assessments of property owners to ensure that the facility is maintained in
proper working condition to meet design standards and any other provisions
established by this subchapter. The easement agreement shall be recorded in the
land records.
   (B)   Maintenance of covenants.
      (1)   Maintenance of all stormwater management facilities shall be
ensured through the creation of a formal maintenance covenant that must be
approved by the Sanitary Districts of LaPorte or Michigan City and recorded
into the land record prior to final plan approval. As part of the covenant, a
schedule shall be developed for when and how often maintenance will occur to
ensure proper function of the stormwater management facility. The covenant
shall also include plans for periodic inspections to ensure proper performance
of the facility between scheduled cleanouts.
      (2)   The Sanitary Districts, in lieu of a maintenance covenant, may
accept dedication of any existing or future stormwater management facility for
maintenance, provided such facility meets all the requirements of this
subchapter and includes adequate and perpetual access and sufficient area, by
easement or otherwise, for inspection and regular maintenance.
   (C)   Requirements for maintenance covenants. All stormwater management
facilities must undergo, at the minimum, an annual inspection to document
maintenance and repair needs to ensure compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter and accomplishment of its purposes. These needs may include removal
of silt, litter and other debris from all catch basins, inlets and drainage
pipes; grass cutting and vegetation removal; and necessary replacement of
landscape vegetation. Any maintenance needs found must be addressed in a timely
manner, as determined by the MS4 Coordinator, and the inspection and
maintenance requirement may be increased as deemed necessary to ensure proper
functioning of the stormwater management facility.
   (D)   Inspection of stormwater facilities. Inspection programs may be
established on any reasonable basis, including but not limited to: routine
inspections; random inspections; inspections based upon complaints or other
notice of possible violations; inspection of drainage basins or areas
identified as higher than typical sources of sediment or other contaminants or
pollutants; inspections of businesses or industries of a type associated with
higher than usual discharges of contaminants or pollutants or with discharges
of a type which are more likely than the typical discharge to cause violations
of state or federal water or sediment quality standards or the NPDES stormwater
permit; and joint inspection with other agencies inspecting under environmental
or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are not limited to: reviewing
maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges, surface water,
groundwater, and material or water in drainage control facilities; and
evaluating the condition of drainage control facilities and other stormwater
treatment practices.
   (E)   Right-of-entry for inspection.  When any new drainage control facility
is installed on private property, or when any new connection is made between
private property and a public drainage control system, sanitary sewer or
combined sewer, the property owner shall grant to the Sanitary District, or its
designee, the right to enter the property at reasonable times and in a
reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection. This includes the right to
enter a property when it has a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of
this subchapter is occurring or has occurred, and to enter when necessary for
abatement of a public nuisance or correction of a violation of this subchapter.
   (F)   Records of installation and maintenance activities.  Parties
responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management
facility shall keep records of the installation of all maintenance and repairs,
and shall retain the records for at least three years. These records shall be
made available to the MS4 Coordinator during inspection of the facility and at
other reasonable times upon request.
   (G)   Failure to maintain practices. If a responsible party fails or refuses
to meet the requirements of the maintenance covenant, the Sanitary District,
after reasonable notice, may correct a violation of the design standards or
maintenance needs by performing all necessary work to place the facility in
proper working condition. In the event that the stormwater management facility
becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the Sanitary District, or
its designee, shall notify the party responsible for maintenance of the
stormwater management facility in writing. Upon receipt of that notice, the
responsible person shall have three days to effect maintenance and repair of
the facility in an approved manner. After proper notice, the Sanitary District
may assess the owner(s) of the facility for the cost of the repair work and any
penalties; and the cost of the work shall be a lien on the property, or
prorated against the beneficial users of the property, and may be placed on the
tax bill and collected as ordinary taxes by the Sanitary District.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.15  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally. The County Building Commissioner, through the MS4
Operators, and MS4 Coordinator, is hereby authorized to implement and monitor
all aspects of this subchapter.
   (B)   Project-specific administration. The MS4 Coordinator shall be
responsible for implementation and monitoring compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.16  ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violations. Any development activity that is commenced or is conducted
contrary to this subchapter, may be restrained by injunction or otherwise
abated in a manner provided by law.
   (B)   When the MS4 Coordinator determines that an activity is not being
carried out in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter, it shall
issue a written notice of violation to the owner of the property. The notice of
violation shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or applicant;
      (2)   The address when available or a description of the building,
structure or land upon which the violation is occurring;
      (3)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
      (4)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed;
      (5)   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed by
filing a written notice of appeal within 15 days of service of notice of
violation.
   (C)   Stop Work Orders. Persons receiving a notice of violation will be
required to halt all construction activities. This STOP WORK ORDER will be in
effect until the MS4 Coordinator confirms that the development activity is in
compliance and the violation has been satisfactorily addressed. Failure to
address a notice of violation in a timely manner can result in civil and/or
monetary penalties in accordance with the enforcement measures authorized in
this subchapter.
   (D)   Civil penalties. In addition to or as an alternative to any penalty
provided herein or by law, any person who violates the provisions of this
subchapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $2,500 for each
violation. Such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each day
during which the violation occurs or continues.
   (E)   Restoration of lands. Any violator may be required to restore land to
its undisturbed condition. In the event that restoration is not undertaken
within a reasonable time after notice, the Sanitary District of LaPorte or
Michigan City may take necessary corrective action, the cost of which shall
become a lien upon the property until paid.
   (F)   Holds on occupation permits. Occupation permits will not be granted
until a correction to all stormwater violations have been made and accepted by
the MS4 Coordinator.
   (G)   Appeal of decisions. The interpretation or implementation of the Rule
5 or Rule 13 program requirements by the MS4 Coordinator may be appealed to the
MS4 Advisory Committee, in writing and within five days of the interpretation
or implementation decision. The appeal will be decided by the MS4 Advisory
Committee within ten days. The appeal process does not stay a stop work order
issued under division (C) above.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 4-17-07)
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
§ 52.25  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to meet the requirements of IDEM Rule 327
IAC 15-13 (Rule 13).
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.26  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.   Activities subject to NPDES Construction Permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre
or more. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, and demolition.
   COUNTY. The County of LaPorte, Indiana.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
52.28(A)(2)(a) through (d).
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.  Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but
not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by the county; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by the county.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.  Activities subject to NPDES industrial Permits as
defined in 40 CFR, § 122.26 (b)(14).
   MS4.  Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System as defined in 327 IAC 15-5 and
327 IAC 15-13.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES)STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the EPA or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group, or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE.  Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON.  Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal conform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES. Means any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land
whether improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM.  Publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER.  Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the Best
Management Practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the  actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to Stormwater, Stormwater Conveyance
Systems, and/or Receiving Waters to the Maximum Extent Practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.27  APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
the county.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.28  DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including but not
limited to pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
stormwater.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this subchapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater de-
watering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the county as being necessary
to protect public health and safety.
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the county prior to the time of the test.
         (d)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management (IDEM) or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (US
EPA), provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements
of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and
provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm
drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illegal connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this subchapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.29  SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations.  The
county may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when
such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment,or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United
States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an
emergency, the county may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or
minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to minimize
danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter may have his or her MS4
access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The county will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its
MS4 access. The violator may petition the county for a reconsideration and
hearing.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
county.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.30  INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the county prior to the allowing a discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.31  MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The county shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities
subject to regulation under this subchapter as often as may be necessary to
determine compliance with this subchapter. If a discharger has security
measures in force which require proper identification and clearance before
entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements
to allow access to the county.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the county ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
      (3)   The county shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the county, or its designee, to
conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
      (4)   The county has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)    Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the county and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the county access to a permitted
facility are a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this
subchapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the county reasonable access to the permitted facility for
the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this
subchapter.
      (7)   If the county has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which stormwater is discharged, and is able to demonstrate probable cause
to believe that there may be a violation of this subchapter, or that there is a
need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program designed to verify compliance with this subchapter or any order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the
community, then the county may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.32  ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Requirement to prevent, control and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of Best Management Practices. This ordinance approves the requirements
of the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) Indiana Stormwater
Quality Manual, the U.S. Department of Agriculture Urban Watershed Forestry
Manual and the Indiana Drainage Handbook, as well as other approved resources
identifying Best Management Practices for any activity, operation, or facility
which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the
storm drain system, or waters of the U.S.
   The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall
provide, at his or own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge
of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system
or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs.
Further, any person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may be,
the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said
person's expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing
the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent
practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section.
These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as
necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
   (B)   Watercourse protection. Every person owning property through which a
watercourse passes, or such person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part
of the watercourse within the property free of trash, debris, excessive
vegetation, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or
significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition,
the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within
or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard
to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
   (C)   Notification of spills.
      (1)   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release
of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or
pollutants discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or water of the
U.S., said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release.
      (2)   In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, said person
shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via
emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-hazardous
materials, said person shall notify the authorized enforcement agency in person
or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day. Notifications in
person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to
the County within three business days of the phone notice.
      (3)   If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial
or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.33  ADMINISTRATION.
   The Building Commissioner, through the MS4 Operators and County MS4
Coordinator, is hereby authorized to implement and monitor all aspects of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.34  ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this subchapter
are minimum standards; therefore this subchapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there wilt be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-17-07)
§ 52.35  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the county finds that a person has violated a prohibition
or failed to meet a requirement of this subchapter, the authorized enforcement
agency may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible
person. Such notice may require without limitation:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (d)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (e)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
are required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by the county or a contractor and the expense
thereof shall be charged to the violator.
   (B)   Appeal of notice of violation.  Any person receiving a Notice of
Violation may appeal the determination of the county. The notice of appeal must
be received within ten days from the date of the Notice of Violation. Hearing
on the appeal before the appropriate authority shall take place within 15 days
from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the county
shall be final.
   (C)   Enforcement measures after appeal.  If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Notice of Violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days of the decision of the county,
then representatives of the county shall enter upon the subject private
property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the
violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person,
owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the
county or its designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes
set forth above.
   (D)   Cost of abatement of the violation.  Within 15 days after abatement of
the violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of
abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may file a
written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment within ten days. If
the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by the decision
of the county or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the
charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall
constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment, as well as
any costs and fees incurred.
   (E)   Injunctive relief.  It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter. If
a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
subchapter, the county may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
   (F)   Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties,
and remedies authorized by this subchapter, the county may impose upon a
violator, alternative compensatory actions such as storm drain stenciling,
attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, and the like.
   (G)   Violations deemed a public nuisance.  In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter is a threat to public
health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and maybe
summarily abated or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action
to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be
taken.
   (H)   Civil penalties.  In addition to or as an alternative to any penalty
provided herein or by law, any person who violates the provisions of this
subchapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 for each
violation. Such person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each day
during which the violation occurs or continues.
   (I)   Remedies not exclusive.  The remedies listed in this subchapter are
not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal,
state or local law and it is within the discretion of the County or designee to
seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 4-17-07)
CHAPTER 53:  WATER WELL AND WATER QUALITY
Section
   
53.01   Adoption of state law
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Applicability
   
53.04   Licensing and registration of well drillers and pump installation
   
53.05   Placement of water wells where municipal water is available
   
53.06   Water well construction permit
   
53.07   Water well installation requirements
   
53.08   Water well minimum separation distances
   
53.09   Submission of water quality report and well log
   
53.10   Property transfer, inspections, certifications and testing
   
53.11   Violation notices
   
53.12   Validity
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   All rules and regulations of I.C. 25-39, Indiana Administrative Code Title
312 Article 13 and Indiana State Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 13,
Residential Onsite Sewage System Rule 410 IAC 6-8.3, as amended from time to
time, are hereby incorporated by reference and said copies are available at the
LaPorte County Health Department.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)
§ 53.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To terminate operations of a well for water supply, monitoring,
dewatering or geothermal purpose and to restore the site of the well in a
manner that will protect ground water resources from contamination.
   CONTAMINATION. The degradation of natural water quality as a result of human
activities.
   DISINFECTION. The process of destroying pathogenic microorganisms, such as
coliform bacteria.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The LaPorte County Health Department Health Officer or his/
her duly authorized representative.
   NON -POTABLE WATER WELL. A well not to be used for drinking or culinary
purpose including, but not limited to, irrigation wells, geothermal wells,
monitoring wells, dewatering wells, waterscape wells, and fire suppression
wells.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL/NON-PUBLIC WELL. Any well used to supply potable water that
is not a public well or a residential well. Usually these are wells at
commercial facilities where the water is used by less than 25 people or less
than 60 days per year.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, company, or partnership.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is suitable for drinking or culinary purpose.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any wells, reservoirs, lakes, rivers, source of supply,
pumps, mains, pipes, facilities and structures through which water is obtained,
treated as may be required and provided to the public through a water
distribution system and that serves at least 25 persons per day for  at least
60 days per year for drinking, domestic use, or other purposes, including state
owned facilities, or that has at least 15 service connections.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM (PWS). Any collection, treatment, storage, or
distribution facility used primarily to provide water to a public water supply.
   PUBLIC WELL. Any well serving a public water system.
   PUMP INSTALLER. Any person that installs a pump for a well or services a
pump for a well.
   PUMP REPLACEMENT. Replacing the pump on a well.
   RESIDENTIAL WELL. Any privately owned well intended to be used for potable
water in either a one or two family dwelling.
   ON-SITE SEPTIC SYSTEM. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
receiving, treating and disposing of sewage.
   TEMPORARY WELL. A well installed to monitor or collect hydrogeological or
engineering data.
   WATER WELL. Any excavation, whether drilled, bored, driven, jetted, or dug
for the purpose of obtaining water from the ground, or returning water to the
ground, or for the purpose of testing the quantity or quality of such water.
   WELL DRILLER. Any individual, partnership, firm or corporation that
produces, or contracts to construct a well.
   WELL DRILLING. Any operation that produces or attempts to produce a well.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)
§ 53.03  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Potable wells. Wells used for drinking water or culinary purpose.
Under this chapter there are the following three types of potable water wells:
      (1)   Residential wells.
      (2)   Non-residential/non-public wells.
      (3)   Public wells.
   (B)   Non-potable wells. All wells that are not to be used for drinking or
culinary purposes including, but not limited to, irrigation wells, geothermal
wells, monitoring wells, dewatering wells, waterscape wells, and fire
suppression wells.
   (C)   Temporary wells. This chapter does not apply to wells installed to
monitor or collect hydrogeological or engineering data.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)
§ 53.04  LICENSING AND REGISTRATION OF WELL DRILLERS AND PUMP INSTALLATION.
   (A)   State license. Any person that installs or abandons potable or non-
potable water wells, performs a well repair/replacement, or pump replacement in
LaPorte County shall be licensed by the State of Indiana in accordance with
I.C. 25-39 et seq. "The Water Well Drillers Law."
   (B)   County registration. Any person that installs or abandons potable or
non-potable water wells, performs a well repair/replacement, or pump
replacement shall obtain an annual registration from the Health Department. The
registration fee will be established by the LaPorte County Commissioners. A
copy of the applicant's state license shall be provided when applying for a
registration. The application shall be on a form provided by the Health
Department. The registration shall expire on December 31st of each year. A
licensed well driller shall be present during all well drilling or well
abandonment activities.
   (C)   Surety bond. Each person applying for a well driller/pump installation
registration shall provide a surety bond payable to the LaPorte County Health
Department and pay the amount established by the LaPorte County Commissioners.
All such bonds shall expire and be renewed on or before December 31st of each
year.
   (D)   Suspension. The Health Officer may suspend, repeal, or withhold a
registration from any person who is more than 30 days late in making full
payment of a penalty described in §
53.99.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)
§ 53.05  PLACEMENT OF WATER WELLS WHERE MUNICIPAL WATER IS AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Potable wells.
      (1)   The LaPorte County Plan Commission shall determine when connection
to municipal potable water systems shall be required for newly proposed major
and minor subdivisions.
      (2)   New or replacement potable water wells shall not be installed
within a municipality unless the Health Department receives a written
notification from the appropriate municipal water system stating that they have
no objection to the installation of the well.
      (3)   A potable water well permit will not be issued for a residential
well for a property outside of a municipality if municipal water lines exist
immediately adjacent to a property boundary.
      (4)   For a non-residential/non-public or public well: if the cost of
engineering, materials, and installation of municipal water service to a
business, less available public funding, does not exceed 150% of the cost of
engineering, material and installation of an onsite well based on the average
well depth of recent wells installed in the area where the facility is located,
the extension of public water service to the facility is required and shall be
paid by the property owner.
      (5)   If a municipal public water system is or becomes available within
300 feet of a residential/ non-public or public well system, the residential,
non-public, or public well may be required to make a connection to said
municipal public water system and use its water exclusively as a potable water
source if the Health Officer determines it is necessary to protect public
health or groundwater. Upon such connection, the existing water well shall be
properly disconnected and said well shall be properly abandoned unless the well
has been approved for other uses by the Health Department.
   (B)   Non-potable wells.
      (1)   New or replacement non-potable wells (except monitoring,
geothermal, and dewatering wells) shall not be installed within a municipality
unless the Health Department receives a written notification from the
appropriate municipal water system that they have no objection to the
installation of the well.
      (2)   No portion of the non-potable water system may be connected to any
portion of a potable water system.
      (3)   The Health Department may deny an application for a non-potable
well if it determines that the well will adversely impact the quality of the
groundwater or an existing water user.
      (4)   The Health Department may issue a variance from the requirements
when there are circumstances that, in the opinion of the Health Officer, makes
the connection to a municipal water system unreasonable.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06  WATER WELL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (A)   The property owner or his/her designated representative shall obtain a
permit from the Health Department prior to the construction of a water well. An
application must be submitted to the Health Department. The application shall
include:
      (1)   A drawing that includes the following:
         (a)   Existing and proposed structures;
         (b)   Existing and proposed on-site septic system;
         (c)   Public ways;
         (d)   Utility right-of-way;
         (e)   Property lines; and
         (f)   Neighbors on-site septic system.
      (2)   Include a non-refundable permit fee, as prescribed by the LaPorte
County Commissioners, made payable to the LaPorte County Health Department.
   (B)   The proposed location of the well shall be clearly marked on the
property where it is to be installed in the field with a stake at the time of
the onsite inspection.
   (C)   The permit shall be void if the installation is not completed within
one year of permit issuance.
   (D)   The permit shall be void if the site is changed/altered after the
issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07  WATER WELL INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Construction requirement for potable wells. The construction of all potable
wells in LaPorte County shall be in accordance with the applicable requirements
of 312 IAC 13 the ISDH Bulletin S.E. 13, "On-Site Water Supply and Wastewater
Disposal for Public and Commercial Establishments."
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08  WATER WELL MINIMUM SEPARATION DISTANCES.
Potential Pollution Type of Potable Water Wells
Source              Residential Wells Non-Residential Non-Public Public Wells
Potential Pollution       Type of Potable Water Wells
Source                    Residential Wells Non-Residential Non- Public Wells
                                            Public
Any building overhang to
the horizontal center of  5 feet            5 feet               5 feet
the well
Building foundation       10 feet           10 feet              10 feet
Independent gear water
drain, rainwater          10 feet           10 feet              10 feet
downspout, foundation
drain, sump pump pit
Sanitary sewer connected  15 feet           15 feet              15 feet
to foundation drain
Storm sewer connected to  15 feet           15 feet              15 feet
foundation drain
Property lines - also
maintain minimum required
distance from any source  15 feet           15 feet              15 feet
of contamination on
adjoining properties
Private residential
underground fuel oil      100 feet          100 feet             100 feet
tanks
Stream, lake, pond, or
ditch, river, shoreline   25 feet           25 feet              25 feet
or drainage tile
Sanitary sewers, force    50 feet           100 feet             200 feet
mains and drains
Subsoil drain (absorption
field perimeter drain),   50 feet           50 feet              200 feet
sewer pump, lift station
Privies and outhouses (to
be constructed and
maintained in accordance  100 feet          100 feet             200 feet
with ISBH Bulletin No.
S.E. 11 - The Sanitary
Privy)
Storm sewers              25 feet           100 feet             200 feet
Septic and aerobic
digestion tanks and       50 feet           100 feet             200 feet
absorption fields
Seepage pits              100 feet          100 feet             200 feet
Stables, feeding pens,
livestock, runs, manure   100 feet          100 feet             200 feet
piles, etc.
Confined feeding          200 feet          200 feet             200 feet
operation
Geothermal heat pump
system diffusion well for
a system using less than  50 feet           100 feet             200 feet
25,000 gallons per day
(17.4 gpm)
Geothermal heat pump
system diffusion well for
a system using more than  100 feet          100 feet             200 feet
25,000 gallons per day
(17.4 gpm)
Minimum separation
distance between
geothermal heat pump      100 feet          100 feet             200 feet
systems and sewer/septic
tanks
Above ground storage,
handling, delivery or     100 feet          100 feet             200 feet
packaging areas for
regulated substances
Underground storage of    100 feet          100 feet             200 feet
regulated substances
Concrete or membrane-
lined agricultural waste  50 feet           100 feet             200 feet
pits
Earthen agricultural
waste pits, lagoons and   500 feet          500 feet             500 feet
holding ponds
Composting facility       200 feet          200 feet             200 feet
active area
Land application of       200 feet          200 feet             200 feet
manure
Land application of final
treated wastewater        200 feet          200 feet             200 feet
treatment plant effluent
Land application of       500 feet          500 feet             500 feet
domestic septage disposal
Ridge and furrow waste    500 feet          500 feet             500 feet
disposal site
Injection wells           50 feet           100 feet             200 feet
Septage or treated sludge 500 feet          500 feet             500 feet
disposal area
Sewage treatment lagoons
or wastewater treatment   500 feet          500 feet             500 feet
facility
Existing, closed or
abandoned solid or
hazardous waste disposal  1,000 feet        1,000 feet           1,000 feet
facility (dumps/
landfills)
Construction/demolition
sites, and IDEM
Restricted Waste Site     600 feet          600 feet             1,000 feet
Types 1, 2, and 3 as
defined in 329 IAC 2-2-54
and 329 IAN 2-10
 
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09  SUBMISSION OF WATER QUALITY REPORT AND WELL LOG.
   (A)   Water quality report (bacteria and nitrate).
      (1)   The owner of any potable water well installed under a permit issued
pursuant to this chapter shall have the water analyzed and results submitted to
the Health Department within 30 days of the installation of the well.
      (2)   The water quality report shall include:
         (a)   Address of the property where the sample was taken;
         (b)   Results of the analysis;
         (c)   Detection limits of the analytical methods used;
         (d)   Date of the analysis; and
         (e)   The signature of the person responsible for the analysis.
      (3)   Each new or replacement potable water supply well shall be
analyzed. The analysis shall include the following:
         (a)   Total coliform;
         (b)   E. coli;
         (c)   Nitrate (NO3); and
         (d)   And any other tests as deemed reasonable and ordered by the
Health Officer to the extent that the tests protect against a health threat.
      (4)   If, after its initial analysis the water in a potable water well
exceeds maximum contaminant levels (MCL) for coliforms or E. coli bacteria, it
shall be disinfected again by the well driller or pump installer and resampled.
      (5)   The well driller or pump installer who performed work on the system
shall be responsible for properly disinfecting the water system and for
repeating the disinfection once, if the water exceeds the MCL. The costs and
responsibility of any further disinfecting shall be done by the owner of the
water system unless it has been determined that the water system was not
properly disinfected by the well driller or pump installer.
   (B)   Well log.
      (1)   Within 30 days of the completion of the well, the well driller
shall submit a copy of the Indiana Department of Natural Resource well log,
record of Water Well, State Form 35680 (R5 / 9-04) to the Health Department.
The well log shall also contain the LaPorte County Health Department water well
permit number.
      (2)   The well driller shall also furnish, upon request, any additional
well construction information deemed necessary by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Well abandonment log. The well driller shall provide a well
abandonment log to the Health Officer for any water well abandoned in LaPorte
County.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10  PROPERTY TRANSFER, INSPECTIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND TESTING.
   (A)   Prior to the transfer of ownership of any property in LaPorte County,
potable water wells and septic systems will be inspected.
      (1)   The fee for the property transfer and statement of compliance will
be established by the LaPorte County Commissioners.
      (2)   Properties that are on municipal water and/or sewer will need to
supply the Health Department with a bill for these services. There will be no
fee for a property transfer for properties with municipal water and sewer
services.
      (3)   Property transfer and statement of compliance will be valid for one
year from date of issuance.
   (B)   Septic inspection.
      (1)   Septic system inspections of an existing septic system for the
purpose of a property transfer shall be conducted by an IOWPA certified
inspector.
      (2)   Inspectors shall be registered with the LaPorte County Health
Department and pay a registration fee established by the LaPorte County
Commissioners.
      (3)   Inspectors applying to be registered shall provide a surety bond
established by the LaPorte County Commissioners payable to the LaPorte County
Health Department.
      (4)   The inspector shall submit their report to the LaPorte County
Health Department on a form provided by the department.
      (5)   After review of the submitted report, the Health Officer will make
the determination as to whether or not the system is functioning properly and
is in compliance. A certificate of compliance will be issued if the septic
system found to be functioning properly.
   (C)   Potable water well.
      (1)   Each potable well on the property shall be analyzed by a certified
laboratory for the following contaminates:
         (a)   Total coliform;
         (b)   E. coli,
         (c)   Nitrate (NO3).
      (2)   Any other tests as deemed reasonable and ordered by the Health
Officer to the extent that the tests protect against a health threat.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance will be issued.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)
§ 53.11  VIOLATION NOTICES.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter may be
served by the County Board of Health or the duly appointed Health Officer with
a written order stating the nature of the violation conditions that may
transmit disease and provide a time limit for satisfactory correction thereof.
   (B)   If a person refuses or neglects to obey an order issued under this
section or I.C. 16-20-1-25, proceedings may be instituted in the courts for
enforcement or an order may be enforced by injunction if the action is a
criminal offense and a law enforcement authority with the jurisdiction over the
location where the offense occurred shall be notified.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)
§ 53.12  VALIDITY.
   In the event that any provision of this chapter is ultimately determined by
a court of competent jurisdiction to conflict with any provision of all rules
and regulations of I.C. 25-39, Indiana Administrative Code Title 312 Article 13
and Indiana State Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 13, Residential Onsite
Sewage System Rule 410 IAC 6-8.3, then and in any such event the more strict
provision shall govern.
   (A)   In the event that any provision of this chapter is ultimately
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be pre-empted by any state
or federal law or regulation, this chapter shall automatically be deemed
amended by eliminating the pre-empted provision and incorporating in its place
the applicable provision of the pre-empting state or federal law or regulation.
   (B)   Each provision of this chapter shall be construed as separate to the
end that if any part of it shall be held invalid for any reason the remainder
shall continue in full force and effect.
   (C)   Compliance with the requirements of this chapter does not eliminate
the necessity of complying with any other applicable federal state or local
laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed an ordinance violation and shall be fined not more than $500 for
the first offense and not more than $1,000 for the second offense and for the
third and each subsequent offense by a fine of not more than $2,500. Each day
after the expiration of the time limit as ordered by the County Board of Health
or by the duly appointed Health Officer of the county shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense. Such fines collected shall be accounted for and
shall be transferred to the health fund of the taxing unit.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 11-18-15)
CHAPTER 54:  PROPERTY TRANSFER
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Applicability
   
54.03   General requirements
   
54.04   Septic inspection
   
54.05   Potable water well
   
54.06   Reporting
   
54.07   Violation notices
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. Any person who collects a fee or other compensation to
represent a seller during a transfer of ownership of a property, including, but
not limited to any real estate company, title company, law firm, or their
authorized employee or agent.
   BUYER. A person who has made a written offer to purchase property.
   CLOSING. The act of transferring ownership of a property from one person to
another involving the signing of final documents for the transfer.
   EFFLUENT OR WASTEWATER. Any human excrement or water-carried waste derived
from ordinary living processes.
   GROUNDWATER. Any water below the surface of the ground within the
interstices of the rock and soil. This includes water in both the unsaturated
near-surface soils and the underlying saturated soils and rock.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The LaPorte County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The LaPorte County Health Department Health Officer or his/
her duly authorized representative.
   PERSON. Any individual, trust, joint stock company, federal agency,
corporation (including a government corporation), limited liability company,
partnership, copartnership, company, estate, municipal corporation, city,
school city, town, school town, school district, school corporation, county,
state agency, association, state, commission, political subdivision of a state,
any interstate entity or legal representative.
   POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. The well and distribution system of a residential or
commercial water system used or intended for use for drinking or culinary
purposes.
   PRIMARY POINT OF USE. The most commonly used source(s) of drinking water.
For residences, the primary point of use is usually the kitchen faucet.
   PROPERTY. A residential/commercial property within LaPorte County, Indiana.
   PROPERTY TRANSFER. The conveyance of an interest in a property by any of the
following:
      (1)   A deed or other instrument of conveyance of fee title to property.
      (2)   A lease whose term, if all options were exercised, would be more
than 40 years.
      (3)   A collateral assignment of a beneficial interest in a land trust.
      (4)   An installment contract for the sale of a property.
   SELLER. The owner of the property being sold or their authorized agent.
   SEPTIC INSPECTOR. An independent third party who performs septic inspections
who is IOWPA certified and is registered with the Health Department.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 4-6-16)
§ 54.02  APPLICABILITY.
   These standards and requirements apply to the transfer (see definition of
property transfer) of any property in LaPorte County including all residential
and commercial properties.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 4-6-16)
§ 54.03  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any seller or their
authorized agent to participate in the closing of a property transfer unless
the requirements of this chapter and these standards and requirements have been
met.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person or their
authorized agent to participate in the closing of a property transfer to
provide false information to the Health Department concerning the transfer of
the ownership of a property.
   (C)   If the property has an on-site septic system or potable water well,
the seller/buyer or their authorized agent shall have the septic system
inspected and potable water tested prior to closing the property transfer and
shall provide the results of the inspection and tests to the buyer and the
Health Department.
   (D)   Properties that are on municipal water and/or sewer will need to
supply the Health Department with a bill for these services or an affidavit.
There will be no fee for a property transfer for properties with municipal
water and sewer services.
   (E)   The Health Department may refuse to accept data or information from
any party found to repeatedly violate this chapter.
   (F)   The fee for the property transfer and statement of compliance will be
established by the LaPorte County Commissioners.
   (G)   Property transfer and statement of compliance will be valid for one
year from date of issuance.
   (H)   The seller/buyer or their authorized agent shall have the inspection
and tests described herein performed and shall submit a property transfer
application form and all applicable fees to the Health Department according to
the schedule established in §
54.06.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 4-6-16)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04  SEPTIC INSPECTION.
   (A)   Septic system inspections of an existing septic system for the purpose
of a property transfer shall be conducted by an IOWPA certified inspector.
   (B)   The septic inspector shall obtain a copy of the most recent drawing of
the existing septic system from the Health Department and shall attach the
drawing to the inspection report. The septic inspector shall also prepare a
sketch showing the location of the septic system and well if the conditions
observed in the field are different than the drawing obtained from the Health
Department or if the Health Department does not have a current drawing of the
septic system.
   (C)   Inspectors shall be registered with the LaPorte County Health
Department and pay a registration fee established by the LaPorte County
Commissioners.
   (D)   Inspectors applying to be registered shall provide a surety bond
established by the LaPorte County Commissioners payable to the LaPorte County
Health Department.
   (E)   The inspector shall submit their report to the LaPorte County Health
Department on a form provided by the Department.
   (F)   The Health Department may issue an appropriate order to repair,
replace, or clean any system or part of a system that has failed, is in
violation of applicable public health codes, or is threat to ground water,
surface water or public health.
   (G)   Any person repairing or replacing a septic system or part of a system
shall obtain the appropriate permit from the Health Department.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 4-6-16)
§ 54.05  POTABLE WATER WELL.
   (A)   Each potable well on the property shall be analyzed by a certified
laboratory for the following contaminants:
      (1)   Total coliform
      (2)   E. coli
      (3)   Nitrate (NO3)
   (B)   Any additional tests as deemed reasonable and ordered by the Health
Officer to the extent that the tests protect against a health threat.
   (C)   The laboratory shall report the results of the water analysis along
with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Drinking Water Standard so that
it is clear to the lay person whether the water meets standards.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 4-6-16)
§ 54.06  REPORTING.
   Septic system inspections and water tests should be performed as early as
possible in the property transfer process.
   (A)   The following must be received by the prospective buyer(s) prior to or
at closing:
      (1)   A copy of all water analyses as defined in §
54.05(A) or a copy of the water bill or a letter from the municipality as
defined in §
54.03(D).
      (2)   A copy of the septic inspection report as defined in §
54.04(A) and (B) or a copy of the sewer bill or a letter from the municipality
as defined in §
54.03(D).
   (B)   The following information must be received by the Health Department
not later than five days after the date of closing.
      (1)   A copy of all water analyses as defined in §
54.05(A) or a copy of the water bill or a letter from the municipality as
defined in §
54.03(D).
      (2)   A copy of the septic inspection report as defined in §
54.04(A) and (B) or a copy of the sewer bill or a letter from the municipality
as defined in §
54.03(D).
      (3)   A completed property transfer application form.
      (4)   The fee designated by the County Commissioners.
   (C)   Health Department statement of compliance.
      (1)   Upon receipt of all required information and the completion of all
required actions by the seller, the Health Department shall issue a certificate
of compliance or non-compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the
requirements to the seller or their authorized agent.
      (2)   A certificate of compliance issued for either a septic system or
water well does not guarantee its continued future performance or operation.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 4-6-16)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07  VIOLATION NOTICES.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter may be
served by the County Board of Health or the duly appointed Health Officer with
a written order stating the nature of the violation conditions that may
transmit disease and provide a time limit for satisfactory correction thereof.
   (B)   If a person refuses or neglects to obey an order issued under this
section or I.C. 16-20-1-25, proceedings may be instituted in the courts for
enforcement or an order may be enforced by injunction if the action is a
criminal offense and a law enforcement authority with the jurisdiction over the
location where the offense occurred shall be notified.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 4-6-16)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed an ordinance violation and shall be fined not more than $500 for
the first offense and not more than $1,000 for the second offense and for the
third and each subsequent offense by a fine of not more than $2,500. Each day
after the expiration of the time limit as ordered by the County Board of Health
or by the duly appointed Health Officer of the county shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense. Such fines collected shall be accounted for and
shall be transferred to the health fund of the taxing unit.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 4-6-16)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   SNOWMOBILES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
   
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Obstruction free zone
   
70.02   Utility placement and maintenance
Traffic Regulations in Unincorporated Areas
   
70.15   Role of County Highway Department Supervisor
   
70.16   Violations
   
70.17   Overweight and oversize permits; fees
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Permits for locating utility lines along county right-of-way, see §
37.78
   Traffic and parking regulations in parks, see §§
93.50 through
93.54
Statutory reference:
   Recovery actions for damages to bridges and highways, see I.C. 9-20-7 et
seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  OBSTRUCTION FREE ZONE.
   (A)   The County Highway Department is hereby directed to enforce the
following requirements.
      (1)   Any object within the obstruction free zone of any county road, or
any road to be accepted by the county, shall meet the requirements of the U.S.
Postal Service as well as the obstruction free zone regulation of the County
Highway Department, hereinafter referred to as the Highway Department.
      (2)   Objects not meeting these regulations may be found to be road
hazards, including, but not limited to, those objects presently located within
the obstruction free zone.  Any object that the county finds to be hazardous
shall be removed by the owner upon notification by the county.  Specifications
for this notification can be found within the referenced county regulation.
      (3)   All objects constructed or placed within the obstruction free zone,
on or after the effective date of this code, shall comply with the regulations
herein referenced.
      (4)   If an existing object is within the obstruction free zone of a road
which has been requested for acceptance by the county, and is allowed to remain
in place, the road will not be accepted by the county.
      (5)   A permit to work in the right-of-way must be obtained prior to the
installation or construction of any light or utility poles within the county
right-of-way.
   (B)   (1)   When the County Highway Department discovers or is given notice
of a violation, the Highway Department shall give 30 days notice, by certified
mail, to the owner of the property upon which the violation exists. 
      (2)   If the violation is maintained beyond the time specified in the
violation notice letter, then the Highway Department reserves the right, after
giving an additional 30 days notice of removal by certified mail, to remove the
obstructing object, with the cost of removal to be paid by the owner.
(Ord. 97-26, passed 10-14-97) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.02 UTILITY PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The LaPorte County Council hereby adopts  regulations concerning the
placement and maintenance of utilities as set forth in Exhibit A to Ordinance
2005-01 which is adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   The County Highway Department will adopt guidelines and procedures for
the implementation of such controls.
   (C)   The County Highway Department will further notify all utilities
currently utilized on county road right-of-ways.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 2-1-05)
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS IN UNINCORPORATED AREAS
§ 70.15  ROLE OF COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners confers upon the County Highway
Department’s Supervisor the authority to regulate and control vehicular traffic
on public rights-of-way within the unincorporated areas of the county, by the
posting of signs including, but not limited to, stop signs, yield signs, speed
control signs, and weight limit signs. 
   (B)   The Supervisor is also authorized, in his or her discretion, to grant
temporary special permits for the use of public rights-of-way in unincorporated
portions of the county, which would otherwise be prohibited by the Frost Law or
other weight limit restrictions.  These temporary permits shall be subject to
those terms, conditions, or restrictions as the Supervisor of the County
Highway Department or the Board of Commissioners shall deem proper to impose
for the benefit and protection of the county road system.
(`88 Code, § 7-70)  (Ord. 94-9, passed 6-20-94)
§ 70.16  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this code for any operator of any vehicle
to operate the vehicle on public rights-of-way located in unincorporated areas
of the county in violation of any posted traffic-control signs, weight limits,
or special permits granted by the County Highway Department Supervisor. 
   (B)   Further, it shall be a violation of this code for an owner of a
vehicle to knowingly permit an agent, representative, or employee to operate
upon a public right-of-way in the unincorporated area of the county any vehicle
which exceeds the weight limits posted upon that right-of-way.
(`88 Code, § 7-71)  (Ord. 94-9, passed 6-20-94) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.17  OVERWEIGHT AND OVERSIZE PERMITS; FEES.
   Overweight and oversize permits are to be issued on forms acceptable to the
County Commissioners at a fee of $10 per permit.
(`88 Code, § 7-73)  (Ord. 94-9, passed 6-20-94)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Refer to §
10.99 of this code for penalties.
   (B)   In addition to the fines listed as a penalty for violations of this
title, the county may bring action against the owner and operator who violates
any provisions of this title and recover the costs of damages sustained. 
   (C)   Anyone who violates Chapter 74,
Schedule III as it relates to Servers Road shall be subject to a fine of $500. 
Anyone who fails to pay such fine and legal action is necessary to enforce the
requirements of that provision in the enforcement of the violation and
penalties of this division may be subject to a penalty not to exceed $2,500
plus attorney fees and costs of this enforcement.
(`88 Code, §§ 7-29, 7-57)  (Am. Ord. 2005-14, passed 11-15-05)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   County road weight limits
   
71.02   Bridge load limits
   
71.03   Weight restrictions; Frost Laws
   
71.04   Community School grounds; traffic restrictions
   
71.05   Speed regulations
   
71.06   Use of jake brakes on Severs Road restricted
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and parking regulations in parks, see §§
93.50 through
93.54
Statutory reference:
   Procedure for posting bridge load limits, see I.C. 9-20-7 et seq.
§ 71.01  COUNTY ROAD WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The load-carrying capacities of various county roads are
insufficient to accommodate excessive loads.  Vehicular wheel loads that exceed
the load-carrying capacity of road pavements and road foundations can produce
serious destruction and damage to the road pavements and road foundations,
causing inconvenience to the traveling public and necessitating excessive and
expensive road repairs and maintenance.
      (2)   The County Board of Commissioners desires to reduce the road damage
and destruction, to reduce the inconvenience to the traveling public, and to
conserve the repair and maintenance funds for the general improvement of the
county highway system for the benefit of the traveling public.
   (B)   Weight restrictions.  It shall be unlawful to operate, or cause to be
operated, any vehicle having a total gross vehicle weight, with load, in excess
of the following:
      (1)   Unless otherwise posted, or set forth in this section or in Chapter
74, Schedule I, the load limit on all county highways and roads shall not
exceed 24,000 pounds or 12 tons gross vehicle weight, other than road and
highway maintenance equipment, farm implements, and vehicles making pick-ups
and deliveries on the most direct route, minimizing the use of county roads;
and
      (2)   On roads passing over a bridge, the gross vehicle weight limit
between the intersections closest to the bridge on opposite sides shall be the
same as the posted weight limit for the bridge.  In no event shall the total
gross vehicle weight exceed that set forth in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Posting.  The County Highway Department is directed and ordered to
post all of the roads listed in Chapter 74, Schedule I with maximum gross
weight signs as indicated.
(`88 Code, § 7-30)  (Ord. 97-9, passed 7-8-97; Am. Ord. 99-14, passed 10-19-
99)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  BRIDGE LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   The county is authorized to reduce the gross load weight allowed
whenever it determines that the maximum load is greater than a bridge can
sustain without serious damage or with safety to itself.
   (B)   Upon fixing the gross weight allowed by ordinance, signs indicating
the gross weight allowed on any given bridge shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at each end of the structure to which they shall apply pursuant to
applicable state law.
(`88 Code, § 7-56)
   (C)   The county shall post all bridges over 20 feet in length which have a
load limit capacity of less than 16 tons. 
(`88 Code, § 7-59)  (Res. 86-11, passed 2-24-86) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.03  WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS; FROST LAWS.
   (A)   Upon declaration by the Board of Commissioners and proper posting of
“Frost Laws” signs by the County Highway Department, the following restrictions
shall be in effect:
      (1)   Four-wheel vehicles having a total gross weight with load are
restricted to 8,000 pounds;
      (2)   Six-wheel vehicles having a total gross weight with load are
restricted to 15,000 pounds;
      (3)   Eight-wheel vehicles having a total gross weight with load are
restricted to 30,000 pounds; and
      (4)   Ten-wheel vehicles having a total gross weight with load are
restricted to 40,000 pounds.
   (B)   Exceptions may be made upon a written permit being first obtained from
the County Highway Supervisor.
   (C)   Permits; exceptions.
      (1)    Overweight violations of §
71.01, this section or Chapter 74, Schedule I do not apply to farm vehicles
loaded with a farm product; farm drainage machinery, implements of agriculture
when used during farm operations or when construction so that implements can be
moved without material damage to the highways and to firefighting apparatus
owned and operated by any other political subdivision or volunteer fire
department.
      (2)   Any person or individual who intends to use such county road in
excessive weight restrictions or in excessive “Frost Law” restrictions may
apply for a separate permit specifying roads to be used and times and
limitations of use. Such permits shall approved by the LaPorte County Highway
Department and be issued in the amount of $100 for duration of not more than 90
days.
(`88 Code, § 7-31)  (Ord. 2002-04, passed 2-26-02; Am. Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-
18-08) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  COMMUNITY SCHOOL GROUNDS; TRAFFIC RESTRICTIONS.
   No motorized vehicles shall be permitted to be driven off of roadways or
parking lots on any county Community School properties.
(`88 Code, § 7-42)  (Ord. 12-76, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.05  SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-5-6, it shall be unlawful for any vehicle
to exceed the speed limit posted on county roads and as designated in Chapter
74, Schedule III of this code.
      (2)   The County Highway Department is directed and ordered to post all
roads with signs indicating the speed limits as designated in Chapter 74,
Schedule III.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to exceed 55 miles per hour on
county roads not otherwise designated and marked with a speed limit.  (`88
Code, § 7-10)
      (4)   For the purpose of these speed provisions, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         TRUCKS.  All trucks, except pickup trucks and carry-all vans which
shall have the same speed limit as automobiles.
   (B)   (1)   All subdivisions approved after January 1, 1997 shall be deemed
urban areas under I.C. 9-21-5-2, and unless specifically set to the contrary by
ordinance, the speed limit on all county roads in these subdivisions shall be
30 miles per hour.  These subdivisions are included in the table in division
(B) of Chapter 74, Schedule III of this code.
      (2)   Roadways in subdivisions approved after January 1, 1997 shall not
be accepted as county roads until the developer shall post all roads with speed
limit signs noting the speed limit at 30 miles per hour.  The speed limit signs
shall be placed at locations as shall be directed by the County Highway
Department.
      (3)   This division (B) shall not apply to county roads that existed
prior to the subdivision being platted and which abut the subdivision.
(Ord. 1996-21, passed 12-9-96; Am. Ord. 99-11, passed 10-12-99) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.06  USE OF JAKE BRAKES ON SEVERS ROAD RESTRICTED.
   (A)   As used in this section, COMPRESSION RELEASE ENGINE BRAKE or JAKE
BRAKE shall mean a hydraulically operated device that converts a power
producing diesel or gas engine into a power absorbing retarding mechanism.
   (B)   A person who drives a motor vehicle equipped with a compression
release engine brake or jake brake upon Severs Road may not use the compression
release engine brake or jake brake instead of the service brake system, except
in the case of failure of the service brake system or emergency.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 4-17-03)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   These penalty provisions apply to any vehicle that violates the
weight restriction provided in §§
71.01,
71.03, and Chapter 74, Schedule I.
      (2)   (a)   Any person causing to operate or operating a vehicle or a
combination of vehicles on a county road with weight and excess provided by
ordinance may be detained until the weight or combination vehicle is reduced or
distributed to comply with the limitations provided by ordinance.
         (b)   If such vehicle is unable to have the weight distributed or
reduced, such vehicle may be impounded and the costs of such impound shall be
borne by the operator or owner thereof and such vehicle may not be released
until a bond of $500 for each 10,000 pounds of overweight.
      (3)   A person who violates §§
71.01,
71.03 or Chapter 74, Schedule I will be subject to a fine of $100 for each
2,500 pounds of overweight or additional weight up to 10,000 pounds. For any
excess weight over 10,000 pounds, an additional fine of $100 for each
additional 1,000 pounds shall be assessed up to $2,500.
      (4)   A person who violates the issuance of a permit under §
71.03(C) shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $750.
      (5)   Any court action involved to enforce the failure to pay such
violations will subject the individual to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each
violation, as well as attorney fees and the reporting of the failure to pay to
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles for suspension of driving privileges.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
71.06 shall be subject to a fine of $100.
(Ord. 2003-04, passed 4-17-03; Am. Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-18-08)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking prohibited on county roads
   
72.02   Parking on county roads; limited permit
   
72.03   Parking at Michigan City Courthouse
Cross-reference:
   Loading zones, see Chapter 75,
Schedule I
   Traffic and parking regulations in parks, see §§
93.50 through
93.54
§ 72.01  PARKING PROHIBITED ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   No motor vehicle shall park on county road rights-of-way, shoulders,
or along the side of county highways, other than emergency situations and road
and highway repair and maintenance equipment, farm implements, and vehicles
making pick-ups or deliveries, loading or unloading, minimizing the time
necessary to park on county road rights-of-way.
   (B)   “No Parking” signs shall be posted by the County Highway Department
intermittently on county roads as the County Highway Engineer deems necessary
to carry out the purpose and intent of this section.
(Ord. 97-27, passed 10-14-97) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.02  PARKING ON COUNTY ROADS; LIMITED PERMIT.
   The County Highway Department, with the approval of the County Engineer, can
issue, upon proper application, a permit for use of specific county roads for
parking for a limited duration of time.  The application fee shall be $50.
(Ord. 97-27, passed 10-14-97)
§ 72.03  PARKING AT MICHIGAN CITY COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   Parking spaces at all Laporte County Courthouse parking lots shall be
designated or otherwise marked and reserved for county officials and employees
in an amount and in such locations as deemed necessary and appropriate by the
county.
   (B)   No person shall park in any parking space designated or otherwise
marked and reserved in accordance with division (A).
   (C)   Any person in violation of this section shall be subject to a fine in
the amount of $25, and the violator’s vehicle shall be towed at the violator’s
expense.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 3-15-11; Am. Ord. 2011-06, passed 4-19-11)
CHAPTER 73:  SNOWMOBILES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Purpose
   
73.02   Snowmobile-eligible roads; exceptions
   
73.03   Snowmobile operation; restrictions on time and place
   
73.04   Snowmobile operation; safety requirements
   
73.05   Low speed, off-road, and other like vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and parking regulations in parks, see §§
93.50 through
93.54
§ 73.01  PURPOSE.
   The Board of Commissioners believes that certain restrictions, requirements,
and qualifications for the operation of snowmobiles should be adopted.
(`88 Code, § 6-17)
§ 73.02  SNOWMOBILE-ELIGIBLE ROADS; EXCEPTIONS.
   All county rights-of-way dedicated for public use which have a traveled
surface and which are maintained by the County Highway Department shall be
designated as available for the legal operation of a snowmobile upon the
traveled portion of the right-of- way, subject to the following exceptions.
   (A)    Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon any real estate belonging to
the county which is not designated as a public right-of-way.
   (B)   Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon any county highways which are
located within a platted subdivision.
   (C)   Snowmobiles are not permitted upon the traveled portion of public
highways belonging to the state or any other governmental entity, including but
not limited to municipal corporations found within the county by reason of this
chapter.
   (D)   Snowmobiles are not permitted on roads jointly owned or jointly
maintained by more than one governmental unit unless both pass an ordinance
allowing that usage.
   (E)   Snowmobiles are not permitted upon public rights-of-way which are
privately maintained or upon any public right-of-way which, by the posting of a
sign, prohibits snowmobile usage.
(`88 Code, § 6-18)  (Ord. 79-3, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.03  SNOWMOBILE OPERATION; RESTRICTIONS ON TIME AND PLACE.
   In addition to those restrictions on the time and place of operation of
snowmobiles upon public highways imposed by state law, the following
restrictions upon snowmobile operation are imposed by this chapter.
   (A)   The operation of snowmobiles is prohibited on all days during the year
when school is in session, from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. in the morning and from 2 p.m.
to 4 p.m. in the afternoon.
   (B)   The operation of snowmobiles on any county highway within 500 feet of
a county school while that school is in session is prohibited.
   (C)   Use of county highways for traveling to and from specially scheduled
snowmobiling events is not permitted without having requested and received
prior permission from the County Board of Commissioners.  The Board of
Commissioners will take action regarding these requests only after the same
have been presented to the County Sheriff and a recommendation of the Sheriff
has been forwarded to the Board.
   (D)   Use of snowmobiles on private property in the county is prohibited
unless prior permission has been secured from the owner of that property.
(`88 Code, § 6-19)  (Ord. 79-3, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.04  SNOWMOBILE OPERATION; SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   The operation of snowmobiles on the traveled portion of public highways in
the county is subject to the following restrictions and requirements.
   (A)   Prior to operation on a county highway, all snowmobiles must be
registered with the County Sheriff’s police.
   (B)   At the time of registration with the County Sheriff’s police, the
owner or operator of a snowmobile must make arrangements suitable to the County
Sheriff’s police allowing for the safety inspection of the snowmobile, if
requested.
   (C)   At the time the snowmobile is registered with the County Sheriff’s
police, evidence of existence of an in-force policy of insurance covering
personal property damage in the amount of $25,000 and personal liability in the
amount of $100,000 must be presented to the County Sheriff’s police.
   (D)   All lights on snowmobiles must be on at all times during operation on
the traveled portion or untraveled portion of any county highway.
   (E)   Snowmobiles must yield to all traffic encountered on the traveled
portion of any county highway and must ride single file.
   (F)   No drag racing or speed contest of any type or kind whatsoever is
permitted by snowmobiles on any portion of a county highway.
   (G)   No more than two persons are allowed to ride at one time on any
snowmobile.
   (H)   No alcoholic beverages are permitted to be consumed or transported by
any person while operating a snowmobile on a county highway.
   (I)   All persons riding upon or operating snowmobiles must wear safety
helmets.
   (J)   All snowmobiles must have properly operating mufflers which equal or
exceed original manufacturer’s specifications.
   (K)   Anything towed by snowmobiles must use a rigid tow bar which may not
exceed five feet in length.  Total length of the tow bar plus the object being
towed must not exceed 20 feet.
(`88 Code, § 6-20)
   (L)   A snowmobile shall not stop upon the traveled portion of any county
highway.
   (M)   The parking of snowmobiles along county highways for the purpose of
loading or unloading is prohibited.
(`88 Code, § 6-19)  (Ord. 79-3, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.05  LOW SPEED, OFF-ROAD, AND OTHER LIKE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LICENSED PERSON. Any person holding a valid Indiana motor vehicle
operator's license or a comparable license issued by another state.
      LOW SPEED VEHICLE. Any two-, three- or four-wheeled motor-powered
vehicle:
         (a)   With a maximum design speed of not more than 35 miles per hour;
         (b)   With a maximum weight not to exceed 2,200 pounds; and
         (c)   With the capacity to transport one or more persons from one
place to another or for recreational use. An example of a LOW SPEED VEHICLE is
a golf cart, or other similar type of vehicle.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. Any four-wheeled motorized vehicle having either a
side-by-side seating arrangement or straddled seating for which the state does
not require registration and plating to utilize in going from one place to
another for transportation or recreation. The term includes vehicles commonly
referred to as all-terrain vehicles (ATV), side-by-side vehicles (SxS), utility
task vehicles (UTV), recreational off-highway vehicles, (ROV), or multipurpose
off-highway utility vehicles (MOHUV).
      PERSONAL ASSIST MOBILITY DEVICE. Any three- or four-wheeled motorized
vehicle used to assist medically handicapped persons travel from one place to
another.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any low speed or off-road vehicle equipped with headlamps, tail
lights, mirror,
top-mounted running light and horn operated by a licensed driver shall be
allowed to be utilized as a vehicle for the purposes of transportation or
recreational activities in and on the highways under the jurisdiction of the
county. Any vehicle that is not equipped with each of the aforesaid items is
not permitted on county roads or highways.
      (2)   No low speed or off-road vehicle may be parked or operated on a
highway in the state highway system other than to cross the state highway at a
90 degree angle (right angle) in order to travel from one county roadway to
another county roadway and only when the operation can be done safely.
      (3)   Any person who, by medical prescription, operates a personal assist
mobility device in and on the highways of the county shall be allowed as to the
benefit only of the prescribed person.
      (4)   Any permitted use shall still be subject to all state statutes and
relevant county ordinances applicable to the operation of motor vehicles,
including speed limits and parking restrictions.
      (5)   The number of passengers permitted on any low speed or off-road
vehicle may not exceed the number of passengers recommended by the vehicle's
manufacturer.
      (6)   Where more than one low speed or off-road vehicle is present, they
shall ride single file and no single file group shall pass or overtake any
motor vehicle.
      (7)   No low speed or off-road vehicle shall be loaded or unloaded from a
stopped or standing motor vehicle on the traveled portion of any county
highway.
      (8)   The operator of a low speed or off-road vehicle shall maintain
insurance on the operation of the vehicle in the minimum amounts specified in
I.C. 9-25-4-5.
   (C)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Except as specifically provided in division (B) of this section,
the utilization of low speed vehicles, personal assist mobility devices, or
off-road vehicles in and on the highways or roadways of the county (including
highways in the state highway system) is prohibited where the posted speed
limit is above 35 miles per hour and shall be a violation of this chapter.
Furthermore, there may be portions of roads or highways in the county system
with speed limits of 35 miles per hour or below on which this Board determines
such vehicles are prohibited because of excessive regular motorized traffic or
usage. Any such prohibition will only be effective when signs giving notice of
the prohibition are posted upon or at the entrances to that portion of such
county highway or road that is affected.
      (2)   No low speed or off-road vehicle may be operated on a county
highway or roadway after sunset or before sunrise. Any usage of such vehicles
in contravention of this time is a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Risk. The county makes no representations as to the safety of its
highways/roads or the fitness or appropriateness for use of its highways for
low speed vehicles, personal assist mobility devices, or off-road vehicles
purposes. Any use of low speed vehicles, personal assist mobility devices, or
off-road vehicles is done strictly at the risk of the operator and his or her
passengers who assume any risks that attend thereto.
   (E)   Severance provision. Should any part of this chapter be declared
invalid, such invalidity shall apply only to the specific section or subsection
of the chapter so declared invalid and shall not otherwise affect the balance
of the chapter.
   (F)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   An officer of the LaPorte County Sheriffs Department may issue a
county ordinance violation citation to a person who violates any provision of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $2,500. A fine assessed for a violation
of this chapter shall be deposited into the county's general fund.
      (3)   A violation of this chapter that is committed on a state highway by
the operator of a low speed or off-road vehicle is an ordinance violation.
(`88 Code, § 6-21)  (Ord. 79-3, passed 9-14-81; Am. Ord. 2019-17, passed 12-11-
19)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   General weight limitations
   
II.   Operation by semi-trucks; prohibitions
   
III.   Speed limits
   
IV.   Yield intersections
   
V.   Stop intersections and signs
   
VI.   One-way streets
   
VII.   Other signage
SCHEDULE I.  GENERAL WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate, or cause to be operated, any vehicle having
a total gross vehicle weight, with load, in excess of the following.
 
Location        Weight Limit  Qualifications  `88 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
                              and Exceptions  Section
In any                        Road and
subdivision                   highway
containing                    maintenance
roads dedicated               equipment, or
to the county,                vehicles
including                     delivering or
Garden Circle   20,000 pounds picking up a
and Lilac and   or ten tons   load, may be    7-32     97-9     7-8-97
Tulip Lanes in                driven on these
the Town and                  streets for not
Country Estates               more than the
Subdivision of                minimum
Springfield                   distance
Township                      necessary for
                              the purpose
On County Road
150 E between
Division Road   12 tons                      7-30     2008-22  12-11-08
and State Road
4/104
On County Road
300 N between
Highway 39 and  Five tons                    7-30     97-9     7-8-97
County Road 100
W
On the bridge
on County Road  Ten tons                     7-58              9-3-74
1500 S over the
Kankakee River
 
Penalty, see §§
70.99,
71.99
SCHEDULE II.  OPERATION BY SEMI-TRUCKS; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SEMI-TRUCK.  Any truck or trailer or combination thereof, exceeding
24,000 pounds or 12 tons gross vehicle weight, other than road and highway
maintenance equipment.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-20-1-3, it shall be unlawful for any semi-truck to
operate on the following designated highways unless otherwise provided.  The
County Highway Department is to post all streets and roadways listed below with
a sign indicating that semi-truck traffic is prohibited, including time
limitations, if applicable.
Street(s) Location Qualifications `88 Code Section Ord. No. Date Passed
                                                          `88     Ord.   Date
Street(s) Location                         Qualifications Code    No.    Passed
                                                          Section
                                                                         6-16-
All       Haskell Heights Subdivision                    7-36    98-8;  98;
                                                                  99-14  10-19-
                                                                         99
                                                                         6-16-
All       Western Heights Subdivision                    7-36    98-8;  98;
                                                                  99-14  10-19-
                                                                         99
County
Road      From Severs Rd. to Park St. at                         99-14  10-19-
(C.R.)    the LaPorte city limits                                        99
100 W
                                                                         6-16-
C.R. 250  Between State Rd. 35 and “I”  .            7-36    98-8;  98;
S                                                                 99-14  10-19-
                                                                         99
                                                                         6-16-
C.R. 400  Between Johnson Rd. and Highway                7-36    98-8;  98;
N         421                                                     99-14  10-19-
                                                                         99
                                                                  98-8;  6-16-
Fail Road Between Severs Rd. and U.S. 20                 7-36    2000-4 98; 4-
                                                                         4-00
Park      From Severs Rd. to the LaPorte                                 10-19-
Street    city limits                                            99-14  99
extension
*Servers                                   Prohibited             2005-  11-15-
Road                                      from using as          14     05
                                           a bi-pass
*Semi truck traffic may use Server Road as a mean of access and ingress to the
Thomas Rose Industrial Park and the adjoining industrial areas from Highway 30
or from Highway 2 through Fail Road.
 
(Ord. 98-8, passed 6-16-98; Am. Ord. 99-14, passed 10-19-99; Am. Ord. 2003-03,
passed 3-21-03 ; Am. Ord. 2005-14, passed 11-15-05) ) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-5-6, it shall be unlawful for any vehicle to
exceed 15 miles per hour on the following designated roads during flooding
conditions, and the roads shall be closed to all except local traffic.  These
conditions shall take effect when the lakes exceed the established level of
796.2 feet above sea level and upon posting of signs of the speed limit and of
“local traffic only” restrictions.
 
Road        Location
All         Holmes Island
Elm Place   Island Section of Pine Lake
Grayson Rd. Island Section of Pine Lake
Island Dr.  Island Section of Pine Lake
Maple Dr.   Island Section of Pine Lake
Oak Dr.     Island Section of Pine Lake
 
(`88 Code, § 7-2)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to exceed the following
speed limits which shall be posted on the following designated roads.
      (2)   All residential subdivision streets not otherwise posted will have
a speed limit of 20 mph.
Street Location Speed Limit (mph) `88 Code Section Ord. No. Date Passed
                                                                               Speed `88     Ord.  Date
Street    Location                                                             Limit Code    No.   Passed
                                                                               (mph) Section
C.R. 50 S From Forrester Rd. W beyond Carmel Chapel                            35    7-6           7-15-
                                                                                                   74
Johnson   From Indiana West, at the city limits of LaPorte City, west to C.R.  30    7-5           6-24-
Road      400 W                                                                                    68
         All Community School Corporation’s school parking lots             10    7-40    12-76 4-12-
                                                                                                   76
         All access roads and streets to school parking lots or school        20    7-41    12-76 4-12-
          grounds, on Community School properties                                                  76
Waverly   Johnson Subdivision starting at the city limits of LaPorte from      45    7-8           6-24-
Road      County Road 400 W to the Toll Road                                                       68
         The communities of Wellsboro and Union Mills in Noble Township       30    7-5           9-8-58
         Acorn Acres Subdivision                                              30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Anderson Addition Subdivision                                        30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Arndt Apple Acres Subdivision                                        30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Arndt Apple Acres Subdivision, Phase 2                               30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Applewood Subdivision and Additions 1 and 2                          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Bartmess Acres Subdivision and Addition 1                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Beacon Hills Subdivision, Units 1 and 2                              30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Beech Villa Subdivision                                              30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Blossom Estates Subdivision                                          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Brookdale Farms Subdivision                                          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Casaday’s Addition A, B, and C  (subdivision)                     30            97-18 9-2-97
         Chateau Meadows Subdivision                                          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Clark Subdivision                                                    30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Colonial Estates Subdivision and Addition 1                          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Colson Subdivision                                                   30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Concord Hills Addition 1 (subdivision)                               30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Concord Valley Subdivision and Addition 1                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Concord Vineyard Subdivision, Unit 1                                 30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Concord Vineyard Subdivision, Units 2 and 3                          30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Country Club Acres Subdivision                                       30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Crestview Subdivision Unit 4                                         30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Darrow’s Addition Subdivision                                      30            97-18 9-2-97
         Decker’s Woods Subdivision, Units 1, 2, and 3                      30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Door Village Addition, Units 1 and 2 (subdivision)                   30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Durham Woods Subdivision and Addition 1                              30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Eagle Ridge Subdivision                                              30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         East Cha-Mar Hills Subdivision                                       30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         East Lake Park Subdivision                                           30            97-18 9-2-97
         Edgemont Village Subdivision                                         30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Elkview Addition Subdivision                                         30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Emma’s Acres Subdivision, Phase 2                                  30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Evergreen Estates Subdivision                                        30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Forest Lake Estates Subdivision and Addition 1                       30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Forrester Hills Subdivision                                          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Galena Meadows Subdivision                                           30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Gaslight Village Subdivision                                         30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Glenbrook Subdivision, Units 1, 2, 3, and 4                          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Glendale A and B (subdivision)                                       30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Glenview Acres Subdivision, Addition 2                               30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Greenbrier Estates Subdivision, Units 1, 2, and 3                    30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Green Meadows Subdivision, Phases 1 and 2                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Greenview Valley Subdivision and Additions 1 and 2                   30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Happy Landing Acres Subdivision and Additions 2, 3, and 4            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Hartman’s Addition Subdivision                                     30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Haskell Heights Subdivision                                          30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Heritage Manor Subdivision                                           30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Houseknecht Subdivision                                              30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Hudson Heights Subdivision                                           30            97-18 9-2-97
         Hudson Lake Beach A Subdivision                                      30            97-18 9-2-97
         Hudson Lake Villa Subdivision                                        30            97-18 9-2-97
         Hudson Lake Villa Subdivision, Unit 2                                30            97-18 9-2-97
         Hunters Run Subdivision                                              30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Hunters Run Subdivision, Phase 2                                     30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Indian Estates Subdivision and Additions 1 and 2                     30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Indian Springs Subdivision                                           30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Indiana Baptist Assembly Grounds Subdivision                         30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Jongkind Addition Subdivision                                        30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Jongkind Park Subdivision and Additions 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, and 9      30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Lakeside Estates Subdivision, Additions 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Lakeside Manor Subdivision                                           30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
                                                                                             1996- 12-9-
         Lambert’s Addition 2 Subdivision                                   30            21;   96; 9-
                                                                                             97-18 2-97
         Lee-Len Park Estates Subdivision and Additions 1 and 2               30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Liberty Bell Beach Subdivision                                       30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Lincoln Gardens Subdivision                                          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Lincoln Gardens Court Subdivision                                    30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Loeffler Park Subdivision and Additions 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Marklyn Estates Subdivision                                          30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Meadowdale Subdivision                                               30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Meadowview Estates Subdivision and Additions 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5       30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Moraine Hills Subdivision, Units 1 and 2                             30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
                                                                                             1996- 12-9-
         Newby’s Addition Subdivision                                       30            21;   96; 9-
                                                                                             97-18 2-97
         Nicomas Place Subdivision                                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Nilewood Subdivision                                                 30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         North View Subdivision                                               30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Oak Manor Subdivision                                                30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Orchard Estates Subdivision and Additions 1, 2, and 3                30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Orchard Highland Subdivision                                         30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Pin Oak Woods Subdivision                                            30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Pinebrook Subdivision and Additions 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5                30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Pinecrest Subdivision                                                30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Pinola Estates Subdivision and Additions 1, 2, and 3                 30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Pleasant Hills Subdivision and Addition 1                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Pleasant Meadows Subdivision and Addition 1                          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Rainbow Acres Subdivision                                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Rangewood Subdivision and Additions 1, 2, 3, and 4                   30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Richmond Heights Subdivision                                         30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Ridgeview Additions Subdivision and Units 2, 3, and 4                30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Robin Ranch Subdivision, Additions 2, 3, and 4                       30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Rolling Acres Subdivision                                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Rolling Meadows Subdivision and Additions 1 and 2                    30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Royal Pines Subdivision and Additions 1 and 2                        30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Rustic Hills Subdivision and Additions 1, 2, and 3                   30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Ryan Woods Subdivision                                               30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Sal Acres Subdivision                                                30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Sand Ridge Subdivision, Unit 1                                       30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Sandy Beach Addition Subdivision                                     30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Shaker Hills Subdivision, Additions 1 and 2                          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Shawn-E-Hills Subdivision                                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Shorewood Hills Subdivision and Addition 1                           30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Smith Subdivision                                                    30            97-18 9-2-97
                                                                                             1996- 12-9-
         Smith’s Garden Estates Subdivision                                 30            21;   96; 9-
                                                                                             97-18 2-97
         South Gate Subdivision and Additions 2 and 3                         30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Spring Creek Subdivision and Additions 1 and 2                       30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Suburban Mobile Homes Estates Subdivision                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Sunnyside Subdivision (Lincoln Township)                             30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Sunnyside Subdivision (Scipio Township)                              30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Sunnyside Addition Subdivision (Unrecorded)                          30            97-18 9-2-97
         Swanson’s Heritage Hills Subdivision, Units 1, 2, and 3            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Tenth Addition Subdivision                                           30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Tiffany Woods Subdivision                                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Timberlake Subdivision                                               30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Timber Ridge Subdivision                                             30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Town and Garden Estates Subdivision                                  30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Tree Haven Subdivision and Lake Shore, Hill Crest, Oak Point, and    30            1996- 12-9-
          North Shore Additions                                                              21    96
         Twin Acre Estates Subdivision                                        30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Valley of Swallows Subdivision, Parcel 1                             30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    99
         Vintage Hills Estates Subdivision and Additions 1, 2, and 3          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Vineyard Hills Park Subdivision, Units 1, 2, and 3                   30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Vineyard Hills Park Subdivision, Addition 4                          30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Vista Valley Subdivision                                             30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Western Heights Subdivision                                          30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Westwood Place Subdivision, Additions 1, 2, 3, and 4                 30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Westwood Oaks Subdivision                                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Whisper Isle Subdivision                                             30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Willow Springs Subdivision and Addition 1                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Windsor Hills Subdivision                                            30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Woods of Concord Subdivision                                         30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Woods of Concord Subdivision II                                      30            99-12 10-12-
                                                                                                   99
         Woodland Hills Subdivision and Additions 1, 2, 3, and 4              30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
         Woodridge Subdivision                                                30            1996- 12-9-
                                                                                             21    96
Bleck Rd. Between U.S. 20 and C.R. 600 W in Coolspring Township                30            97-29 11-25-
                                                                                                   97
Center    Fish Lake, near the Little League playing field                      20    7-3           8-25-
St.                                                                                                79
Chicago   Between C.R. 700 E and Hudson Lake                                   40    7-7     R. 4- 8-6-79
Rd.                                                                                          79
Corymbo   From its intersection with El Portal Dr. to its intersection with    35    7-6     91-15 6-17-
Rd.       the Michigan state line in Springfield Township                                          91
Coulter   From its intersection with Highway 6 to its intersection with        20            99-9  8-17-
Rd.       Highway 2                                                                                99
Country   Between Kowal and Johnson Road, such area to be designated a school  20            2008- 10-7-
Club Dr.  zone                                                                               20    08
18th St.  Between State Rd. 2 and State Rd. 39                                 30            2000- 12-21-
                                                                                             31    00
C.R. 50 E                                                                     30           2003- 12-9-
                                                                                             19    03
C.R. 50 N From Division Rd. to C.R. 500 E                                      40            2000- 8-22-
                                                                                             17    00
C.R. 50 W From its intersection with C.R. 400 N to its intersection with C.R.  40    7-7     90-11 8-20-
          450 N in Center Township                                                                 90
C.R. 75 W From Nowak to C.R. 400 S                                             45    7-8     2002- 12-10-
                                                                                             20    02
C.R. 75 W Between C.R. 250 S and C.R. 400 S                                    35            2005- 3-15-
                                                                                             03    05
C.R. 100  Between U.S. 421 W to C.R. 1150 W                                    40            2001- 12-4-
N                                                                                            24    02
C.R. 100  Between C.R. 600 E and Taylor Rd.                                    30    7-5           9-11-
S                                                                                                  72
C.R. 100  From C.R. 300 E to C.R. 400 E                                        40    7-7           10-22-
S                                                                                                  73
C.R. 100  From the intersection of Forrester Road to the new location of State 35            2010- 2-2-10
S         Road 2                                                                             01
C.R. 100  From the Quaker Cemetery to C.R. 350 N                               30    7-5           7-22-
W                                                                                                  68
C.R. 125  From Fail Road and C.R. 1000 N                                       40    7-7     2006- 10-13-
E                                                                                            13    06
C.R. 125  From Forrester Road to Wozniak Road                                  35    7-65    2002- 12-17-
N                                                                                            21    02
C.R. 150  Between Division Road and State Road 4/104                           35    7-6     2008- 12-11-
E                                                                                            21    08
C.R. 150  Between Fail Road and C.R. 400 E                                     35            2019- 3-20-
N                                                                                            10    19
C.R. 150  From its intersection with C.R. 250 S to its intersection with C.R.  40    7-7     94-1  1-10-
W         500 S in Scipio Township                                                                 94
C.R. 175  From State Rd. 2 to the second high bridge over the New York Central 40    7-7           5-4-64
E
C.R. 200  From State Rd. 4 to Travis Road                                      40                  9-12-
E                                                                                                  60
C.R. 200  From Wozniak Rd. to U.S. Highway 421                                 35    7-6     R. 3- 5-21-
N                                                                                            79    79
C.R. 200  From Highway 104 to C.R. 500 E, in Pleasant Township                 35            2000- 5-30-
S                                                                                            12    00
C.R. 250  Between C.R. 950 S and U.S. 6                                        35            2000- 11-14-
E                                                                                            30    00
C.R. 250  From C.R. 500 W to Goldring Road                                     35    7-6     2002- 10-15-
N                                                                                            18    02
C.R. 250  Between C.R. 100 W and U.S. 35                                       30    7-5           9-5-78
S
C.R. 275  From Wozniak Road to Goldring Road                                   35            2002- 9-3-02
N                                                                                            16
C.R. 300  Between State Rd. 4 and C.R. 100 S                                   30    7-5     R. 2- 6-12-
E                                                                                            78    78
C.R. 300  From its intersection with C.R. 1000 N to its intersection with the  40    7-7     91-19 8-12-
E         Indiana/Michigan state line in Galena Township                                           91
C.R. 300  From its intersection with State Rd. 2 to its intersection with U.S. 40    7-7     88-13 8-22-
E         Highway 20 in Kankakee Township                                                          88
C.R. 300  From its intersection with U.S. 20 to its intersection with C.R.     40    7-7     91-13 6-3-91
E         1000 N in Kankakee and Galena Townships
C.R. 300  North of U.S. 6 to the dead end                                      35    7-6           12-10-
E                                                                                                  79
C.R. 300  Between C.R. 50 E and Fail Rd. in Kankakee Township                  40            98-18 10-13-
N                                                                                                  98
C.R. 300  Between C.R. 100 W and Highway 39                                    35    7-6           11-1-
N                                                                                                  76
C.R. 300  Between C.R. 525 W and Johnson Rd.                                   35    7-6           11-4-
N                                                                                                  74
C.R. 300  Between U.S. Highway 421 and County Line Rd.                         30    7-5     R.    8-25-
N                                                                                            80-6  80
C.R. 300  From C.R. 725 W to Johnson Rd.                                       30    7-5           4-8-74
N
C.R. 300  In Coolspring Township, from 1,484 feet east of the center line of   20            97-24 9-23-
N         C.R. 950 W to 2,834 feet east of the center line of C.R. 950 W                           97
C.R. 300  In Coolspring Township, east of U.S. Highway 421 to 1,484 feet east  35            97-24 9-23-
N         of the center line of C.R. 950 W                                                         97
C.R. 300  From C.R. 925 E to the St. Joseph county line                        45    7-8     R. 2- 5-14-
S                                                                                            79    79
C.R. 300  From its intersection with State Rd. 4 to its intersection with C.R. 30    7-5     94-19 9-6-94
S         300 E in Pleasant Township
C.R. 300  From Highway 35 to State Rd. 104                                     45    7-8           4-30-
S                                                                                                  73
C.R. 300  From Highway 35 to C.R. 300 E                                        45            2002- 5-21-
S                                                                                            06    02
C.R. 300  North from U.S. Highway 20 to C.R. 700 N                             40            2000- 8-22-
W                                                                                            16    00
C.R. 300  Between C.R. 700 N and C.R. 800 N                                    30            2000- 8-22-
W                                                                                            16    00
C.R. 300  From C.R. 800 N to C.R. 925 N                                        40            2000- 8-22-
W                                                                                            16    00
C.R. 325  In Springfield Township from its intersection with U.S. 20, south to 35    7-6     89-5  5-30-
W         its intersection with C.R. 450 N in Center Township                                      89
C.R. 350  Between C.R. 300 S and State Rd. 4 in Pleasant Township              40            98-17 9-29-
E                                                                                                  98
C.R. 350  “Children Playing” signs off of Johnson Road                     20    7-3           4-22-
N                                                                                                  68
C.R. 350
N         Between C.R. 850 W and C.R. 700 W                                    45    7-8           4-14-
(Gruenke                                                                                           69
Rd.)
C.R. 350  From Joliet Road to 400 S                                            35            2002- 9-3-02
W                                                                                            16
C.R. 375  From C.R. 850 W at its intersection with C.R. 200 N to where road    40    7-7
N         turns left and becomes C.R. 875 W
C.R. 375  From C.R. 850 W to where road turns north and becomes C.R. 875 W     40    7-7
N
C.R. 400  From its intersection with State Rd. 4 to its intersection with C.R. 40    7-7     91-10 5-28-
E         300 S in Pleasant Township                                                               91
C.R. 400  In Kankakee Township north of U.S. 2 and south of U.S. 20            45            97-13 7-15-
E                                                                                                  97
                                                                                             93-   5-17-
C.R. 400  Between C.R. 50 W and Fail Rd.                                       40    7-7     10;   93; 9-
N                                                                                            2000- 5-00
                                                                                             20
C.R. 400  Between Wozniak Rd. and Johnson Rd.                                  35    7-6     R. 9- 8-21-
N                                                                                            78    78
C.R. 400  From 421 to Johnson Rd., in open areas                               40    7-7           5-3-71
N
C.R. 400  From 421 to Johnson Rd., in congested areas                          35    7-7           5-3-71
N
C.R. 400  From its intersection with C.R. 600 W, the township boundary line                        8-15-
N         between Coolspring and Center, to its intersection with County Line  40    7-7     94-17 94
          Rd. in Coolspring Township
C.R. 400  The eastbound lanes from U.S. 421 to Cleveland Avenue, and the       35    7-7     2009- 2-3-09
N         eastbound and westbound lanes from Cleveland Avenue to C.R. 900 W                  02
C.R. 400  Between U.S. 35 and State Rd. 39                                     40    7-7     2003- 6-3-03
S                                                                                            09
C.R. 400  300 yards each direction from its intersection with C.R. 500 W       40    7-7           4-10-
S                                                                                                  67
C.R. 400  Between Schultz Rd. and U.S. Highway 35                              35            1996- 12-2-
W                                                                                            20    96
C.R. 400  Between U.S. 20 and C.R. 625 N                                       30    7-5           9-3-68
W
C.R. 400  From State Rd. 2 to Joliet Rd.                                       35            2001- 9-11-
W                                                                                            18    01
C.R. 400  From State Rd. 2 to Small Rd.                                        40            2005- 6-21-
W                                                                                            09    05
C.R. 400  From Waverly Rd. (C.R. 150 N) north to Johnson Rd.                   35            2000- 9-19-
W                                                                                            21    00
C.R. 400  In the immediate housing area                                        30    7-5           9-13-
W                                                                                                  76
                                                                                             2013-
C.R. 400  From C.R. 800 S to Mill Pond Drive                                   20            07A;  8-21-
W                                                                                            2013- 13
                                                                                             08A
C.R. 400  From C.R. 800 S to Mill Pond Drive                                   20            2013- 8-21-
W                                                                                            08    13
C.R. 425  Between Division Road and C.R. 500 E                                 40            2000- 8-22-
E                                                                                            17    00
C.R. 450  From U.S. 20 to Michigan St. in Rolling Prairie                      30    7-5           12-21-
E                                                                                                  70
C.R. 450  Between C.R. 100 W and Range Rd.                                     40            2000- 9-19-
N                                                                                            22    00
C.R. 450  Between C.R. 600 W and C.R. 525 W, in Center Township                30            97-11 7-15-
N                                                                                                  97
C.R. 450  Between Johnson Rd. and C.R. 600 W                                   30    7-5     R. 6- 8-29-
N                                                                                            77    77
C.R. 450  Between C.R. 1375 S and U.S. Highway 30                              30    7-5     R. 8- 8-14-
W                                                                                            78    78
C.R. 500  In Kankakee Township, from its intersection with Michigan St. to its 40    7-7     89-15 10-2-
E         intersection with C.R. 800 N in Galena Township                                          89
C.R. 500  Between C.R. 525 W and C.R. 600 W                                    40    7-7           10-18-
N                                                                                                  71
C.R. 500  From its intersection with U.S. 421 to its intersection with C.R.    40    7-7     93-12 5-17-
S         900 W in New Durham Township                                                             93
C.R. 500  300 yards each direction from its intersection with C.R. 400 S       40    7-7           4-10-
W                                                                                                  67
C.R. 500  Between C.R. 1000 N and C.R. 800 N                                   50    7-9           9-3-57
W
C.R. 500  Between Johnson Rd. and Small Rd.                                    40            97-6  5-20-
W                                                                                                  97
C.R. 500  From its intersection with Small Rd. in Center Township to its       30    7-5     93-11 1-15-
W         intersection with C.R. 50 S in Scipio Township                                           93
C.R. 500  From its intersection with C.R. 50 S to its intersection with the    20    7-3     93-11 5-17-
W         Conrail tracks in Scipio Township                                                        93
C.R. 500  From its intersection with the Conrail tracks to its intersection    30    7-5     93-11 1-15-
W         with State Rd. 2 in Scipio Township                                                      93
C.R. 525  From its intersection with Johnson Rd. in Center Township to its     40    7-7     93-16 11-29-
W         intersection with U.S. 35 in Springfield Township                                        93
C.R. 525  From its intersection with Schultz Rd. to its intersection with C.R. 30    7-5     94-23 10-24-
W         450 N in Center Township                                                                 94
C.R. 600  Between C.R. 800 N and 1000 N                                        45            2001- 9-11-
E                                                                                            14    01
C.R. 600  Between State Rd. 2 and U.S. 20                                      40    7-7           7-1-74
E
C.R. 600  From C.R. 350 N to State Rd. 2                                       40            2002- 7-30-
E                                                                                            13    02
C.R. 600  In Noble and Clinton Townships, in front of South Central School and 30            97-4  5-6-97
W         for 800 feet in either direction from the school
C.R. 650  From its intersection with Range Rd. to its intersection with Fail   35    7-6     91-9  5-28-
N         Rd. in Galena Township                                                                   91
C.R. 700  Between U.S. 2 and C.R. 350 N                                        35    7-6           11-22-
E                                                                                                  71
C.R. 700  On each end, by State Highway 2 and State Highway 20, except in      55    7-8           3-17-
E         posted school zones                                                                      69
C.R. 700  Between C.R. 600 E and Emery Rd., except that section set at 20 mph  40            1996- 4-1-96
N         near the New Prairie Elementary School                                             5
C.R. 700  From a point 500 feet west of the westerly driveway of the New                     1996-
N         Prairie Elementary School to a point 500 feet east of the school’s 20            5     4-1-96
          easterly driveway
C.R. 775  From U.S. 20 to C.R. 50 E                                            40            2003- 12-9-
N                                                                                            18    03
C.R. 800  From State Rd. 4 to Wabash Railroad                                  40    7-7           6-4-73
E
C.R. 800  In the residential area along the east side of the lake              30    7-5           6-4-73
E
C.R. 800  Between C.R. 425 E and C.R. 500 E                                    35            1995- 8-28-
N                                                                                            16    95
C.R. 800  Between Fail Road and C.R. 125 E                                     35    7-6     2006- 11-8-
N                                                                                            12    06
C.R. 800  From its intersection with C.R. 300 W extending approximately half a 20    7-3           4-14-
N         mile west                                                                                69
C.R. 800  In the immediate housing area                                        30    7-5           9-13-
N                                                                                                  76
C.R. 800  From C.R. 775 N to C.R. 125 E                                        30            2003- 12-9-
N                                                                                            19    03
C.R. 800  From Highway 421 to C.R. 450 W and from Long Lane to Highway 39      45            2002- 5-21-
S                                                                                            07    02
C.R. 850  Between C.R. 300 W and State Highway 39 in Springfield Township      35    7-6     86-7  8-11-
N                                                                                                  86
C.R. 850  From Emery Rd. N to the Michigan State Line                          40            2002- 2-13-
E                                                                                            02    02
C.R. 850  Between C.R. 200 N and C.R. 400 N                                    40    7-7           7-20-
W                                                                                                  70
C.R. 850  From C.R. 300 N to C.R. 400 N                                        45            1996- 10-21-
W                                                                                            17    96
C.R. 900  From its intersection with C.R. 350 N to its intersection with C.R.  30            2001- 6-5-01
E         850 N                                                                              09
C.R. 900  From State Rd. 4 to C.R. 200 S                                       45    7-8     R. 1- 5-14-
E                                                                                            79    79
C.R. 900  From Chicago Rd. to 700 N                                            45            2002- 7-30-
E                                                                                            14    02
C.R. 900  From Highway 39 to C.R. 125 E                                        40            2001- 9-11-
N                                                                                            15    01
C.R. 900  In the immediate housing area                                        30    7-5           9-13-
N                                                                                                  76
C.R. 900  In Springfield Township west of C.R. 500 W and east of C.R. 600 W    30            97-8  6-3-97
N
C.R. 900  Between Pahs Rd. and 400 N                                           35            2002- 7-30-
W                                                                                            12    02
C.R. 925  From State Rd. 4 to C.R. 200 S                                       45    7-8     R. 1- 5-14-
E                                                                                            79    79
C.R. 950  North of C.R. 300 N                                                  35            97-24 9-23-
W                                                                                                  97
C.R. 1000 Between S.R. 39 and C.R. 900 E                                       40            2001- 12-4-
N                                                                                            23    02
C.R. 1000 From Highway 39 to I-94                                              40    7-7           5-28-
N                                                                                                  74
C.R. 1000 In Noble Township from its intersection with C.R. 600 W east to its  40    7-7     93-1  1-25-
S         intersection with C.R. 400 W                                                             93
C.R.      Between Highway 30 and C.R. 1100 S                                   40    7-7           4-26-
1025W                                                                                              65
C.R.      From C.R. 1350 to C.R. 1500 S                                        40    7-7     R.    10-3-
1050W                                                                                        10-78 78
          In Section 6, Coolspring Township, from its intersection with County               R.    6-21-
Earl Rd.  Line Rd. east along its entire length to its intersection with       30    7-5     82-6  82
          Hitchcock St.
Emery Rd. From the Toll Rd. overpass to the dead end on Walker Rd. in Hudson   30    7-5     89-12 8-21-
          Township                                                                                 89
Emery Rd. From Toll Rd. to C.R. 850 E                                          30    7-5           8-10-
                                                                                                   70
Fail Rd.  Between Highways 2 and 20                                            45    7-8           8-5-57
Fail Rd.  Between Division Rd./Ohio St. to LaPorte County limits               40            2005- 6-21-
                                                                                             09    05
Fir Rd.   From Lakeshore Dr. to Center St.                                     20    7-3           8-14-
                                                                                                   78
Forrester North from its intersection with C.R. 125 N, a distance of three     35            1996- 2-20-
Rd.       tenths of a mile                                                                   2     96
                                                                                             1995- 8-28-
Garden    Between Small Rd. and Waverly Rd.                                    30            15;   95; 2-
St.                                                                                          2019- 6-19
                                                                                             1
Glenwood  From State Rd. 4 to the end of Glenwood Dr.                          25    7-4     R.    7-13-
Dr.                                                                                          81-2  81
Goldring  In Coolspring Township from its intersection with C.R. 300 N to its  30    7-5     88-1  1-4-88
Rd.       intersection with Small Rd. in Center Township
Hanson                                                                                             9-12-
Rd. (C.R. From U.S. 20 north to Tryon Rd. (C.R. 800W)                          30    7-5           60
400W)
Holton    Between Waverly Rd. and Island Dr.                                   40            97-6  5-20-
Rd.                                                                                                97
Johnson   From Beacon Hills Dr. to a point 800 feet west of the west entrance  20    7-3           11-3-
Rd.       to Center Township School, a distance of approximately 1,600 feet                        58
Johnson   From the junction of U.S. 35 to the west junction of Holton Rd., a   35    7-6           11-3-
Rd.       distance of approximately 2,900 feet                                                     58
Johnson   From the west intersection of Holton Rd. to Beacon Hills Dr., a      30    7-5           11-3-
Rd.       distance of approximately 1,850 feet                                                     58
Johnson   From its intersection with U.S. 20 south to its intersection with    45    7-8     82-1  2-8-82
Rd.       State Rd. 35, except where lower speeds are already posted
Johnson   To the Toll Rd., except for Center Township School which shall       35    7-6           5-27-
Rd.       remain 20 mph from the Toll Rd. north to Highway 20 at 45 mph                            68
Joliet    On both sides                                                        35    7-6           5-3-71
Rd.
Joliet    Between C.R. 400 W and Long Lane                                     30    7-5     85-3  4-15-
Rd.                                                                                                85
Joliet    From C.R. 400 W to C.R. 900 W                                        45    7-7-5   2002- 12-17-
Rd.                                                                                          22    02
Joliet    From C.R. 900 W to the Westville town limits                         35  7-65    2002- 12-17-
Rd.                                                                                          21    02
Lakeshore In Duneland Beach only                                               30    7-5           1-11-
Dr.                                                                                                71
Lakeshore From C.R. 400 S (Ironwood Dr.) to the dead end                       20    7-3           8-14-
Dr.                                                                                                78
Lofgren   Between State Rd. 2 and C.R. 150 N                                   30    7-5     R. 3- 6-12-
Rd.                                                                                          78    78
          At the Grand Trunk Railroad - Long Lane Crossing, on both sides of                 11-1- 11-1-
Long Lane the crossing and within 500 feet of the railroad in accordance with  30    7-5     76a   76
          Section 2B-10 of the Manual on the Uniform Traffic Control Devices
Madura                                                                        30            2005- --
Rd.                                                                                          13
Maple Dr. To the dead end                                                      10    7-1           9-17-
                                                                                                   56
Mayflower In Scipio Township between 18th St. and State Rd. 2                  20    7-3           7-7-58
Rd.
Meer Rd.                                                                                           1-23-
(C.R.     From its intersection with U.S. 12 to its intersection with U.S. 20  30    7-5     89-1  89
600W)
Michigan  In Rolling Prairie between U.S. 20 and Wiley Rd. in Kankakee         30    7-5     85-2  4-15-
St.       Township                                                                                 85
Orchard                                                                       30    7-5           5-3-54
Ave.
Otis Rd.                                                                      40            2018- 2-7-18
                                                                                             1
Range Rd.                                                                     40            2003- 12-9-
                                                                                             18    03
Range Rd. Between its intersection with U.S. Highway 20 and its intersection   35            1995- 9-11-
          with C.R. 450 N                                                                    18    95
Schultz   In Coolspring Township from its intersection with Johnson Rd. to its 40    7-7     89-14 10-2-
Rd.       intersection with U.S. 35 in Center Township                                             89
Schultz   From its intersection with U.S. 35 in Center Township to its                             8-15-
Rd.       intersection with C.R. 600 W, the township boundary line between     40    7-7     94-17 94
          Center and Coolspring, and the road turns into C.R. 400N
Schumaker
Rd. (C.R. South of U.S. 20 and north of C.R. 450 N                             30    7-5           6-6-55
325 W)
Severs    Between Fail Rd. and Highway 39, for truck traffic                   30            99-11 10-12-
Rd.                                                                                                99
Severs    From Highway 35 to Fail Rd.                                          40    7-7     2000- 5-3-00
Rd.                                                                                          9
Shady Oak Between Birchwood Trail and Michiana Dr. in Springfield Township     30    7-5     84-5  8-6-84
Dr.
Small Rd. From its intersection with Garden St. to Orr Lake Rd. in Center      30    7-5     87-5  6-29-
          Township                                                                                 87
Small Rd. From Garden St. to Chalik’s Farm                                   30    7-5           8-13-
                                                                                                   73
Snyder    In New Durham Township from its intersection with U.S. 421 to its    30    7-5     92-1  1-21-
Rd.       intersection with County Line Rd.                                                        92
Johnson   At the Summit Curve                                                  40    7-7           9-27-
Rd.                                                                                                76
Travis    Highway 35 to Stillwell, a distance of four and one-half miles       40    7-7           6-18-
Rd. East                                                                                           56
Tioga     In front of the Saugany Lake Store                                   20    7-3           6-4-73
Trail
Walker    In Hudson Township from its intersection with Chicago Rd. to its     30    7-5     89-10 7-31-
Rd.       intersection with Emery Rd.                                                              89
Waverly   Between its intersection with C.R. 400 W and Garden St., in Center   35            97-6  5-20-
Rd.       Township                                                                                 97
Waverly   Between the Indiana Toll Rd. and C.R. 400 W                          40            97-6  5-20-
Rd.                                                                                                97
Welnetz   In Coolspring Township between Woodland Ave. and the town limits of  30    7-5     89-11 8-21-
Rd.       Trail Creek                                                                              89
Wozniak   From its intersection with C.R. 125 N in Coolspring Township south   45    7-8     87-2  4-6-87
Rd.       to its intersection with State Rd. 2 in New Durham Township
Wozniak   Where it intersects with C.R. 450 N                                  20    7-3           6-13-
Rd.                                                                                                83
Wozniak   From C.R. 450 N to Johnson Rd.                                       20    7-3     84-6  8-6-84
Rd.
Wozniak   From its intersection with C.R. 450 N to its intersection with C.R.  35    7-6     87-1  4-6-87
Rd.       125 N in Coolspring Township
Wozniak   From State Rd. 2 to C.R. 350 S                                       35    7-6     2003- 9-2-03
Rd.                                                                                          14
Zigler    In Center and Scipio Townships, from State Rd. 2 to 5th St.          35            98-12 7-14-
Rd.                                                                                                98
 
(Ord. 82-2, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 2004-11, passed 6-22-04) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV.  YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following locations shall have yield-right-of-way signs installed
pursuant to I.C. 9-21-8-33.
Street Traffic Direction Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street       Traffic Direction Location                   Ord. No. Date Passed
C.R. 640 W                     At Forrester                        12-4-59
C.R. 400 W                     At C.R. 750 N                       12-4-59
C.R. 500 W                     At C.R. 750 N                       12-4-59
C.R. 725 W                     At C.R. 275 N                       12-4-59
Forrester                      At C.R. 125 N                       12-4-59
                               On southwest corner of the
Michigan St. Eastbound         intersection with Wiley    88-4     3-28-88
                               Rd., in Rolling Prairie,
                               Kankakee Township
                               On northeast corner of the
Waverly Rd.  Westbound         intersection with Holton   88-3     3-28-88
                               Rd., in Center Township
 
(`88 Code, § 7-13) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE V.  STOP INTERSECTIONS AND SIGNS.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners has the authority under I.C. 9-21-4-
11, in accordance with the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
for Streets and Highways, to designate stop signs at intersections.
   (B)   After the intersections listed in divisions (C) and (D) below are
posted, it shall be an infraction under I.C. 9-21-4-19 for any person to
disregard these signs.
(`88 Code, § 7-14)
   (C)   Upon the County Police Department and the County Highway Department
recommendation that it is essential for the safety of the traveling public to
erect stop signs, the following locations are designated.
Street(s) Location Traffic Direction Type of Stop `88 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
                   (s)
                                                                Traffic    Type   `88  Ord.  Date
Street(s)  Location                                             Direction  of     Code No.   Passed
                                                                (s)        Stop
Aster Dr.  At Glenwood Dr.                                                        7-14 R.    7-13-
                                                                                       81-3  81
Blueridge  Shaker Hills subdivision                                        Three-      2004- 7-6-04
Dr.                                                                        way         12
Bootjack                                                                   Four-       2001- 2-27-
Rd. and                                                                    way         5     01
C.R. 600 E
Burgundy   Where it opens into Malaga Dr., on the northeast
Court,     corner                                               Westbound              97-5  5-6-97
west end
Burgundy
Trail,     At Malaga Dr., on the southwest corner               Eastbound              97-5  5-6-97
east end
Burgundy
Trail,     At Malaga Dr., on the northeast corner               Westbound              97-5  5-6-97
west end
Carmelo    At Skyline Dr.                                                              95-11 5-8-95
Lane
Carmelo    At Van Gogh Trail                                                           95-11 5-8-95
Lane
Centauria
Court,     At Sand Ridge Rd., on the northeast corner           Westbound              97-10 7-8-97
west end
Chicago    At C.R. 700 N, on the southeast corner               Northbound             2004- 10-19-
Trail                                                                                  15    04
Colson     At Potato Hole Court, in Wills Township                                     99-13 10-12-
Court                                                                                        99
Coolspring                                                                                   7-14-
Ave. and                                                                          7-14       69
Sol Court
Country
Club Dr.   In Beacon Hills                                                 Three- 7-14       9-26-
and Holton                                                                 way               69
Rd.
                                                                Northbound                   7-27-
C.R. 50 W  At C.R. 400 N                                        and               7-14 92-6  92
                                                                southbound
C.R. 150 N At intersection with Fail Rd.                                   Four-       2004- 9-7-04
                                                                           way         14
           At C.R. 100 S, with 100S being the through street,   Northbound             2000- 12-21-
C.R. 300 E south junction and north junction                    and                    32    00
                                                                southbound
C.R. 300 N                                                                 Four-       2001- 8-28-
and 850 W                                                                  way         12    01
C.R. 300 N                                                                 Four-       2002- 6-4-02
and 950 W                                                                  way         8
C.R. 400 N On west side of Johnson Rd.                                            7-14       8-24-
                                                                                             70
C.R. 400 S                                                                 Four-       2000- 4-18-
and 75 W                                                                   way         7     00
C.R. 400 S At C.R. 500 W, with 500 W being the through street                     7-14       4-10-
                                                                                             67
C.R. 400 N
and                                                                        Four-  7-14       10-14-
Wozniak                                                                    way               68
Rd.
C.R. 450 N South of the railroad underpass, in Center Township             Four-  7-14 88-7; 3-28-
and 325 W                                                                  way         88-8  88
C.R. 500 W                                                                 Four-  7-   2003-
and Joliet                                                                 way    14B  10    6-3-03
Rd.
C.R. 525 W At intersection with C.R. 400 N (Schultz Rd.)                   Four-       2004- 8-17-
                                                                           way         13    04
C.R. 600 E In Wills Township                                               Four-  7-14 R.    7-13-
and 350 N                                                                  way         81-3  81
C.R. 600 E Intersection south of C.R. 700 N at the St. John                       7-14       11-26-
           Canty Church                                                                      73
C.R. 600 W                                                                 Four-  7-14       8-18-
and 450 N                                                                  way               69
C.R. 600 W Stop on C.R. 800 S                                                     7-14       11-1-
and 800 S  (slow on C.R. 600 W)                                                              65
C.R. 600 W                                                                 Four-  7-14       11-1-
and 900 S                                                                  way               65
C.R. 650 N
and                                                                        Four-       2019- 3-20-
Wilhelm                                                                    way         4     19
Rd.
C.R. 700 N Emery Rd.                                                       Four-       2013- 8-21-
                                                                           way         07    13
C.R. 700 N                                                                 Three-      2000- 10-10-
and New    Between Emery Rd. and East Lake Park Dr.                        way         24    00
York Rd.
           At Long Lane, on the southeast and northwest         Northbound                   10-12-
C.R. 800 S corners, in Noble Township                           and                    99-13 99
                                                                southbound
C.R. 800 S                                                                             2013-
(Tracy     At Range Road                                                   All-        10A;  10-2-
Rd.)                                                                       way         2013- 13
                                                                                       11A
C.R. 1000                                                                  Four-             12-19-
E and 150                                                                  way    7-14       77
N
C.R. 1050  At C.R. 1350 S                                       Southbound             2001- 4-24-
W                                                                                      08    01
C.R. 1100                                                                                    12-17-
W and 600                                                                         7-14       73
S
C.R. 1400                                                                  Four-       2011-
S and Long                                                                 way         10    9-6-11
Lane
C.R. 1500                                                                  Four-       2004- 12-21-
S and 900                                                                  way         17    04
W
Cove Court At Sportsman Lane, in Hunter’s Run                                        99-13 10-12-
                                                                                             99
Crestview  At Circleview Lane, in Crestview Unit 4              Northbound             2000- 1-11-
Dr.                                                                                    1     00
Crestview  At C.R. 150N, in Crestview Unit 4                    Southbound             2000- 1-11-
Dr.                                                                                    1     00
Crestview  At C.R. 400 W                                        Eastbound              2000- 5-16-
Lane                                                                                   10    00
Crestview                                                       Eastbound              2000- 1-11-
Lane       At Crestview Dr., in Crestview Unit 4                and                    1     00
                                                                westbound
Detroit
St. and    On the northwest, northeast, and southwest corners,                    7-14 R.    7-13-
John Emery in Hudson Township                                                          81-3  81
Rd.
Eastwood                                                                                     6-18-
and        Northwest corner                                                       7-14       56
Oakdale
Forrester                                                       Northbound             1995- 9-25-
Rd.        At C.R. 125 N                                        and                    19    95
                                                                southbound
Forrester                                                                  Four-       2011-
Rd. and                                                                    way         09    8-2-11
C.R. 50 S
Forrester                                                                  Three-            10-26-
Rd. and    At the corners                                                  way    7-14       71
C.R. 350N
Glenview                                                                                     6-18-
and        On the southeast corner                                                7-14       56
Oakdale
Glenview                                                                                     6-18-
and        On the northwest corner                                                7-14       56
Oakdale
Hitchcock                                                                                    10-7-
St. and                                                                           7-14       68
Earl Rd.
Hudson     At Lakeshore Dr., on the northwest corner, in Hudson Southbound        7-14 88-5  3-28-
Blvd.      Township                                                                          88
Island Dr. At Judith Place                                                 All-        2014- 6-4-14
                                                                           way         03
Lakeshore  At Hudson Blvd., on the southwest and northeast      Eastbound                    3-28-
Dr.        corners, in Hudson Township                          and               7-14 88-6  88
                                                                westbound
Lakeshore  At 32nd, 33rd, and 35th, in Duneland Beach                             7-14       7-12-
Dr.                                                                                          71
Lakeview   At Glenwood Dr., on the northwest corner                               7-14       9-28-
Dr.                                                                                          81
Lakewood   At Glenwood Dr., Fish Lake, Lincoln Township                           7-14 R.    7-13-
Dr.                                                                                    81-3  81
Larkspur
Court,     At Sand Ridge Rd., on the northeast corner           Westbound              97-10 7-8-97
west end
Lawndale                                                                                     6-18-
and        On the northwest corner                                                7-14       56
Oakdale
Lawndale                                                                                     6-18-
and        On the southeast corner                                                7-14       56
Oakdale
Laxita Dr.                                                                                   11-15-
and C.R.   Indian Estates                                                         7-14       76
525W
Malaga Dr. At Schultz Rd., in Concord Vineyard Unit 1                                  1996- 8-12-
(east)                                                                                 15    96
Malaga Dr. At Schultz Rd., in Concord Vineyard Unit 1                                  1996- 8-12-
(west)                                                                                 15    96
Meadow     At Remington Square, in Hunter’s Run                                      99-13 10-12-
Court                                                                                        99
Meer Rd.                                                                   Four-             6-29-
and Tryon                                                                  way    7-14       59
Rd.
Meritage   At Meritage Trail, in Woods of Concord II                                   99-13 10-12-
Court                                                                                        99
Meritage   At Concord Dr., in Woods of Concord II                                      99-13 10-12-
Trail                                                                                        99
Moon and                                                                          7-14       6-29-
Tryon Rd.                                                                                    59
Morning
Glory      At Sand Ridge Rd., on the northwest corner           Southbound             97-10 7-8-97
Ave.,
south end
Oak Grove
Rd. and                                                                    Four-             6-29-
Pumping                                                                    way    7-14       55
Station
Rd.
Park St.,
C.R. 100                                                                   Three- 7-14       4-16-
W, and                                                                     way               73
Severs Rd.
Parkview                                                                                     6-18-
and        On the northwest corner                                                7-14       56
Oakdale
Pine Ridge At Rustic Dr., south of Wild Cherry, in Rustic Hills                        1996- 8-26-
Dr.                                                                                    16    96
Potato     At C.R. 800 E, in Wills Township                                            99-13 10-12-
Hole Court                                                                                   99
Range Rd.  At C.R. 800 S, in Union Township                     Southbound             2000- 4-18-
                                                                                       8     00
                                                                                       2013-
Range Rd.  At C.R. 700 N                                                   All-        10;   10-2-
                                                                           way         2013- 13
                                                                                       14A
Remington  At Hunter’s Glen, in Hunter’s Run                                       99-13 10-12-
Square                                                                                       99
Remington  Where it intersects the east-west portion of                                      10-12-
Square     Remington Square west of Meadow Court, in Hunter’s Southbound             99-13 99
southbound Run
Riesling   At Malaga Dr., in Concord Vineyard Unit 1                                   1996- 8-12-
Court                                                                                  15    96
Riesling   At Malaga Dr. (east), in Concord Vineyard Unit 1                            1996- 8-12-
Trail                                                                                  15    96
Riesling   At Malaga Dr. (west), in Concord Vineyard Unit 1                            1996- 8-12-
Trail                                                                                  15    96
Rustic     At Rustic Dr., in Rustic Hills                                              1996- 8-26-
Court                                                                                  16    96
Sand Ridge
Rd., east  At C.R. 350 E, on the southwest corner               Eastbound              97-10 7-8-97
end
Sand Ridge
Rd., south At Sundew Dr., on the northwest corner               Southbound             97-10 7-8-97
end
Sol Court                                                                                    7-14-
and Weldtz                                                                        7-14       69
Rd.
Sportsman  At Fail Rd., in Hunter’s Run                                              99-13 10-12-
Lane                                                                                         99
Sportsman  At Winchester Dr., in Hunter’s Run                                        99-13 10-12-
Lane                                                                                         99
Summit Dr. At Crestview Lane                                    Southbound             2000- 5-16-
                                                                                       10    00
Sundew
Dr., east  At C.R. 350 E, on the southwest corner               Eastbound              97-10 7-8-97
end
Vintage    At Malaga Dr. (west), in Concord Vineyard Unit 3                            99-13 10-12-
Court                                                                                        99
Waverly
Rd. (C.R.                                                                  Four-       97-6  5-20-
150N) and                                                                  way               97
C.R. 400 W
Wild       At Pine Ridge Dr., in Rustic Hills                                          1996- 8-26-
Cherry                                                                                 16    96
Wild       At Rustic Dr., in Rustic Hills                                              1996- 8-26-
Cherry                                                                                 16    96
Wilhelm                                                                    Four-       1996- 3-11-
Rd. and                                                                    way    7-14 4     96
C.R. 900N
Winchester At Remington Square, in Hunter’s Run                                      99-13 10-12-
Dr.                                                                                          99
Woodland                                                                                     4-26-
Ave. at                                                                           7-14       65
C.R. 500 N
 
   (D)   “Stop” signs and “Stop Ahead” signs shall be erected on the following
county roads where the roads intersect with railroad tracks.
County Road Railroad D.O.T . A.A.R. No.
County Road            Railroad                  D.O.T . A.A.R. No.
C.R. 100 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  532975J
C.R. 150 E             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483306M
C.R. 200 E             Grand Trunk               283396G
C.R. 250 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  478603V
C.R. 300 E             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483311J
C.R. 300 S             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483314E
C.R. 300 W (Long Lane) Conrail/Norfolk Southern  478604C
C.R. 300 W (Long Lane) Conrail/Norfolk Southern  532978E
C.R. 350 E             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483312R
C.R. 350 N             Conrail                   522588P
C.R. 375 W             C.S.X.                    232002E
C.R. 400 E             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483315L
C.R. 400 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  478606R
C.R. 400 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483289Y
C.R. 400 W             Northern Indiana Commuter 870430K
                       Transportation District
C.R. 450 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  532982V
C.R. 450 W             C.S.X.                    231992T
C.R. 450 W             Grand Trunk               283280K
C.R. 500 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  478608E
C.R. 500 W             C.S.X.                    155496P
C.R. 525 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483286D
C.R. 550 E             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483318G
C.R. 550 E             C.S.X.                    155487R
C.R. 600 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  478611M
C.R. 600 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483284P
C.R. 600 W             C.S.X.                    231984B
C.R. 600 W (Meer Rd.)  C.S.X.                    232069L
C.R. 675 E             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  482853P
C.R. 675 E             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483322W
C.R. 700 E             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483324K
C.R. 700 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  478612U
C.R. 700 W             C.S.X.                    155498D
C.R. 700 W             Grand Trunk               283267W
C.R. 750 E             C.S.X.                    155485C
C.R. 750 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  532986W
C.R. 800 E             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  482851G
C.R. 800 W             C.S.X.                    155499K
C.R. 800 W             Grand Trunk               283266P
C.R. 875 E             C.S.X.                    155484V
C.R. 875 W             C.S.X.                    231977R
C.R. 900 S             C.S.X.                    232007N
C.R. 900 W             Conrail/Norfolk Southern  478617D
C.R. 900 W             C.S.X.                    155600G
C.R. 1000 E            Conrail/Norfolk Southern  482845X
C.R. 1050 S            C.S.X.                    232004T
C.R. 1100 E            Grand Trunk               283310A
C.R. 1100 W            Conrail/Norfolk Southern  532994N
C.R. 1100 W            C.S.X.                    155603C
C.R. 1100 W            C.S.X.                    232023R
C.R. 1150 W            Grand Trunk               283262M
C.R. 1200 S            C.S.X.                    232003L
C.R. 1300 S            C.S.X.                    231997C
C.R. 1350 S            Conrail/Norfolk Southern  478620L
C.R. 1375 S            C.S.X.                    231991L
C.R. 1400 S            Conrail/Norfolk Southern  532976R
C.R. 1425 S            C.S.X.                    231990E
C.R. 1450 S            Conrail/Norfolk Southern  478616W
C.R. 1475 S            C.S.X.                    231989K
C.R. 1500 S            C.S.X.                    231986P
C.R. 1600 S            Conrail/Norfolk Southern  478609K
C.R. 1700 S            C.S.X.                    231983U
C.R. 1750 S            Conrail/Norfolk Southern  478602N
2nd St.                C.S.X.                    232009C
3rd St.                C.S.X.                    232010W
“A” St.            Grand Trunk               283279R
Hopper St.             C.S.X.                    231994G
Hupp Rd.               Conrail/Norfolk Southern  482854W
Hupp Rd.               Conrail/Norfolk Southern  483316T
Hupp Rd.               Grand Trunk               283 Spur No #
Range Rd.              Northern Indiana Commuter 870424G
                       Transportation District
Young St.              C.S.X.                    231995N
 
(`88 Code, § 7-65)  (Ord. 95-7, passed 3-6-95) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VI.  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3, it shall be unlawful for any vehicle to
disregard one-way arrows.
   (B)   The County Highway Department is directed and ordered to post one-way
arrows and reflectors in the following locations.
 
Roadway          Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Emery Rd. Bridge East side of the bridge                          9-13-76
Lakeshore Dr.    From Hudson Boulevard to Hollyhock Lane, 94-20    9-19-94
                 in Center Township
 
(`88 Code, § 7-21) 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VII.  OTHER SIGNAGE.
   (A)   “Stop Ahead” signs shall be posted at the following locations.
 
Streets      Location                     `88 Code Section Ord. No. Date Passed
             Prior to the intersection
C.R. 600 E   south of 700 N at the St.    7-15                      11-26-73
             John Canty Church
             Prior to intersections with
County roads railroad tracks, as listed   7-65             95-7     3-6-95
             in Chapter 74, Schedule V(D)
             above
 
   (B)   “Dangerous Intersection” signs shall be posted at the following
locations.
 
Streets                          Location `88 Code Section Ord. No. Date Passed
Johnson Rd. and Country Club Dr.         7-17                      9-10-73
 
   (C)   “Slow” signs shall be posted in the following locations.
 
Streets    Location                       `88 Code Section Ord. No. Date Passed
C.R. 600 N South of the first hill in the 7-23                      9-5-78
           northbound lane
C.R. 600 N In the southbound lane close   7-23                      9-5-78
           to the cemetery on Fail Rd.
           At its intersection with C.R.
C.R. 600 W 800 S                          7-14                      11-1-65
           (Traffic stops on 800 S)
 
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-4-13, it shall be unlawful for any vehicle to
pass another vehicle in the following designated areas.  The County Highway
Department is directed and ordered to post all areas designated below with
signs indicating a “No Passing” zone.
 
Streets     Location                     `88 Code Section Ord. No. Date Passed
Johnson Rd. Between Country Club Dr. and 7-25             R. 6-78  8-7-78
            Evergreen Lane
 
   (E)   “Snowmobile Crossing Ahead” signs shall be posted in the following
locations.
 
Streets                   Location    `88 Code Section Ord. No. Date Passed
Scholl Rd. and C.R. 150 N In the area 7-24                      11-27-78
 
   (F)   “No Dumping” signs shall be erected at the following locations.
 
Streets    Location         `88 Code Section Ord. No. Date Passed
C.R. 600 W South of U.S. 20 7-20                      4-1-68
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 75:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Loading zones
SCHEDULE I.  LOADING ZONES.
   “Loading Zone” signs shall be posted in the following locations.
 
Location                       `88 Code Section
Northeast entrance of the jail 7-22
 
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ALARM SYSTEMS
   
91.   FAIR HOUSING
   
92.   PUBLIC POOLS, SPAS, HOT TUBS, SPRAY GROUNDS
   
93.   PARKS; REGULATIONS ON CONDUCT
   
94.   ANIMALS
   
95.   ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
   
96.   OUTDOOR HYDRONIC HEATERS
   
97.   CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS
   
98.   RAILROAD MOBILE CAMPS
   
99.   SALE OF SUBSTANCES CONTAINING SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
CHAPTER 90:  ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Removal of alarm monitoring systems
   
90.03   Automatic dialing devices prohibited
   
90.04   False alarms; notice of fines
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM.  Any device, silent or audible, which is designed to be
actuate activated manually or automatically upon the detection of an
unauthorized entry, intrusion, fire, or other emergency, in or on any building,
structure, facility, or premises, which when activated leads to notifications
being made directly or indirectly to the Public Safety Communications Center or
to any agency for which the Public Safety Communications Center serves as
dispatcher.  ALARM SYSTEM shall not include:
      (1)   An alarm system installed on a motor vehicle; provided, however,
that this system shall be required to comply with the requirements contained in
§ 90.03 below;
      (2)   A medical alarm system; or
      (3)   An alarm system installed upon premises occupied by the United
States, the State of Indiana, or any political subdivision thereof.
   AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DIALING DEVICE.  Any device connected to an alarm system
which when activated automatically dials a predetermined telephone number and
sends a prerecorded message or coded signal.
   FALSE ALARM.  Any signal request or similar event, the purpose of which is
to summon Police or Fire Department assistance, but which is not in response to
an actual or threatened emergency or criminal activity.  FALSE ALARMS include
any communication, either directly or indirectly, to the Police or Fire
Department, by a central station, intermediary, or signal device, which is in
response to a signal or warning issued intentionally or accidentally;
negligently or accidentally activated signals; signals which are the result of
faulty, malfunctioning, or improperly installed or maintained equipment; and
signals which are purposely, but improperly, activated to alert or summon the
Police or Fire Department.  FALSE ALARMS shall not include signals activated by
unusually severe weather conditions or other natural causes.
   KNOX-BOX TYPE SYSTEM.  An alarm system that as a standard feature provides a
fire-proof safe that is installed outside of a building, structure, or other
facility and which permits the responding agency to have access to the fire-
proof safe, which contains information about the facility, its contents, and
the alarm system.
   PERSON.  An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership,
consortium, joint venture, trust, estate, or any other legal entity, group, or
organization.
(Ord. 96-19, passed 12-2-96)
§ 90.02  REMOVAL OF ALARM MONITORING SYSTEMS.
   All personal and private alarm monitoring systems, except those mandated to
be monitored by government under federal law, shall be removed from all county
facilities on or before January 1, 1997.
(Ord. 96-19, passed 12-2-96)
§ 90.03  AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use, install, or permit the use or
installation of any automatic telephone dialing device which is programmed to
dial 911, the County Sheriff’s Communications Center, or any agency for which
the county Communications Center serves as dispatcher.
   (B)   Any existing automatic telephone dialing device must be disconnected
or programmed to any other consenting party within 30 days after the effective
date of this chapter.
   (C)   The Director of the county’s E-911 may waive the restrictions in
division (A) above and permit an automatic telephone dialing device on alarm
systems that are a Knox-Box type.  If a Knox-Box type system is approved by the
Director and installed, the automatic telephone dialing device must be
programmed to dial 219-362-7011.  No system shall be programmed to dial 911.
   (D)   County-owned buildings and school corporations within the county may
use dial alarms specifically programmed to call 219-362-7011.  Users must then
supply the county Communications Center with a call list for after hours. 
(Ord. 96-19, passed 12-2-96; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 3-18-97) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.04  FALSE ALARMS; NOTICE OF FINES.
   (A)   Any alarm user who has false alarms on more than four occasions in any
12-month period shall be fined for each false alarm in excess of four occurring
within a 12-month period.
   (B)   A fine shall be due and payable by the alarm user within ten days
after written notice from the County Sheriff of the violation.  In the event
that the alarm user does not pay his or her fine as assessed, the county may
also take appropriate legal action to enforce the collection of the fine, and
the alarm user shall be liable to the county for all court costs and attorney’s
fees necessary to collect the fines.  In addition thereto, the county shall be
permitted to seek injunctive relief.
   (C)   All fines shall be payable to the county and fines collected shall be
deposited into the county’s General Fund.
(Ord. 96-19, passed 12-2-96) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 91:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy statement
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practice
   
91.04   Discrimination in housing sales or rentals
   
91.05   Discrimination in residential real estate related transactions
   
91.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
91.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
91.08   Prevention of intimidation, injury, and interference
   
91.09   Exemptions
   
91.10   Administrative enforcement
   
91.11   Equal access to housing in HUD Programs
   
91.12   Severability of provisions
§ 91.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 USC 3601), as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 USC 5301 et seq.), as
amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 8-22-00)
Statutory reference:
   Exemptions, see I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq.
§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON.  (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)  Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that he or she will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION.  (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)  The state Civil Rights Commission created
pursuant to I.C. 22-9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT.  (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)  A person, including the Commission, who
files a complaint under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISABLED. 
      (1)   With respect to a person, the term shall include:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of the person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having this type of an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having this type of an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 USC 12101 et seq.); or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term DISABLED shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 (21
USC 802 et seq.) of the United States Code (I.C. 22-9.5-2-10(b)); nor does the
term DISABLED include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite (I.C. 22-9.5-2-10(c)).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE.  An act that is unlawful under §§ 91.04
through 91.08 of this code or I.C. 22-9.5-5 et seq.
   DWELLING.  Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.  One or more individuals who have not attained the age of
18 being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or another person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
      (1)   COMMISSION (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3) means Indiana Civil Rights Commission
created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-1-4, et seq.
      (2)   COMPLAINANT (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4) means a person, including the
Commission, who files a complaint under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   FAMILY.  A single individual is included (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status
of the family being further defined in the definition of FAMILIAL STATUS.
   PERSON.  (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)  One or more individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, non- incorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 (11 USC 101 et seq.) of the United
States Code, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT.  (I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)  To lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise
to grant for a  consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by
the occupant.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 8-22-00; Am. Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-5-14)
Statutory reference:
   Discrimination in the sale or rental of a dwelling, see I.C. 22-9.5-5
   Conciliation agreements, see I.C. 22-9.5-6
§ 91.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, § 91.09 of this code,
and I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq., the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in § 91.04 of this code
shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-
9.5-3 et seq.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in § 91.04
shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
any one time; provided that in the sale of a single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale, the exemption
shall apply only to one sale within any 24-month period.  The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his
or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from
the sale or rental of more than three single-family houses at any one time. 
The sale or rental of any single-family house shall be excepted from
application of this section only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of § 91.04(C) of this code; but
nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents,
abstracters, title companies, and other professional assistance as necessary to
perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of these living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 8-22-00)
Statutory reference:
   Discrimination in the sale or rental of a dwelling, see I.C. 22-9.5-5
   Exemptions, see I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq.
§ 91.04  DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING SALES OR RENTALS.
   As made applicable by §
91.03 and except as exempted by §§
91.03(B) and
91.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling, that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin,
or an intention to make this type of preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when that dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status, or national origin; or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with a dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   For the purpose of division (F) above, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISCRIMINATION.  Any of the following:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
that person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1993, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in a
manner so that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within these dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in the bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about that space.
   (H)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 USC 12101 et seq.) and of the American National
Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for
physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A 117.1) suffices to
satisfy the requirements of division (G)(c)3.c. above.
   (I)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 8-22-00) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making a transaction available, or in the
terms or conditions of a transaction, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTION.  Any of the following:
         (a)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
            1.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
            2.   Secured by residential real estate.
         (b)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real
property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 8-22-00) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of access, membership, or participation, on account
of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 8-22-00) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§ 91.03 through 91.06 of this code.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 8-22-00) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION, INJURY, AND INTERFERENCE.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under cover of law, by force of threat or
threat of force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts
to injure, intimidate, or interfere with any person listed as follows, shall be
fined according to local, state, and federal law:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service or any facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage that citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 8-22-00) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to those persons,
unless membership in that religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin.  Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club
not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of that lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS.  Housing which is:
            1.   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
            2.   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age
or older; or
            3.   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 8-22-00)
§ 91.10  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) hereof shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the county, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the state Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 et seq., and the chief elected
official of the county shall refer all these complaints to the Commission as
provided for under division (A) of this section for purposes of investigation,
resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6 et seq.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further these purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the county, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting this information.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 8-22-00)
Statutory reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see I.C. 22-9.5-6
§ 91.11  EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 the definition of "family" is revised to
include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation,
gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-5-14)
§ 91.12  SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of the chapter
and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly situated
or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-5-14)
CHAPTER 92:  PUBLIC POOLS, SPAS, HOT TUBS, SPRAY GROUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   State regulations adopted by reference
   
92.02   Definitions
Requirements; Design, Safety, and the Like
   
92.15   Plan review
   
92.16   Design, construction, operation and maintenance
   
92.17   Water supply and plumbing fixtures
   
92.18   Sewer systems and drains
   
92.19   Lighting and electrical requirements
   
92.20   Visitor and spectator areas; food and drink areas
   
92.21   Fencing; enclosures
   
92.22   Right of closure
   
92.23   Safety requirements; supervision
   
92.24   Suits and towels
   
92.25   Disinfection; water quality
   
92.26   Bacteriological examination
   
92.27   Physical water quality
   
92.28   Cleaning of public spas
   
92.29   Operation and supervision
   
92.30   Records of operation
   
92.31   Personal conduct
   
92.32   Temporary spas
   
92.33   Health and safety
Administration and Enforcement
   
92.45   Permit requirements
   
92.46   Power of inspection; enforcement; service of notices; order hearings
   
92.47   Request for hearing
   
92.48   Post-hearing procedures
   
92.49   Enforcement
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see §§
51.15 through
51.20
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1 (Revised) Public and Semi-Public Pools, as amended
from time to time and promulgated by the Indiana State Department of Health and
675 I.A.C. 20-2 Swimming Pool Code, as amended from time to time and
promulgated by the Indiana Fire and Building Safety Commission are hereby
incorporated and adopted by reference. One copy of said rules is on file in the
Office of the LaPorte County Health Department.
(`88 Code, § 6-175)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08)
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided below, the terms defined in 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1 and
675 I.A.C. 20 shall carry the same definitions wherever used in this chapter as
the definition provided in those regulations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BATHER. Any person using the facility and adjoining area for the purpose
of therapy, relaxation, recreation or related activities.
      CERTIFIED TRAINED OPERATOR. A person who demonstrates knowledge of pool
operation and has shown proficiency of the safe and effective operation and
maintenance of pool water through passing a test that is part of a certified
pool training program.
      DEPARTMENT. The duly appointed, qualified and acting Health Officer of
LaPorte County, Indiana, or his or her authorized representative.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, municipality, other division of government, or his or her legal
representative or agent.
      POOL. Any structure, basin, chamber, or tank containing a body of water
for swimming, diving, therapeutic, competition, relaxation or recreational use;
however, nothing in this chapter shall be construed as applying to any swimming
or wading pool constructed or maintained by an individual for the sole use of
his or her household and house guests, or to a pool in a hospital or health
facility approved by the State Department of Health, which pools is used for
individual therapy only and is drained and filled prior to each individual.
POOL shall also include auxiliary structures including chemical rooms, pump
rooms, dressing and locker rooms, toilets, showers, and other areas and
enclosures that are intended for the use of persons using the pool, but shall
not include pools and auxiliary structures and equipment at private single
family residences intended only for the use of the owner, his or her household
and house guests.
      PUBLIC. Used by persons other than the owner, his or her household and
house guests.
      RECIRCULATION EQUIPMENT. Means, but is not limited to, all piping, pumps,
filters, hair and lint strainers, heaters, gauges, automatic chemical feeders,
and flow meters.
      RECREATIONAL AQUATIC SPRAY GROUNDS. Also known as SPRAY GROUNDS. A pool
whose water is used in conjunction with a spray pad in which sprayed water is
continually drained and collected in a treatment and recirculation system.
      SEMI-PUBLIC. Any pool that is operated solely for and in conjunction
with:
         (a)   Schools, universities, hospitals, doctors’ offices, and
colleges;
         (b)   Hotels, motels, apartments, condominiums, bed and breakfasts, or
similar lodgings;
         (c)   Camps or mobile home parks; or
         (d)   Membership clubs or associations.
      SPA. A pool designed as a hydrotherapy unit used primarily for
therapeutic or relaxation purposes which is not drained, cleaned or refilled
for each individual. It does not apply to any spa used in a medical treatment
facility, which is:
         (a)   Under the direct supervision of qualified medical personnel; and
         (b)   Drained after each use.
      SPRAY FEATURES. The devices and plumbing used to convey the treated water
to the spray pad to spray the patrons.
      SPRAY PAD. The specific area consisting of the play surface, spray
features, and drains, upon which the patrons stand and are sprayed with water.
      SPRAY PAD TREATMENT SYSTEM. The equipment and processes used to filter,
disinfect and circulate the water used for the spray pad and spray features.
      SPRAY PAD TREATMENT TANK. The vessel used to collect the water that has
been sprayed on the spray pad and returned through the spray pad drains.
      TEMPORARY SPA. A portable public spa or hot tub which is installed in one
location for a period of 30 days or less.
(`88 Code, § 6-176)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08)
REQUIREMENTS; DESIGN, SAFETY, AND THE LIKE
§ 92.15  PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Prior to the construction, rehabilitation, or alteration of any pool
in LaPorte County, a plan review of the plans and specification sheets with the
approval of the State of Indiana Department of Homeland Security Plan Release
Division shall be submitted to the Health Officer for plan review. For new
construction, the plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed layout,
arrangement, mechanical plans, construction materials of work areas, and the
type and model of proposed fixed and non-fixed equipment and facilities. Plans
shall also include, but not limited to, pool area, and volume, pool inlets and
outlets, waterline, enclosure for pool area, turnover rate, filtration and
circulating system, bather load, shape and depth of pool, deck design, ladders,
steps, diving equipment, drainage systems, including backwash water, electrical
system and total dynamic head. In addition, plans shall include applicable lot
dimensions and property lines, applicable existing or proposed water wells, all
applicable subsurface drains and outlets, utilities, pipelines, and the like.
   (B)   Failure to submit the appropriate plans prior to the beginning of
construction, rehabilitation, or alteration may result in penalties as provided
in §
92.99.
   (C)   All plans shall be prepared by a person licensed to practice
engineering or architecture.
(Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16  DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Public and semi-public pools shall be designed, constructed,
maintained, and modified in accordance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 6.2-1 and
675 I.A.C. 20 of the Indiana Department of Fire and Building Services.
   (B)   Public and semi-public spas shall not be less than 1,000 gallons.
   (C)   Public and semi-public pools shall be designed in such a way that
access to all piping, pumps, automatic chemical treatment systems, and hair and
lint strainers, in the recirculation system are easily accessible for
maintenance and inspection of equipment.
   (D)   Public and semi-public pools must have color coded piping or
directional arrows on recirculation equipment.
   (E)   Spray ground design standards.
      (1)   Construction material shall be of materials which are inert,
stable, nontoxic, watertight and enduring. Sand or earth surfaces are not
permitted.
      (2)   Spray pad surface must be slip resistant and easily cleanable.
      (3)   The spray pad shall be sloped to drain(s). The slope shall be
sufficient to prevent water from collecting on the pad.
      (4)   The size, number and locations of the spray pad drains shall be
determined and specified so as to assure water does not accumulate on the spray
pads. Flow through the drains to the spray pad treatment tank shall be under
gravity, and direct suction outlets from the spray pad are prohibited.
      (5)   Valves and piping shall be provided in the spray pad drain system
to allow for discharging spray pad water to waste prior to returning to the
spray pad treatment tank.
      (6)   A continuous clear deck shall surround the entire spray pad
perimeter. It shall be not less than five feet wide. The deck shall be of a
uniform, easily cleaned, impervious material and be protected from surface
runoff.
      (7)   The deck shall be sloped at least one-fourth inch per foot to deck
drains or grade.
      (8)   Deck drains, when used, shall be spaced and arranged so that not
more than 400 square feet of area is tributary to each drain, and drains shall
not be spaced more than 25 feet apart. There shall be no direct connection
between the spray pad deck drains and the sanitary sewer system, the treatment
tank, or the recirculation system.
      (9)   Carpeting shall not be permitted on the spray pad or decks.
      (10)   Hose bibbs shall be provided to facilitate flushing of the spray
pad and deck areas and shall be provided with anti-siphonage devices.
      (11)   Spray features shall be designed and installed so as not to pose a
tripping hazard, a hazard to patrons due to water velocity from the spray
feature discharge, or other safety hazards.
      (12)   Artificial lighting shall be provided at all spray pads which are
used at night, or which do not have adequate natural lighting, so that all
portions of the spray pad and deck may be readily seen.
      (13)   All spray pad equipment and chemical storage rooms shall be
provided with artificial lighting sufficient to illuminate all equipment and
supplies.
      (14)   No electrical wiring shall pass overhead within a 20-foot
horizontal distance of the spray pad.
      (15)   Ground-fault circuit interrupters shall be provided on all spray
pads, for all lighting and other electrical circuits in the area of the spray
pad. These devices may be required in an existing spray pad, when the permit-
issuing official determines it is necessary to protect the safety of patrons.
      (16)   When water is supplied to the spray features by a pump which
removes water directly from the spray pad treatment tank independent from the
spray pad treatment tank filter pump, the turnover rate for filtration will be
determined by the feature flow rate. The filtration flow rate for the spray pad
treatment tank must be at least one-third of the design spray feature flow
rate.
      (17)   When all of the water supplied to the spray features is filtered
upon removal from the spray pad treatment tank before being supplied to the
spray features, a reduced pumping rate for filtration/treatment of the spray
pad treatment tank water can be used when the spray features are not in
operation. However, a minimum four-hour turnover rate is required.
      (18)   The minimum flow rate through the filtration system for combined
pool/spray pad systems shall be equal to or greater than the sum of the flow
rate for the specific type pool as required in 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1 plus one-third
of the spray feature flow rate.
      (19)   The spray pad treatment tank that receives the effluent water from
the spray pad shall conform to the following specifications:
         (a)   The volume of the water in the spray pad treatment tank shall be
sufficient to assure continuous operation of the filtration system. The
capacity shall be measured from six inches above the uppermost pump inlet to
the bottom of the overflow waste outlet.
         (b)   The spray pad treatment tank must be designed to provide ready
access for cleaning and inspections, and be capable of complete draining. An
overflow pipe to convey excess water to waste must be provided.
         (c)   The spray pad treatment tank shall be constructed of materials
which are inert, corrosion resistant, nontoxic, and watertight such as
concrete, fiberglass, stainless steel, etc., which can withstand all
anticipated loadings under full and empty conditions.
         (d)   An automatic water level controller shall be provided for the
spray pad treatment tank.
         (e)   The makeup water shall be introduced into the spray pad
treatment tank through an air gap or by another method which will prevent back
flow and backsiphonage.
         (f)   A screen or similar device shall be provided through which all
water from the spray pad shall pass before entering the spray pad treatment
tank or another method/process described to provide for removal of debris on
the surface layer of the spray pad treatment tank water.
         (g)   An adequate number of filtered/treated water inlets shall be
provided and located for complete mixing and circulation of treated water
within the spray pad treatment tank.
         (h)   There must be at least one main spray pad treatment tank drain
suction outlet supplying water to the spray pad treatment tank filtration
system. It shall be provided at the deepest point in the spray pad treatment
tank.
         (i)   Drain outlets shall be protected by grating. Openings in the
grates shall not be over one-half inch wide. Gratings or drain covers shall not
be removable without the use of tools.
         (j)   The recirculation piping and fittings shall be of nontoxic
material, resistant to corrosion, and able to withstand operating pressures
suitable for water supply use.
         (k)   The pipes, fittings and valves of the recirculation system shall
be sized so that velocities do not exceed six feet per second under suction,
ten feet per second under pressure and three feet per second in gravity flow.
The velocities may be exceeded when hydraulic computations indicate higher
velocities will not adversely affect the spray pad treatment system.
         (l)   All equipment and piping shall be designed and fabricated to
drain completely by use of drain plugs, drain valves or other means. All piping
shall be supported continuously or at sufficiently close intervals to prevent
sagging. All suction piping shall be sloped in one direction, preferably toward
the pump. All supply and return pipelines to the spray pad shall be provided
with insertable plugs or valves to allow the piping to be drained to a point
below the frost line. Provision shall be made for expansion and contraction of
pipes.
         (m)   A hair and lint strainer shall be provided through which all
water shall pass before entering the pump. The strainer shall be of rigid
construction, fabricated of corrosion-resistant material and sufficiently
strong to prevent collapsing when clogged. The openings shall be no greater
than one-eighth inch in any dimension. The total clear area of all openings
shall be at least four times the area of the connecting pipe. The strainer
shall have a quick-opening cover. Spare strainer baskets shall be provided. In
systems where the filter is located on the suction side of the pump, strainers
are not required.
         (n)   The recirculation pump shall have adequate capacity to meet the
design requirements of the spray pad treatment tank, including filter
backwashing. It shall be of a self-priming type if installed above the
hydraulic gradient. A gauge that indicates both pressure and vacuum shall be
installed on the pump suction header and a pressure gauge shall be installed on
the discharge side of the pump.
         (o)   A means of continuously measuring rate of flow shall be provided
in the recirculation system. For sand filters, the flow-measuring equipment
shall be located where the backwash flow rate can also be determined. The
indicator shall be capable of measuring at least one and one-half times the
design flow rate and shall be accurate within 10% of true flow. The indicator
shall have a range of readings appropriate for the anticipated flow rates, and
be installed where it is readily accessible for reading and maintenance and
with straight pipe upstream and downstream of any fitting or restriction in
accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendation.
         (p)   Automatic devices are required for regulating the rate of flow
through the filtration system and flow to the spray features.
         (q)   A spray pad treatment tank treatment system shall have one or
more filters. It shall be installed with adequate clearance and facilities for
ready and safe inspection, maintenance, disassembly and repair.
   (F)   If a spray ground is connected to a potable water supply and is
discharged directly to a sanitary sewer system, fencing requirements do not
apply.
   (G)   Newly constructed pools are not permitted to have vinyl liners.
(`88 Code, § 6-177)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17  WATER SUPPLY AND PLUMBING FIXTURES.
   (A)   A public pool and all plumbing appurtenances appertaining thereto
including drinking fountains, lavatories and showers, shall be provided with a
safe, portable water supply which meets the provisions of 327 I.A.C. 8-2. If
plumbing appurtenances are present in or near a pool enclosure, they must be in
complete working order and up to all applicable codes.
   (B)   If a handwashing sink has a self-closing, slow-closing, or metering
faucet, it shall provide a flow for at least 15 seconds without the need to
reactivate the faucet.
   (C)   All portions of the water system serving public pools and their
ancillary facilities shall be protected against backflow and back siphonage.
Water introduced into the public pool, either directly or through their
recirculation system, shall be supplied through an air gap or by other methods
acceptable to the State Building Commissioner in accordance with 675 I.A.C. 16
Plumbing Code.
(`88 Code, § 6-178)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18  SEWER SYSTEMS AND DRAINS.
   (A)   The sewer system shall be adequate to serve the facility, including
the bathhouse, locker room, and related accommodations. The building drains and
sewers shall have the capacity to carry filter backwash flows without
surcharging or flooding onto the equipment room floor. Sewer systems which
discharge filter backwash water to a drain, ditch, stream, or lake must comply
with the provisions of 327 I.A.C. 2-1 Water Pollution Control Board.
   (B)   There shall be no direct physical connection between the sewer system
and any drain from the public pool or their recirculation system. Separation by
air gap is required.
   (C)   Public pools and their ancillary facilities shall discharge to the
public sewer system if such is feasibly available in the local area. If a
public sewer system is not available within a reasonable distance, sewage may
be disposed of in accordance with either of the following:
      (1)   Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-10, commercial on-site wastewater disposal, in
the case of sewage disposal systems which the rule defines as “on site.”
      (2)   Applicable rules of the Water Pollution Control Board in the case
of sewage disposal facilities other than commercial on-site sewage disposal
systems.
(`88 Code, § 6-179)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19  LIGHTING AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lighting or other electrical circuits provided in the spray pad area
must be protected by ground-fault circuit interrupters in accordance with the
Uniform Code.
   (B)   Defects in the electrical system, including overhead lights and their
respective lenses, shall be immediately repaired.
   (C)   Portable electrical devices, such as announcing systems and radios
within the reach of patrons on the spray pad, shall be prohibited.
   (D)   When night use of the spray pad is permitted, surface lighting shall
be adequate to allow an observer to clearly see the spray pad and deck.
   (E)   No overhead electrical wiring shall pass within 20 feet horizontally
of the spray pad.
(Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20  VISITOR AND SPECTATOR AREAS; FOOD AND DRINK AREAS.
   (A)   The spaces used by visitors and spectators at public pools shall be
completely separate from those spaces used by bathers. Visitors and spectators
in street clothes may be allowed within the perimeter enclosures of the public
pool if the visitors and spectators are in a separate area which is segregated
from the space used by the bathers by a barrier or wall at least 29 inches
high.
   (B)   No food or drink shall be permitted in the immediate area of the
public pool or on the decks surrounding the public pool except that food and
beverage will be allowed in the visitor and spectator area, or in a similarly
separated snack area for bathers, if beverages are served in non-breakable
containers and refuse containers with lids are provided to keep litter off the
public pool decks.
(`88 Code, § 6-180)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21  FENCING; ENCLOSURES.
   All spray pads shall be enclosed within a fence or other barrier at least
six feet high to prevent access by patrons and animals when the spray pad is
closed. Access to the spray pad shall be prevented when the spray pad is
closed.
(Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22  RIGHT OF CLOSURE.
   (A)   A public pool that does not meet the applicable bacteriological
quality standards enumerated in §
92.26 is a health hazard. Failure to meet these requirements shall constitute
grounds for closure.
   (B)   The right is reserved to close any public swimming pool in the event
of any epidemic or threatened epidemic of disease which the Department may have
reason to believe may be transmitted through the use of the facility, or
because of continued failure to meet the facility water sampling or water
quality requirements established by this chapter. Failure to make necessary
corrections within a specified length of time after notification shall
constitute grounds for closure. The facility shall remain closed until the
problems have been corrected to the satisfaction of the Department.
   (C)   The Health Officer may temporarily close for use any public swimming
pool whenever any of the following conditions occur. Such pool shall not reopen
for use until the condition has been brought into compliance.
      (1)   The amount of residual disinfectant is less than the minimum
amounts specified in §
92.25.
      (2)   The microbiological quality of the pool is below that specified in
§
92.26.
      (3)   The pH of the pool does not comply with provisions of section §
92.25.
      (4)   The clarity of the water does not comply with the provisions of §
92.27.
      (5)   Pool attendants are not employed as required in §
92.23.
      (6)   There is a malfunction or non-function of the recirculation system.
      (7)   There is any other condition which may endanger the health, safety,
or welfare of persons using the pool, spa or spray ground.
(`88 Code, § 6-181)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23  SAFETY REQUIREMENTS; SUPERVISION.
   (A)   Each pool facility shall have at least one employee or retain the
services of a professional who shall demonstrate knowledge of pool operation
and has shown proficiency of required information through passing a test that
is part of a certified pool training program. Proof of certification shall be
made available to the Health Officer upon request. The certification must be
renewed whenever required but not more than a period of five years.
   (B)   Each certified trained operator shall be available to the facility
whenever it is open for use, and who shall assume responsibility for compliance
with this rule.
   (C)   Every public pool shall be equipped with a first aid kit and two
blankets suitable for use at recreational water facilities as recommended by
the American Red Cross. The first aid kit shall be kept filled and ready to use
whenever the pool is open for use and shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   One unit bandage scissors;
      (2)   One unit tweezers;
      (3)   Four units of adhesive bandages, one  by three inches;
      (4)   Two units of two-inch bandage compress;
      (5)   One unit three-inch bandage compress;
      (6)   One unit four-inch bandage compress;
      (7)   Two units of absorbent gauze pad, three inches by three inches;
      (8)   One unit of gauze compress, 18 inches by 36 inches;
      (9)   Two units of large compress, 24 inches by 72 inches;
      (10)   Two units of 4 inch gauze roller bandages;
      (11)   Two units of triangular bandages;
      (12)   Two units of instant ice packs;
      (13)   Two units of disposable gloves; and
      (14)   One unit of adhesive tape.
   (D)   The “No Diving” signs with letters at least four inches high must be
on the pool’s deck and can be no more than 18 inches away from the pool.
   (E)   When a public pool is not open for use, access shall be prevented by a
fixed barrier with a locked entrance and a sign stating “Pool Closed” in
clearly legible letters at least four inches high affixed to the entrance
closure.
   (F)   A telephone shall be located at or within 200 feet of the public pool
facility, and the working capability of the telephone shall be easily verified.
The telephone must remain available for emergency use. Emergency telephone
numbers must be posted within view of a person using the telephone. The
information posted shall include the name and telephone number of the nearest
available of the following:
      (1)   Physician.
      (2)   Ambulance or rescue unit.
      (3)   Hospital.
      (4)   Police station.
      (5)   Fire Department.
   (G)   A sign shall be posted in the immediate vicinity of the public pool
stating the location of the telephone. The sign shall also state that emergency
telephone numbers are posted at the telephone.
   (H)   The facilities and mechanical equipment of every public pool shall be
operated under the close supervision of a certified trained operator.
   (I)   All pool chemicals shall be stored in accordance with manufacturer
recommendations.
   (J)   A clock shall be in full view of patrons using the public or semi-
public spa.
   (K)   An emergency kill switch so as to cut power to any and all working
jets and pumps shall be located in the newly constructed spa area.
   (L)   A “Maximum Bather Load” sign with letters at least four inches high
must be on the pool’s deck and can be no more than 18 inches away from the
pool.
(`88 Code, § 6-182)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24  SUITS AND TOWELS.
   (A)   All multi-use suits and towels furnished to bathers at a public pool
shall be washed thoroughly with detergent and hot water, of at least 175
degrees Fahrenheit. If they are laundered in warm soapy water, the
concentration of chlorine must be at least 50 parts per million. Suits and
towels must be rinsed, and thoroughly dried after each use.
   (B)   Clean suits and towels must be kept strictly separated from those
which have been used and are unlaundered.
(`88 Code, § 6-183)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25  DISINFECTION; WATER QUALITY.
   (A)   Bacteriological sampling shall start at least one week prior to the
opening of the public pool.
   (B)   Public pools, when open for use, shall be continuously and
automatically disinfected with a chemical which imparts an easily measured,
free residual.
   (C)   A free residual of the disinfectant chemical shall be maintained
throughout the pool at concentrations in accordance with the following:
          Chlorine        Bromine
Pool Type Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
                        Chlorine        Bromine
Pool Type               Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
Wading pools            3.0 ppm 7.0 ppm 4.0 ppm 10 ppm
Spa pools               2.0 ppm 7.0 ppm 4.0 ppm 10 ppm
Waterslide plunge pools 2.0 ppm 7.0 ppm 3.0 ppm 10 ppm
Wave pools              2.0 ppm 7.0 ppm 3.0 ppm 10 ppm
Spray grounds           2.0 ppm 10 ppm  4.0 ppm 10 ppm
All other pools         1.0 ppm 7.0 ppm 2.0 ppm 10 ppm
 
   (D)   Whenever the residual disinfectant level falls below the minimum
designated level, the public pool shall be closed and kept free of bathers
until that minimum level has been restored.
   (E)   The Department may accept other disinfecting materials or methods when
such materials or methods have been adequately demonstrated to provide a
satisfactory residual effect which is easily measured and to be otherwise
equally effective under conditions of use or halogen concentrations as required
in division (B) or as a secondary disinfectant to be used in conjunction with a
halogen. Such materials and methods shall not be dangerous to public health,
create objectable physiological effects, or impart toxic properties to the
water. The use of gaseous (elemental) chlorine as a disinfectant in public
pools is prohibited.
   (F)   Water shall be manually tested shall be collected from the deepest
part of the pool maintaining distance from inlets and outlets.
   (G)   A test kit to measure the concentration of free available
disinfectant, accurate within 0.5 mg/L and covering a minimum range of 0.5 mg/
L to 10 mg/L, shall be used at each public pool. Reagents shall have a mark of
receipt on them and used within the timeframe of the manufacturer
specifications.
   (H)   Public pool water shall be maintained in an alkaline condition as
indicated by a pH of not less than 7.2 and not over 7.8. A pH test kit accurate
to the nearest 0.2 pH unit and covering a minimum range of 7.0 to 8.0 pH units
shall be provided at each public pool. The alkalinity of the water in public
pools shall be maintained at a level of at least 80 mg/L as titrated to the
methyl orange end point.
   (I)   The recirculation system for a public spray ground shall be maintained
in condition to recirculate the volume of water every six hours. All other
pools will comply with the required amount of turnover hours stated in Rule 410
I.A.C. 6-2.1-32. A device shall be provided to measure the flow of the water
through the recirculation system. Such device shall be located where it is
accessible and easily read. The water from the spray pad treatment system
cannot be combined/circulated with water from other aquatic facilities such as
swimming pools, water slides, or wave pools. The spray pad treatment tank
filtration, circulation and spray pad chemical disinfection equipment must
operate 24 hours a day.
   (J)   The temperature of a public spa water shall not exceed 104 degrees
Fahrenheit or 40 degrees Celsius. A thermometer capable of accurately measuring
temperature in the range of 80 degrees Fahrenheit or 27 degrees Celsius to 120
degrees Fahrenheit or 49 degrees Celsius shall be provided at each public spa
facility. The thermostat for controlling the water temperature of a public spa
shall be located in such a way that it cannot be adjusted by the customers.
(`88 Code, § 6-184)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
92.26  BACTERIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION.
   (A)   The owner of each public pool shall arrange for the collection and
bacteriological examination of the water in that spa or hot tub in accordance
with the following schedule:
      (1)   Operators of public pools shall submit at least one water sample
per week for bacteriological examination whenever the facility is open for use.
      (2)   Results of such examination shall be reported to the Department as
soon as results are available.
      (3)   Failure to meet this requirement shall constitute grounds for
closure by the Department.
   (B)   No two consecutive samples or three  samples collected from any public
pool, collected in a six-week period shall demonstrate the following:
      (1)   Contain more than 200 bacteria per milliliter, as determined by the
standard 35 degree Centigrade agar plate count.
      (2)   Show positive test (confirmed test) for coliform organisms in any
of the five 10 ml portions of a sample, or more than one coliform organism per
50 ml when the membrane filter test is used.
      (3)   Show the presence of any coliform when the 100 ml presence/absence
test is used.
      (4)   Show the presence of more than two  colony forming units when the
100 ml enzyme substrate coliform test is used.
         (a)   Failure to collect and analyze weekly water samples during the
period that a pool is open for use is considered an unsatisfactory report for
the applicable week.
         (b)   All public pool samples shall be collected, dechlorinated, and
examined for total bacteria using the heterotrophic 35 degree Centigrade plate
count method and for total coliform using the multiple tube fermentation test,
the membrane fitter test, the MMO-MUG test, the 100 ml presence/absence test,
or the 100 ml quantifiable enzyme substrate test. Such tests shall be performed
by a state approved bacteriological laboratory in accordance with the
procedures outlined in Part 9000, Microbiological Examination of Water, of the
18th edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater
(APHA)” or the most recently approved and accepted addition. Where samples are
examined in laboratories other than those of the department, copies of the
report of the examination shall be sent by the laboratory or by the public pool
operator to the LaPorte County Health Department.
(`88 Code, §6-185)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27  PHYSICAL WATER QUALITY.
   (A)   The water at a public spa or shall have sufficient clarity at all
times that a black disk, at least six inches in diameter on a white field
placed at a depth of at least four feet of water, shall be readily visible from
the surface of the water. Failure to meet these requirements shall constitute
grounds for immediate closure of the public spa or public hot tub by the
Department of the local Board of Health. A public spa or which does not meet
the applicable clarity standards enumerated in this division (A) is a health
and safety hazard.
   (B)   Chemicals used in controlling the quality of water in public spas or
public spray ground shall be demonstrated as imparting no toxic properties to
the water. The addition of chemicals for algae control shall be approved by the
Department, and, where appropriate, the Indiana State Chemist.
(`88 Code, § 6-186)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28  CLEANING OF PUBLIC SPAS.
   (A)   Visible dirt on the bottom of the public spa shall be removed every 24
hours or more frequently as required.
   (B)   Scum or floating matter on the public spa water surface shall be
removed continuously by skimming, flushing, or other effective means when the
public spa is open for use.
   (C)   A public spa shall be drained and scrubbed with a disinfecting agent
at least once every two  weeks when open for use, and more frequently if there
are indications of poor water quality or clarity.
   (D)   The deck and cover of a public spa shall be cleaned and scrubbed with
a disinfecting agent at least once every week. Such disinfecting agent shall be
compatible with other pool chemicals used and have a concentration, when
applied, equivalent to 100 mg/L available chlorine.
(`88 Code, § 6-187)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.29  OPERATION AND SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The maximum allowable bather load of a public spa shall not exceed one
person for each three feet of the inner edge of the spa or hot tub seat or
bench.
   (B)   Every spray ground shall be maintained and operated in a clean, safe
and sanitary manner at all times. Spray ground recirculation and chemical
disinfection equipment shall be operated continuously. Ultraviolet light
disinfection units shall be operated in accordance with approved plans and
specifications.
   (C)   Spray ground equipment and appurtenances shall be operated and
maintained in accordance with approved plans and specifications.
   (D)   Cracks in the spray pad and/or decking shall be repaired when they may
be a potential for leakage, present a tripping hazard, a potential cause of
lacerations, or impact the ability to properly clean and maintain the spray pad
area.
   (E)   Drain grates shall be secured in place at all times. Broken or missing
drain grates shall be repaired or replaced before the spray pad is used.
   (F)   Inlets shall be adjusted to produce uniform circulation of water and
to facilitate the maintenance of a uniform disinfectant residual throughout the
spray pad treatment tank.
   (G)   The water level in the spray pad treatment tank shall be maintained
continuously by an automatic level control system.
   (H)   The deck shall be kept clean and free of puddled water. Glass
containers are prohibited from the spray pad and all deck areas.
   (I)   At the beginning of each day prior to use and at other times when
needed, the spray pad must be adequately cleaned and flushed to remove any
materials or contaminants on the surface of the spray pad. The water must be
flushed to waste and not discharged into the spray pad treatment tank. Flushing
may be accomplished by use of a hose supplied with potable water or by
operation of the spray features providing it adequately flushes the entire pad
surface and is discharged to waste.
   (J)   The spray pad treatment tank shall be completely drained and cleaned
at a frequency necessary to maintain water quality.
   (K)   All spray grounds shall be equipped with a recirculation system which
includes filtration and disinfection facilities to provide water quality
consistent with the bacteriological, chemical and physical standards required
in §
92.22. The filtration and chemical treatment systems for the spray pad
treatment tank must operate 24 hours a day.
(`88 Code, § 6-188)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.30  RECORDS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Daily operating records shall be maintained and recorded each day the
public pool is open for use and shall include the following:
      (1)   Total bather loads;
      (2)   Water temperature (spa);
      (3)   Volume of fresh water added;
      (4)   Operating periods of recirculating pumps and filters and
corresponding rate-of-flow meter readings;
      (5)   Amounts and types of chemicals used;
      (6)   Disinfectant residuals;
      (7)   pH readings;
      (8)   Maintenance (and any malfunction) of equipment;
      (9)   Results of bacteriological examinations;
      (10)   Reports of accidents, injuries, illness, and complaints related to
the public pool operation; and
      (11)   Closures that are not part of normal closing hours, such as for a
chemical treatment process, an accident or injury or any other specific reason.
   (B)   An injury/incident/illness report using a form prescribed by the
Department shall be made for each occurrence that:
      (1)   Results in death;
      (2)   Requires resuscitation;
      (3)   Results in transportation to a hospital or other facility for
medical treatment; or
      (4)   Results in an illness connected to the water quality at the pool.
   (C)   The injury/incident/illness report shall be forwarded to the
Department within ten days and kept onsite for no more than a period of one
year.
   (D)   Daily operating records shall be accessible to inspection by health
authorities at all times. Weekly summaries of these records shall be submitted
to the local board on request, using forms acceptable to that authority.
(`88 Code, § 6-189)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.31  PERSONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a public spray ground shall develop, post,
and enforce rules governing personal conduct at his or her spray ground. Such
rules shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The hours that a spray pad is open; and
      (2)   That spray pad use is prohibited at any other time.
      (3)   Anyone who has or has had diarrhea within the past two weeks shall
not use the spray pad.
      (4)   Spray features use recirculated water; do not drink.
      (5)   All diaper aged children shall use plastic pants with tight fitting
elastic at the legs and waist, or swim diapers.
      (6)   No animals on or near spray pad.
      (7)   Pollution of the spray pad area is prohibited. Urinating, discharge
of fecal matter, expectorating or blowing the nose in any spray pad is
prohibited.
      (8)   Street clothes are not allowed in the spray ground.
   (B)   Placards embodying the personal conduct regulations and instructions
in division (A), and those relating to suits and towels, shall be conspicuously
posted in the public pool room or enclosure and in the dressing rooms and
offices at all public pools which are subject to this rule.
(`88 Code, § 6-190)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.32  TEMPORARY SPAS.
   (A)   Portable public spas and public hot tub facilities are subject to the
requirements of this rule. The lessee or custodian shall be responsible for
operation of the portable public spa or public hot tub in accordance with this
rule during the period of the lease, rental agreement or other contractual
agreement.
   (B)   The owner of the portable public spa or public hot tub shall be
responsible for thoroughly cleaning and disinfecting the unit after termination
of the lease, rental or other agreement and before it is used at another
location.
(`88 Code, § 6-191)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.33  HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   No swimming pools, artificial body of water, building, area, premises or
parts thereof, shall be constructed, made, used, maintained or operated in any
manner which may cause or be conducive to any health or safety hazard.
(`88 Code, § 6-192)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 92.45  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a public pool in
LaPorte County, Indiana, who does not possess a valid permit from the Health
Officer. Such permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises of
pool. Only persons who comply with the applicable provisions of this chapter
shall be entitled to receive and retain such a license.
   (B)   Such permit for a yearly operating pool shall be for a term of one
year, to be renewed annually on or prior to an anniversary date established by
the Health Officer.
   (C)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name and
address of the person to whom a license is issued and such other data as the
Health Officer may deem necessary.
(`88 Code, § 6-193)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.46  POWER OF INSPECTION; ENFORCEMENT; SERVICE OF NOTICES; ORDER HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Health Officer or his or her duly authorized agent, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted and properly equipped with
codes and/or keys to enter upon all properties at proper times for the purpose
of inspection, and/or monitoring necessary to carry out the provisions of this
chapter, including but not limited to chemical rooms, pump rooms, dressing and
locker rooms, toilets, showers, and other areas and enclosures that are
intended for the use of persons using the pool.
   (B)   Whenever the Health Officer determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
chapter, he or she shall give notice to such alleged violation the person or
persons responsible therefor, and to any known agent of such person, as
hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in written form;
      (2)   Include a statement of reasons why it is being issued;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any, act it
requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent, or the occupant, as
the case may require, provided that such notice shall be deemed to be properly
served upon such owner or agent, or upon him or her personally, or if a copy
thereof is sent by certified mail to his or her last known address or if a copy
thereof is posted in a conspicuous place in or about the facility affected by
notice, or if he or she is served with such notice by any other method
authorized or required under the laws of this state. Such notice must contain
an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(`88 Code § 6-194)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08) 
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.47  REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   Any person affected by any such notice of closure issued by the Health
Officer may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
officer or designated hearing officer, provided that such person shall file in
the office of the latter within ten days after service of the notice, a written
petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a statement of the grounds
thereof. Upon receipt of such petition, the Health Officer shall arrange a time
and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice
thereof. Such hearing shall be heard as soon as practical after the receipt of
request thereof. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity
to be heard and to show because why compliance with this chapter should not be
met.
(`88 Code §§ 6-194, 6-195)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-
5-08)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.48  POST-HEARING PROCEDURES.
   After such hearing, the Health Officer shall sustain, modify, or withdraw
the notice, depending upon his or her findings as to whether compliance with
the provisions of this chapter has been met. If the Health Officer shall
sustain or modify such notice, it shall be deemed to be an order. Any notice
served pursuant to §92.47 shall automatically become an order if a written
petition for a hearing is not filed in the office of the Health Officer within
ten days after such notice is served. Whenever the Health Officer finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health
he or she may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence
of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he or she deems
necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this
chapter, such order shall be effective immediately, but upon petition to the
Health Officer shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible, in the manner
provided in this section. After such hearing, depending upon the finding as to
whether the provisions of this chapter have been complied with, the Health
Officer shall continue such order in effect, or modify it or revoke it.
(`88 Code, § 6-194)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08)
§ 92.49  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Health Officer may initiate any procedures as he or she deems necessary
for proper enforcement and to carry out the purpose and intent of this chapter.
(`88 Code, §6-196)  (Ord. 94-16, passed 8-15-94; Am. Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this chapter shall be served by the Health Officer with a written order stating
the nature of the violation and providing a time limit for satisfactory
correction thereof. Any person, firm or corporation found in violation of that
order shall be subject to the penalties set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this chapter shall be subjected to a fine of $500 for the first offense; a fine
of not more than $1,000 for the second repeat offense; a fine of not more than
$1,500 for the third and each subsequent repeat offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the county for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by
reason of such violation.
(Ord. 15, passed 8-5-08)
CHAPTER 93:  PARKS; REGULATIONS ON CONDUCT
Section
Public Use; General Provisions
   
93.01   Purpose of Department and regulations
   
93.02   Hours of public use
   
93.03   Permits, reservations, and fees
   
93.04   Park entry
Protection of Property, Structures, and Natural Resources
   
93.15   Misuse or destruction of park property prohibited
   
93.16   Misuse or destruction of natural resources prohibited
   
93.17   Burning regulations
Sports and Games; Restrictions
   
93.30   Swimming
   
93.31   Winter sports
   
93.32   Power models and toys; noise-making devices
   
93.33   Aviation
   
93.34   Watercraft
   
93.35   Bicycling
   
93.36   Gambling
   
93.37   Amusement contraptions
Motorized Vehicles, Traffic, and Parking; Regulations
   
93.50   Vehicle operation and equipment
   
93.51   Vehicle types; permission to operate
   
93.52   Vehicle operation
   
93.53   Parking
   
93.54   Speed limits
Personal Conduct Regulations
   
93.65   Compliance with laws and orders required; preservation of order
   
93.66   Weapons and harmful substances prohibited
   
93.67   Drug and alcohol use prohibited
   
93.68   Control of animals required
   
93.69   Personal conduct
   
93.70   Interference with employees prohibited; bribing
Enforcement
   
93.80   Enforcement authorization and procedure
Cross-reference:
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see
Chapter 33
PUBLIC USE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  PURPOSE OF DEPARTMENT AND REGULATIONS.
   Park sites, and any and all other property under the jurisdiction,
management, and control of the county Parks and Recreation Department, are for
use by the general public.  One of the functions of the Department is to
conserve, protect, and interpret a well-balanced system of parks, open spaces,
and natural areas of the county.  These rules and regula- tions are intended to
help carry out this function.  The rules and regulations below are intended to
control the conduct of the public and the uses of the facilities of any and all
park sites and/or other property under the jurisdiction and management of the
county Parks and Recreation Department.  Hereinafter, any references within the
chapter to parks or park sites shall include, but not be limited to, park sites
and/or any and all property under the jurisdiction, management, and control of
the county Parks and Recreation Department.
(`88 Code, § 4-24)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90)
§ 93.02  HOURS OF PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   Park sites shall be open to the public from 8 a.m. to dusk, or as
posted.
   (B)   No person shall sleep overnight in any park without special permits
from the Superintendent.
(`88 Code, § 4-25)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.03  PERMITS, RESERVATIONS, AND FEES.
   (A)   No person shall offer for exchange or sale any article of merchandise,
do any hauling, peddling, or solicitation, buy or offer to buy any articles of
merchandise, or take up any collection or solicit or receive contributions of
money or articles of value, except when authorized by permit or under contract
with the Parks Board.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall display, distribute, post, or fix any placard,
sign, handbill, pamphlet, circular, or any other writing, printed material, or
object containing advertising material or announce- ments of any kind, without
written permission of the Superintendent.
      (2)   However, those groups holding a valid picnic, camping, or special
event permit may display signs to identify their location or direct others to
it, providing these signs are temporary and are removed by the permittee at the
termination of the activity, and providing the signs are not attached to any
tree or shrub or to any post, building, sign, gate, or other structure.
   (C)   A permit or reservation shall first be obtained from the
Superintendent prior to the entrance into the park or the use of any park
property or facility whenever required by this policy or by any rule or
regulation promulgated by the Board.  In addition, the fee, if any, should be
paid at the time that the permit or reservation is applied for.  All permits
and reservations shall be applied for in advance at the Parks and Recreation
Office.  The Superintendent may, at his or her discretion, refuse same.
   (D)   A reservation shall first be obtained from the Superintendent for a
picnic involving 25 or more persons and for all events when a facility is asked
to be set aside for exclusive use at a specified time by a group for picnicking
purposes.  Any group that desires, in conjunction with a picnic, controlled
activities such as, but not limited to, a hog roast, sound amplification,
special vehicle access, and the like, must indicate these activities at the
time of application.  A reservation fee will be assessed and must be paid prior
to the reserved time.
   (E)   No person shall camp within any park except in camping areas which,
from time to time, may be designated by the Board, or upon written approval of
the Superintendent.
   (F)   Fees and charges for the use of various facilities operated by the
Department on property of the Department shall be established by the Board, and
may be changed from time to time.
   (G)   No person, except those with valid reason or those having special
permission of the Superintendent, shall use any pay facility of the Parks
Department without first paying the fee for same as may be established by the
Board from time to time.
(`88 Code, § 4-26)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.04  PARK ENTRY.
   No person shall enter the park except through designated entrances.
(`88 Code, § 4-54)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90)
PROTECTION OF PROPERTY, STRUCTURES, AND NATURAL RESOURCES
§ 93.15  MISUSE OR DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Unless authorized by the Superintendent, no person shall injure,
deface, disturb, defoul, or remove any part of the park or any building, sign,
equipment, or other property found therein.
   (B)   No person shall throw, cast, drag, push, or deposit any refuse
container, picnic table, barricade, or any other moveable or nonmoveable
property into any lake, pond, slough, stream, or lagoon, or upon the frozen
waters thereof, or otherwise render it unavailable to the general public for
its intended use, cause a hazard to public safety, or damage the property.
(`88 Code, § 4-28)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.16  MISUSE OR DESTRUCTION OF NATURAL RESOURCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously cut down, destroy, or injure a standing or
growing vine, brush, shrub, sapling, tree, or flower, or other vegetation,
fruit, or seed growing on park property, or maliciously injure, destroy,
disturb, or sever from the park a project standing or growing or other thing,
such as rock minerals, attached thereto or a part thereof.
   (B)   Unless authorized by the Superintendent, no person shall bring any
tree, shrub, or plant, or any newly plucked branch thereof, into or upon any
park.
   (C)   Unless authorized by the Superintendent, no person shall bring into
and leave in any park any animal, fish, or fowl.
   (D)   (1)   No person, without authorization of the Superintendent, shall
bring into, leave behind, or dump any material of any kind, whether waste or
otherwise, in the park, except refuse, ashes, garbage, and other material
arising from the normal use and enjoyment of a picnic, camp, or other permitted
activity provided the material is deposited in receptacles or pits provided for
those purposes. 
      (2)   Nor shall any material of any kind be left or deposited within or
near the parks so as to pollute the land, water, or air coursing through or
over the parks or otherwise interfere with proper use and enjoyment of the
park. 
      (3)   No bottles, cans, refuse, or foreign material of any description
shall be deposited or thrown in any of the streams, waterways, ponds, or lakes
located in the park.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall, either within or outside the park, place or
permit to be placed in any river, brook, stream, pond, ditch, or drain that is
maintained or flows into or through the park any noxious or deleterious
material which may render park waters harmful to the public health or to
animals, vegetation, or aquatic life, or which may prevent, limit, or interfere
with the use of the waters for domestic, industrial, or agricultural purposes,
or which may lessen to an unreasonable degree the use and enjoyment of the
waters for park, recreational, or other park uses. 
      (2)   All sanitary sewage shall receive adequate primary, secondary, and
tertiary plant process treatment prior to resultant clear effluent entering
into, through, or upon the park.
   (F)   (1)   No person, occupant, owner, or person in charge, by himself or
herself, or his or her agent or employee, may cause, suffer, or allow the
burning of garbage, refuse, waste material, trash, or motor vehicle or other
combustibles within or adjacent to the park so as to cause smoke, haze, odor,
sparks, dust, dirt, or other type matter or gaseous substances to come upon,
pass through, or pass over the park which would cause an air pollution nuisance
or damage to persons or property.
      (2)   Open fires for recreational purposes, such as campfires, barbecues,
and cookouts in designated areas, shall be permitted provided the materials
used were not taken from the park and provided same are maintained so that the
burning may be accomplished without the emission of dense smoke, sparks, dust,
or ash, which may cause an air pollution nuisance or damage to persons or
property.
   (G)   (1)   No person within the confines of the park shall hunt, pursue
with dogs, trap, or in any other way molest any wild bird or animal found
within the confines of the park, or rob or molest any animal den or bird nest. 
Exception to this rule will only be allowed in the case of park property which
has been posted as a hunting area, or when specifically written limited permits
are issued by the Superintendent for the purpose of management, overabundance,
disease, or inbreeding of wildlife species for balance control.
      (2)   The Superintendent may close park waters to fishing when advisable
and it shall be so posted.  Fishing in allowed areas shall be permitted subject
to the statutes of the state.
   (H)   It is unlawful to introduce any non-game species of fish without
permission from the Superintendent or Naturalist.  No minnows, suckers,
shiners, chubs, or any other live bait fish will be allowed for bait.
   (I)   All persons fishing between the ages of 17 and 65 must have a valid
state fishing license.  Any person in violation of the fishing statutes is
subject to prosecution.
(`88 Code, § 4-29)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.17  BURNING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall start a fire in the park, except that small fires for
culinary purposes in park grills, or privately owned grills, or fires in a
place designated shall be permitted provided materials used were not taken from
the park and approval has been given by the Superintendent.  The Superintendent
may, at his or her discretion, prohibit fires for limited periods at any
location or for any purpose necessary for the protection of park property. 
   (B)   Any fire shall be continuously attended under the care and discretion
of a competent person.  All fires shall be extinguished by the person starting
or using the same before leaving the immediate vicinity of the fire. 
   (C)   No fires shall be built within ten feet of any tree or building, or
beneath the branches of any trees or in any underbrush.  No portable stoves or
grills shall be permitted in shelters or on combustible picnic tables.  No
person shall throw away or discard any lighted match, cigar, or cigarette
within the park property.
(`88 Code, § 4-30)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
SPORTS AND GAMES; RESTRICTIONS
§ 93.30  SWIMMING.
   No person shall swim, wade, or bathe at any time in any of the lakes, ponds,
streams, sloughs, or watercourses except in places that may be designated by
the Board and then only in accordance with the rules or regulations set forth
by the Board as posted.
(`88 Code, § 4-32)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.31  WINTER SPORTS.
   (A)   No person shall sled, toboggan, ski, slide, or ice skate within any
park except those designated for those purposes.
   (B)   No person shall fish through the ice on any frozen waters except in
areas designated for that purpose.
(`88 Code, § 4-33)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.32  POWER MODELS AND TOYS; NOISE-MAKING DEVICES.
   Engine-powered model and toy airplanes, boats, cars, sirens, or other noise-
making devices shall not be operated within the confines of the park, unless by
express written consent of the Superintendent.
(`88 Code, § 4-34)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.33  AVIATION.
   (A)   No person shall voluntarily bring, land, or cause to descend or alight
upon park lands or waters any airplane, flying machine, balloon, parachute, or
other apparatus for aviation, except by written permit from the
Superintendent. 
   (B)   Any landing other than one caused by mechanical or structural failure
of the aircraft shall be deemed to have been made voluntarily.
(`88 Code, § 4-35)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.34  WATERCRAFT.
   (A)   No motor boat shall be moored to or beached upon any park land unless
designated by the Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall ride, sail, or float in any watercraft on park
property except in areas designated by the Superintendent or by special permit
from the Superintendent. 
      (2)   The Parks Superintendent shall also determine what types of
watercraft are allowable in any specific area.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall ride, sail, or float in any watercraft which is
not equipped with an adequate number of life jackets or other Coast Guard
approved flotation gear. 
      (2)   No person shall ride, sail, or float in any watercraft not
conforming to state regulations controlling them and designed for watercraft,
nor shall anyone operate a watercraft in a manner unsafe to its occupants or
other persons.
(`88 Code, § 4-36)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.35  BICYCLING.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on any path, trail, roadway, or other area
designated or posted prohibiting bicycles.
(`88 Code, § 4-37)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.36  GAMBLING.
   No person shall engage in any games of chance or in the use of any gambling
device, nor shall any person tell fortunes for pecuniary reward.
(`88 Code, § 4-38)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.37  AMUSEMENT CONTRAPTIONS.
   No person shall bring in, set up, construct, manage, or operate any
amusement or entertainment contraption, device, or gadget, without written
permission of the Superintendent.
(`88 Code, § 4-39)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
MOTORIZED VEHICLES, TRAFFIC, AND PARKING; REGULATIONS
§ 93.50  VEHICLE OPERATION AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person who is the owner or operator of a vehicle shall operate, or
cause or permit the vehicle to be operated within the park unless the vehicle
or conveyance displays the distinctive number and registration marks or license
plates, legally fastened to the vehicle, when registration marks are required
under the state Vehicle Code, I.C. 9-21-1 et seq.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle, including motorcycles, motorbikes, and
snowmobiles, shall exhibit head lamps, tail lamps, and other illuminating lamps
meeting all of the requirements with respect to color, display periods or
times, and illuminating distance as are set forth under the state Vehicle Code.
   (C)   No person shall use or shine spotlights, or unnecessarily or
continuously shine vehicle headlights of any kind onto the park, except under
the direction of park personnel or law enforcement officers or except where
necessary for the preservation of life or property.
   (D)   Except by authority of special permit granted by the Superintendent,
no persons shall drive or operate a vehicle in excess of three quarters of a
ton, designed, used, or maintained primarily for transportation of property, or
a bus except a school bus or recreational vehicle, or a truck tractor,
including mechanized farming machinery, over any road or drive within the
park.  Exception to this prohibition shall be made for vehicles servicing
authorized park functions.
(`88 Code, § 4-42)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.51  VEHICLE TYPES; PERMISSION TO OPERATE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle
anywhere that is not licensed or permitted to be operated on the roads,
streets, and highways of the state without written permission of the
Superintendent, and then only in those areas so designated for those purposes. 
Vehicles not so licensed, and therefore subject to the provisions of this
chapter, include but are not limited to snowmobiles, go-carts, trail bikes, and
other all- terrain off-road vehicles.  Before any of these vehicles can be
operated within a park operated by the county Parks Department, a waiver of
liability form must be filled out by the owner and operator of the vehicle.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or operator of a vehicle shall operate, or
cause or permit the vehicle to be operated within the park unless the vehicle
or conveyance displays the distinctive number and registration marks required
under the state Vehicle Code, I.C. 9-21-1 et seq.
(`88 Code, § 4-43)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.52  VEHICLE OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall ride or operate any vehicle on, over, along, or upon
any park, except roadways, driveways, and parking areas designated for the use
of those vehicles, or except in specially limited areas designated by the
Superintendent from time to time.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive or propel, or cause to be driven or
propelled, along or over any highway, road, parkway, drive, or parking area
within the park, any vehicle without due regard for the safety and rights of
pedestrians and drivers and occupants of all other vehicles. 
      (2)   No person shall endanger the life, limb, or property of any person
while in the lawful use of any road, parkway, wooded or open land trail, drive,
or parking area.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle of any kind upon or along any
park area, road, or drive which has been closed and posted with appropriate
signs or barricades. 
      (2)   The Superintendent shall have authority to order areas, roads, or
drives closed during the process of construction, reconstruction, or repair, or
when on the basis of engineering investigation, weather, or other conditions
travel is rendered either unsafe or unduly destructive of the area, road, or
drive.
(`88 Code, § 4-43)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.53  PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle overnight without written permission of
the Superintendent.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in such a way as to block in another
parked vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall park a vehicle in such a way as to block, restrict, or
impede the normal flow of traffic.
   (D)   No person shall park a vehicle in a zone or area posted prohibiting
parking.
   (E)   No person shall park a vehicle on turf, meadow, prairie, marsh, field
in a woodland, or on the exposed roots of any tree or shrub, except in an
emergency or a matter of public safety.
   (F)   No person shall park a vehicle for the purpose of washing it or for
the making of repairs or alterations to any vehicle except those of an
emergency nature.
   (G)   No group shall congregate within a parking area.
(`88 Code, § 4-44)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.54  SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall drive, propel, or cause to be driven along or over any road
within the park, any vehicle or conveyance at a rate of speed greater than
speed limit signs posted, nor, in the absence of signs, at a speed in excess of
20 miles per hour, at a speed which is more than reasonable and proper in
regard to traffic conditions and the use of the road, or at a speed which
endangers the safety of any person or property.
(`88 Code, § 4-45)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
PERSONAL CONDUCT REGULATIONS
§ 93.65  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND ORDERS REQUIRED; PRESERVATION OF ORDER.
   (A)   No person shall fail or refuse to comply with any reasonable order
relating to the regulation, direction, or control of traffic, or with any other
order lawfully given by any park personnel or law enforcement officer acting
under the authority of the Board, or willfully resist, obstruct, assault, or
abuse any park personnel or law enforcement officer or any other official in
the execution of his or her office; or in any manner give aid to any person to
escape from custody or to attempt to escape from pending arrest or custody.
   (B)   No group shall collect or assemble within the park to do an unlawful
act or for the purpose of inflicting injury to persons or property within the
park.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall remain within the park who does not abide by
conditions adopted and posted by the Board for the preservation of good order
and the protection of property within the park. 
      (2)   No person shall remain within the park who does not abide by the
instructions and directions of duly authorized personnel, in the lawful
performance of their duties.
      (3)   Any person directed by an employee or agent of the Board to leave
the park shall do so promptly and peaceably.
   (D)   No person without lawful authority shall engage in conduct which
places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery, nor shall any
person intentionally or knowingly without legal justification and by any means
cause harm to an individual.
(`88 Code, § 4-47)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.66  WEAPONS AND HARMFUL SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person, except law enforcement officers in the line of duty, shall have
or carry any gun, pistol, switchblade, knife, dagger, metal knuckles, chain,
slingshot, blowgun, any lethal instrument, any harmful solid, liquid, aqueous,
effervescent, or gaseous substance, or other dangerous weapon concealed on or
about his or her person while within a park.
(`88 Code, § 4-48)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.67  DRUG AND ALCOHOL USE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drink, sell, possess, make a gift of, or offer for sale any
alcoholic liquor or dangerous drugs within the park.  No person under the
influence of any of these substances shall enter or remain within the park, nor
shall any person within the park use, administer, receive, offer for sale,
possess, or make available to himself or herself, or to any person or animal,
any alcoholic beverage or drugs.
(`88 Code, § 4-49)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.68  CONTROL OF ANIMALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Dogs shall be on a leash not more than eight feet in length.  Cats and
other pets shall be under the owner’s control at all times.  No person shall
permit his or her dog, cat, or other pet to interfere in any manner with the
enjoyment or use of any area by others.  Owners shall clean up all pet waste
and dispose of it in trash receptacles.
   (B)   No person shall herd, graze, drive, or permit to run at large within
the park, any cattle, horse, mule, goat, swine, or other animal, or any poultry
or other fowl, without a permit from the Superintendent.
(`88 Code, § 4-50)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.69  PERSONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall, either by work or act, indulge in any noise,
boisterous, disorderly, or indecent conduct, or in any manner disturb the peace
or good order of the community within the park by loud playing of record
players, televisions, radios, tape recorders, noise makers, sound equipment, or
musical instruments, or fighting, quarreling with loud voices or shouts, or
threatening violence to the person or property of others. 
      (2)   No person shall disturb or intrude upon a picnic or gathering in
any park without consent of those composing the group, except park employees in
the proper pursuit of their duties.
   (B)   No person shall commit, perform, and engage in deviant sexual conduct
or any act of public indecency.  No person shall solicit or attempt to solicit
another to engage in deviant conduct or solicit or ask anyone to commit,
perform, or engage in an act of public indecency.
   (C)   No person shall use obscene, profane, or abusive language within a
park.
   (D)   No person shall loiter in or near any building, toilet, or other park
structure, or loiter in or near a vehicle within a park.
   (E)   No person, except maintenance park employees on duty, shall enter a
toilet room set aside for the opposite sex.
   (F)   No person shall contribute to the delinquency of a minor while within
the confines of a park.
   (G)   Every person shall conduct himself or herself with due regard to the
equal rights of others to the use and enjoyment of the park.
   (H)   No person shall falsely represent or impersonate any police officer or
Parks Department employee.
(`88 Code, § 4-51)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.70  INTERFERENCE WITH EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED; BRIBING.
   (A)   No person shall resist or obstruct or be abusive of, or address in a
profane or abusive manner, any Park Ranger, law enforcement officer, agent of
the Board, or any employee engaged in work for the Department.
   (B)   No person shall give or offer to give any employee any money, gift,
privilege, or article of value on or off park property from any individual,
company, or corporation that might benefit from or expect to benefit from the
employee’s indebtedness.
(`88 Code, § 4-52)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 93.80  ENFORCEMENT AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Enforcement of the provisions of this chapter is specifically
authorized by any peace officer of the state, and shall be enforceable by
designated employees of the county Parks and Recreation Department.  These
employees of the county Parks and Recreation Department shall be designated
with enforcement authority by the Superintendent of the county Parks and
Recreation Department. 
   (B)   In the event that any of the above-mentioned peace officers or
employees of the county Parks and Recreation Department observe a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter or receive reliable information which
leads to the determination that a violation of the chapter occurs, that officer
may cite the individual who has violated a provision of this chapter. The
officer may cite any person whose conduct is specifically prohibited by this
chapter. 
   (C)   Any peace officer or employee of the county Parks and Recreation
Department observing a violation or receiving information which leads to the
determination that a violation has occurred shall serve the aforementioned
violating individual with a citation which specifies which portion of the
chapter has been violated and advising the individual that the violation may be
prosecuted pursuant to the terms of this chapter. 
   (D)   Prosecution of any violations of this chapter shall be the
responsibility of the County Attorney.  Upon referral of the citation for
violation of the chapter, the Office of the County Attorney will file with the
appropriate court for adjudication of the violation.
(`88 Code, § 4-58)  (Ord. 90-15, passed 12-3-90)
CHAPTER 94:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Enforcement
   
94.04   Animal control fines
   
94.05   Animal Control Advisory Board
Prohibited Activity
   
94.15   Permitting domestic animals to run at large
   
94.16   Animal bites; reporting and quarantine procedures
   
94.17   Rabid animals
   
94.18   Dangerous animals
   
94.19   Teasing and tormenting animals
   
94.20   General animal care requirements
   
94.21   Vaccination of animals
   
94.22   Poisoning of animals
   
94.23   Enticing animals
   
94.24   Trespassing to entice away
   
94.25   Fresh pursuit
Impounding Procedures
   
94.35   Impounding of animals
   
94.36   Care of impounded animals; notice to owners
   
94.37   Redemption and adoption of impounded animals; euthanasia of diseased
animals
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01  ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   All laws of the State of Indiana pertaining to: the regulation or
control of animals, concerning their ownership, licensing, harboring,
abandonment, running at large, rabies control and quarantine, pursuit, capture,
confinement, impoundment, the prevention and control of disease of domestic
animals and/or livestock animals as defined, and; the administrative rules and
regulations of the Indiana State Board of Health, and unlawful acts relating
thereto not inconsistent herewith are made a part hereof by reference.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are not to replace such laws and
regulations, but are to be considered supplementary and in addition thereto,
and shall be fully enforceable where not inconsistent with the laws of the
State of Indiana.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms and phrases shall have the meaning set forth in this
chapter.
   ABANDON. To deposit, leave, drop off or otherwise dispose of any live
domestic animal for a period in excess of 24 hours, without providing someone
to feed, water and check on the animal's condition. No owner shall leave an
animal by a roadside or other area, or leave such animal on either public or
private property, without property owner's  consent. In the event that an
animal is impounded after having been deemed abandoned, the owner or person who
was charged with the animal's care, shall be subject to a citation.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A structure designed specifically to shelter an animal
that allows an animal to maintain its body heat, with a roof, structured floor
and three sides free of leaks or openings to the wind and rain. The structure
is physically located in a dry area allowing the animal to stay dry and access
outside the structure to dry ground that is mud free. Livestock require a
structure with three sides and a roof designed to protect it from the elements.
   AGENT. Any person(s) 18 years or older authorized by an owner to act in the
owners behalf.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been surgically altered to prevent it
from reproducing.
   ANIMAL. Any live non-human vertebrate creature, domestic, wild or exotic.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AGENCY. Any governmental or private entity charged with or
contracted with and given authority for the enforcement on the provisions of
this chapter for and on behalf of the County of LaPorte (hereinafter referred
to as "county").
   ANIMAL HOARDER. Any person who:
      (1)   Having one or more animals and failing to provide adequate
standards of nutrition, sanitation, shelter, and veterinary care, with this
neglect often resulting in illness and death from starvation, spread of
infectious disease, and untreated injury or medical condition;
      (2)   Persistence, despite this failure, in accumulating and controlling
animals.
   ANIMAL PERFORMANCES OR EXHIBITIONS. Any spectacle, performance, display,
act, exhibition or event in which an animal or animals are used.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility or vehicle operated by a governmental or private
entity for the purpose of providing or promoting animal welfare and humane
treatment of animals.
   AT LARGE. Any animal that is not under restraint or confined without means
of escape and off of the owner's property.
   ATTACK DOG. Any dog trained to attack upon command or those which do attack
or have attacked another animal or human being upon command. This definition
excludes K-9 Corps dogs in use by law enforcement agencies.
   BREEDER. Any person, for-profit business or corporation which harbors or
keeps animals (i.e., dogs, cats, minks, chinchillas and ferrets), with the
exception of livestock that are permitted by zoning laws, and allows or causes
these animals to procreate, intentionally or accidentally, for the purpose and
intent of selling, trading, receiving other compensation or to give away the
animals; or any person who has one or more unaltered animal who habitually (two
or more) have accidental litters.
   COUNTY. All unincorporated areas of LaPorte County, Indiana.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal:
         (a)   Which has attacked another animal or livestock;
         (b)   Which has attacked or which has attempted to attack, unprovoked,
any human being, whether on or off the owner's property;
         (c)   Which has bitten or attacked a person, causing wounds or
injuries creating a potential danger to the health and life of the victim;
         (d)   Which has been found to be at large and been documented to be at
large by an Animal Control Officer, police officer, or any county official or
designee and at any time has been documented to show potentially aggressive
behavior;
         (e)   That could be deemed dangerous which has violated three or more
times the public nuisance provision, at the discretion of the Director of the
LaPorte County Animal Shelter.
      (2)   Exceptions:
         (a)   With the exception of those animals which cause injury or damage
to a person while that person is:
            1.   Committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense against
the owner or agent of the owner;
            2.   Committing a criminal trespass upon the premises occupied by
the owner, agent or keeper of the animal; or
            3.   Teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal.
         (b)   This definition also excludes K-9 Corps dogs in use by law
enforcement agencies, trail sponsored field exercises and any dog under its
owner's control that is currently being used in the act of hunting.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is a member of one of the following classes
of animals:
      Dog
      Cat
      Cattle
      Horse
      Donkey/mule
      Sheep
      Llama
      Goat
      Swine
      Rabbit
      Mouse
      Rat
      Guinea pig
      Hamster/gerbil
      Chinchilla
      Ferret
      Pigeon, Homing or Racing
      Chicken, turkey, goose or duck
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous to
the continental United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, except fish, and
fur-bearing animals commercially bred for the furrier trade and birds protected
under federal laws and regulations.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any human or non-human warm-blooded mammal that has been
bitten or in contact with any other animal known or reasonably suspected to
have been infected with rabies.
   FOWL. Any kind of wild or domestic bird, excluding homing or racing pigeons,
canaries, parrots, or similar type of birds normally kept in cages.
   GUIDE DOGS. Dogs formally trained to assist a handicapped person.
   HARBORING. The actions of any person that permit any animal habitually to
remain at large or to be fed within his home or property on which such person
resides or controls. An animal shall be presumed harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for three consecutive days or more.
   HUMANE OFFICER(S). Any person(s) and/or agency designated by the State of
Indiana or the County of LaPorte, as a person(s) who is qualified to perform
the duties required by the law of this county and state regarding animals.
   IMPOUNDMENT. To seize and place into the Animal Control Agency, any animals
found in violation of this chapter and/or Indiana law, or to temporarily house
animals in protective custody due to disaster or other tragic event.
   LEASH. A cord, chain, rope, strap or other such physical restraint.
   LIVESTOCK.
      (1)   All cattle or animals of the bovine species;
      (2)   All horses, mules, burros, and asses or animals of the equine
species;
      (3)   All swine or animals of the porcine species; and
      (4)   All goats or animals of the caprine species.
   NON-IMMUNIZED DOG/CAT. Any dog/cat over three months of age which has not
been vaccinated or immunized against rabies, or if a booster shot thereafter
has not been administered for a period of 12 months from the date of the last
vaccination,
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT. A business, association or entity established or organized
as a "not-for-profit" corporation under state law or recognized as "not-for-
profit" by the Internal Revenue Service or the Indiana Department of Revenue.
FOR-PROFIT means all other types of businesses, associations or entities.
   OWNER. Any person age 18 years or older, partnership or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring one or more animals.
   PET SHOP. Any person, group of persons, partnership or corporation, whether
operated separately or in connection with another business enterprise, engaged
in the humane care and possession for sale, display and sale of pets.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals which:
      (1)   Interferes with passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Is at large or has been found to be at large and documented to be
at large three or more times in a 12 month period;
      (3)   Attacks other animals or persons;
      (4)   Damages private or public property;
      (5)   Causes frequent or long continued loud noises or other sounds
common to its species which disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the
immediate neighborhood;
      (6)   Is at large or on a public playground, swimming pool or school yard
unless the animal is authorized by school officials.
   RABIES VACCINATION. The injection by a licensed veterinarian of a dog or cat
or other animal with a rabies vaccine licensed by the U.S.D.A. and approved by
the Indiana State Board of Health.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of any animal by an adequate leash or lead or
confining it within the real property limits of its owner or agent.
   SMALL ANIMAL. Any small domestic animal including, but not limited to,
ferrets, gerbils, guinea pigs, hamsters, mice and rats.
   STRAY. Any animal that is not within the real property limits of its owner
and is not under restraint or is unattended.
   TETHER. Attaching a domestic animal to a stationary object or pulley run by
means of a chain, rope, tether, cable, or similar restraint. Tether does not
include the use of a leash to walk a domestic pet.
   UNALTERED. An animal that has not been sterilized by a licensed and
accredited veterinarian to prevent it from procreating.
   VETERINARIAN. Any person licensed and accredited to practice veterinary
medicine in the State of Indiana.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal that is not a domestic or exotic animal, with the
exception of small, nonpoisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small cage
birds, which are normally found in the wild state.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. Any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying
or exhibiting one or more species of non-domesticated animals operated by a
person, partnership, corporation or governmental agency that is established for
educational purposes and is properly zoned for such use and which possesses
valid licenses and permits as required under federal law.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)
§ 94.03  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of the provisions of this chapter is specifically
authorized by any peace officer within LaPorte County and any and all animal
control officers of the animal shelter.
   (B)   In the event that either the abovementioned peace officers or animal
control officers observe a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
or receive reliable information which leads to the determination that violation
of the chapter occurs; said officer may cite the owner of any animal in
violation, or any person whose conduct specifically is prohibited by this
chapter.
   (C)   Any said peace officer or animal control officer observing such a
violation or receiving information which leads to the determination of the
violations occurred, shall serve the aforementioned violating individual with a
citation which specifies which portion of the chapter has been violated and
advising said individual that the violation may be prosecuted pursuant to the
terms of the chapter.
   (D)   Prosecution of any said violations of this chapter shall be the
responsibility of the County Attorney. Upon referral of the citation for
violation of the chapter, the office of the County Attorney may file the
appropriate court for adjudication of the violation.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)
§ 94.04  ANIMAL CONTROL FINES.
   (A)   A schedule of animal control fines is hereby adopted.
Running at large:  Domestic 1st offense: Verbal or written warning citation and/or
animals                      impoundment of animal plus reclaim requirements.
                            2nd offense: $50 fine and/or impoundment of animal plus reclaim
                             requirements.
                            3rd offense: $100 fine and/or impoundment of animal plus reclaim
                             requirements.
Barking dog (habitual)       1st offense: Verbal or written warning citation and/or
                             impoundment of animal plus reclaim requirements.
                            2nd offense: $50 fine and/or impoundment of animal plus reclaim
                             requirements.
                            3rd offense: $100 fine and/or impoundment of animal plus reclaim
                             requirements.
                             1st offense: Verbal or written warming with date given to receive
Unvaccinated dog/cat         rabies vaccination. Failure to comply results in $100 fine and/or
                             impoundment.
                             1st offense: Verbal or written warming with date given to receive
Unlicensed dog               rabies vaccination. Failure to comply results in $100 fine and/or
                             impoundment.
Animal bites                 1st offense: $50 fine and/or impoundment plus reclaim
                             requirements.
                            2nd offense: $100 fine and/or impoundment plus reclaim
                             requirements.
                            3rd offense: $100 fine, impoundment plus court determining
                             permanent removal of biting animal.  Daily fee until court date.
Running at large:  Domestic 1st offense: Verbal or written warning citation and/or
animals                      impoundment of animal plus reclaim requirements.
                            2nd offense: $50 fine and/or impoundment of animal plus reclaim
                             requirements.
                            3rd offense: $100 fine and/or impoundment of animal plus reclaim
                             requirements.
Barking dog (habitual)       1st offense: Verbal or written warning citation and/or
                             impoundment of animal plus reclaim requirements.
                            2nd offense: $50 fine and/or impoundment of animal plus reclaim
                             requirements.
                            3rd offense: $100 fine and/or impoundment of animal plus reclaim
                             requirements.
                             1st offense: Verbal or written warming with date given to receive
Unvaccinated dog/cat         rabies vaccination. Failure to comply results in $100 fine and/or
                             impoundment.
                             1st offense: Verbal or written warming with date given to receive
Unlicensed dog               rabies vaccination. Failure to comply results in $100 fine and/or
                             impoundment.
Animal bites                 1st offense: $50 fine and/or impoundment plus reclaim
                             requirements.
                            2nd offense: $100 fine and/or impoundment plus reclaim
                             requirements.
                            3rd offense: $100 fine, impoundment plus court determining
                             permanent removal of biting animal.  Daily fee until court date.
Fees collected from these violations go into shelter budget.
 
   (B)   Such fines will be paid to the County Clerk who serves as Clerk of the
LaPorte County Violations Bureau.
   (C)   All fines collected shall be deposited in a separate fund for use in
the animal control shelter as part of the shelter's succeeding annual budget.
   (D)   A failure to pay any fine imposed will subject the individual to an
enforcement action.  In the event of any enforcement action, the individual
could be liable for all expenses necessary for action to include attorney fees
and a fine not to exceed $2,500 per day, per violation.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-8-05)
§ 94.05  ANIMAL CONTROL ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The LaPorte Animal Control Advisory Board is empowered to establish
and collect fees in accord with the following definitions and provisions.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this section:
      BOARD, as used herein, shall mean the LaPorte Animal Control Advisory
Board as provided for in LaPorte County Resolution 89-5.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AGENCY. Any governmental or private entity charged with or
contracted with and given authority for the enforcement of the provisions of
this section for and on behalf of the county.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The county animal control officer as provided for
in LaPorte County Resolution 89-5.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. An agent in principle of the Board and/or
animal control officer.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation or association.
   (C)   Fees for services. The Animal Control Advisory Board having
jurisdiction may charge a service fee not in the excess of the cost for
providing to any person, who owns an animal or animal for the care of domestic
animals that are under the custody of the LaPorte Animal Shelter, specifically
a fee will be charged for shots and various medicines.
   (D)   Collection, accounting and disposition.
      (1)   Collection of fees. The Board shall collect such fees established
as a part of this section in accord with the following schedule and accordingly
for various medicines:
Antibiotics                          $5.00 - $15.00
Baytril                              $20.00 - $30.00
Bordetella                           $10.00 - $20.00
Capstar                              $10.00 - $20.00
Cephalexin                           $20.00 - $30.00
Cerenia                              $15.00 - $25.00
Cestex                               $5.00 - $15.00
Cheristin Cat Flea Topical           $10.00 - $20.00
Canine Influenza Vaccine             $15.00 - $25.00
Clean Ears                           $5.00 - $15.00
Comfy Cone                           $20.00 - $30.00
Convenia                             $20.00 - $30.00
Cytology In-House                    $15.00 - $25.00
Declaw All                           $100.00 - $110.00
Declaw Front                         $50.00 - $60.00
Dewclaw                              $75.00 - $85.00
Dewormer                             $5.00 - $15.00
Dexamethasone Inj                    $10.00 - $20.00
DHLP/P                               $10.00 - $20.00
Doxycycline                          $25.00 - $35.00
Ear Cleaning                         $5.00 - $15.00
Enthropion Surgery                   $75.00 - $85.00
Euthanasia                           $50.00 - $60.00
Euthanasia W Veterinarian            $75.00 - $85.00
Exam                                 $20.00 - $30.00
Eye Ointment                         $5.00 - $15.00
Fecal Check                          $10.00 - $20.00
FELV/FIV/HW Test                     $35.00 - $45.00
Fluorescein Stain                    $10.00 - $20.00
Front Declaw                         $50.00 - $60.00
FVRCP                                $10.00 - $20.00
Heartworm 4DX Test                   $25.00 - $35.00
Histopath                            $50.00 - $60.00
Immiticide                           $250.00 - $260.00
Labwork                              $75.00 - $85.00
Lyme Vaccine                         $20.00 - $30.00
Meloxicam                            $20.00 - $30.00
Metronidazole                        $20.00 - $30.00
Microchip                            $25.00 - $35.00
Microfilaricide                      $15.00 - $25.00
Milbemite                            $20.00 - $30.00
Nail Trim                            $5.00 - $15.00
Neuter                               $50.00 - $60.00
Nextgard 4-10 LBS                    $5.00 - $15.00
Nextgard 24.1-60 LBS                 $10.00 - $20.00
Onsior                               $20.00 - $30.00
Panacur                              $5.00 - $15.00
Parvo Test                           $25.00 - $35.00
PEN G                                $15.00 - $25.00
Prednisone                           $15.00 - $25.00
PROPOFLO 28                          $25.00 - $35.00
Pyratel Pamoate                      $5.00 - $15.00
Rabies                               $10.00 - $20.00
Rimadyl 100MG                        $20.00 - $30.00
Rimadyl 25MG                         $10.00 - $20.00
Rimadyl 75MG                         $15.00 - $25.00
Rimadyl Inj                          $15.00 - $25.00
Simplicef 100MG                      $20.00 - $30.00
Skin Scraping                        $10.00 - $20.00
Spay                                 $50.00 - $75.00
Tramadol 50MG                        $15.00 - $25.00
Tresederm                            $15.00 - $25.00
Trifexis 20.1-40 LBS                 $85.00 - $95.00
Trifexis 40-60                       $85.00 - $95.00
Urinalysis                           $15.00 - $25.00
XK (0.3 ML Xylazine & 0.7 ML Ketase) $25.00 - $35.00
 
      (2)   Accounting for fees. All fees collected by the Board shall be
accounted for in detail for each service provided.
      (3)   Disposition of fees. All fees collected by the Board shall be
transferred to the LaPorte County Animal Control Non-Reverting Fund. The monies
collected in accord with the provisions of this section shall be used only for
the maintenance of future expansion of the program from which they were
derived.
(Ord. 2015-05A, passed 6-17-15)
PROHIBITED ACTIVITY
§ 94.15  PERMITTING DOMESTIC ANIMALS TO RUN AT LARGE.
   No person who owns, harbors or keeps domestic animals shall permit such
animals to run at large or roam the countryside away from the premises where
usually kept. The term AT LARGE means of the person owning or keeping such
domestic animal and while not under the control of such person or his agent, by
leash or other effective means, excepting however, hunting or working dogs,
which accompanied by their owners or keepers engaged in lawful hunting or in
training of such dogs, or in or about a farm on which such animal is usually
kept. Permitting an animal to run at large may result in the owner/keeper
receiving a citation(s) and/or the impoundment of the animal running at large.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16  ANIMAL BITES; REPORTING AND QUARANTINE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   It is and shall be the duty of a physician in attendance on every case
of a human being bitten by an animal to make a report thereof to the LaPorte
County Health Department; if no physician is in attendance, if an adult, it
shall be that person's duty to make such a report; if the person bitten is a
minor, it shall be the duty of the parent or guardian to make such a report.
   (B)   If any person is a victim of an animal bite, he shall immediately
notify the County Health Department of the incident, and provide a description
of the animals and the identification, if possible, of the owner. When an
animal is determined to have bitten a person, the animal shall be confined in
quarantine for a period of not less than ten days. The owner or person having
had such custody shall immediately make a report to the County Health
Department when and if such animal dies and shall in addition have a licensed
veterinarian preserve the head in ice for examination. If the animal lives
beyond such period, this fact will also be reported to the County Health
Department.
   (C)   If the owner of an animal which has bitten a person has proof of
current rabies vaccination, the animal may be left in the charge of the owner,
under quarantine, unless, in the judgment of the animal control officer, and
based upon considerations of public safety, the animal control officer
determines it should be removed to an animal shelter or veterinary hospital for
the period of observation.
   (D)   In addition to any other legal obligations prescribed by law, the
owner shall be liable for all costs incurred in the quarantine of the animal.
   (E)   (1)   If the ownership of the biting animal cannot be determined, or
if the owner does not furnish proof of current rabies vaccination, the animal
shall be confined for a quarantine period of observation of not less than ten
days at a licensed veterinary clinic or hospital. The owner shall be liable for
all fees and costs associated with this mandatory quarantine period.
      (2)   If there is no veterinary clinic or hospital available at which to
confine the animal for the required quarantine period, the animal shall be
impounded under the authority of the County Animal Control Agency and confined
in the county's animal control facility for the period of observation of not
less than ten days. Again, the owner is responsible for all fees and costs
associated with this mandatory quarantine period.
   (F)   Animal control officers shall be empowered to enter onto private
property for the purpose of impounding animals which are known to have bitten a
person and shall obtain legal process to do so if necessary. A daily quarantine
fee for smaller animals of $25 for the first day and $15 per each additional
day will be charged to such owner until such time the animal is released to the
owner or disposed of. A daily quarantine fee for larger animals, such as
horses, of $25 per day will be charged to such owner until such time the animal
is released to the owner or disposed of.
   (G)   Unless otherwise provided, the county and any of its agents shall
comply with the standards set forth in I.C. 15-17-6-1 through I.C. 15-17-6-14
entitled "Rabies".
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17  RABID ANIMALS.
   No person shall harbor any animal affected with rabies or hydrophobia or
allow them to run at large within the county. It shall be the duty of every
animal control officer, police officer and his deputies, to humanely euthanize
any animal found to be so infected.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18  DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor a dangerous
animal without keeping such animal securely confined on the owner's or keeper's
premises and under such restraint that person's lawfully on the premises, or
elsewhere, may not be attacked or bitten by such animal. The premises where
such an animal is kept shall be adequately posted with warning signs.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, excepting a duly constituted
peace officer or animal control officer engaged in the discharge of a duty
imposed upon him by the laws of this state or by the laws or postal regulations
of the United States of America, or this chapter to enter such premises or
fenced area so posted, without the permission of or in the presence of the
owner/keeper of such known dangerous animal.
   (C)   Any person harboring such an animal who shall violate this section
with the result that bodily injury is inflicted upon a human being at a time
and place where such injured person had a right to be, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined any sum not exceeding $500.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19  TEASING AND TORMENTING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to annoy or tease persistently any
animal thereby causing such an animal to become irritated and dangerous. No
person who is attacked or bitten by an animal, shown or proved to have been so
teased or annoyed by such person, nor anyone having a derivative claim by
reason of any injury to a person, will have any right of action to recover
damages from the owner or keeper of such animal.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20  GENERAL ANIMAL CARE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every owner and/or his agent within the county shall see that each of his
animals:
   (A)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not confined
so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in its own excrement, but shall not
include the normal husbandry practice of confined feeding.
   (B)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water, which is proper and
nutritional for that species and age of animal.
   (C)   Has adequate protection from the elements and weather conditions
suitable for the age, species and physical condition of the animal so as to
maintain the animal in a state of good health. Shelter for livestock includes
an actual structure that provides adequate protection from the elements or
natural features such as trees and topography that provide adequate protection
from the elements. Shelter for a dog or cat shall include one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Residence of owner or other individual.
      (2)   A dog house that is an enclosed structure with a roof and of
appropriate dimensions for the breed and size of the dog, as defined in this
chapter. A dog or cat shall not be left outside, restrained by chain or leash,
for a prolonged and unreasonable amount of time. The dog house shall have dry
bedding when the outdoor temperature is or is predicted to drop below freezing.
If the temperature is or is predicted to be below 10° Fahrenheit, a dog or cat
shall not be left outdoors. Dogs and cats must be brought into a temperature
controlled facility when the temperature constitutes a health hazard for that
particular animal, or when a heat advisory, wind chill warning, or tornado
warning has been issued by local, state, or national authority, except when the
dog is in visual range of a competent adult who is outside with the dog.
      (3)   The dog house shall be positioned in such a manner so that it is
not in direct sunlight when the heat is extreme.
      (4)   A structure, including, but not limited to a garage, barn or shed
that is sufficiently insulated and ventilated to protect the animal from
exposure to extreme temperatures, or if not sufficiently insulated and
ventilated, contains a dog house as provided under division (C)(2) of this
section that is accessible to the animal.
      (5)   If any animal is restrained by a chain, leash or similar restraint,
it shall be designed and placed to prevent choking or strangulation. Such chain
or restraint shall not be less than ten feet in length, and shall be attached
in such a way to prevent the animal from tangling itself.
      (6)   If ill, diseased or injured, the animal must receive proper
veterinary care as necessary to
promote good health of the animal and prevent the transmittal of disease to
other animals or human beings.
      (7)   Is not beaten, cruelly ill-treated, overloaded, overworked,
tormented or otherwise abused or neglected, nor shall any person cause,
instigate or permit any dog fight or combat between animals, fowls or humans.
      (8)   Is not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian or by accepted veterinary procedures and accepted animal husbandry
procedures with the exception of tattooing for identification purposes and
grooming.
      (9)   In the case of an animal over the age of three months, is properly
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually, or upon such
frequency as may be specified by Indiana Code, and such animals shall be
licensed as required by this chapter and state law.
      (10)   In mating season, an animal shall be kept in a secure enclosure in
such a manner that it cannot come into contact with another animal of the same
species for unplanned breeding.
      (11)   If an animal is kept in an enclosure, the enclosure must be
appropriate to the individual species and/or breed of the animal, and that said
enclosure reasonably and reliably prevents the animal's escape. To ensure the
safety of both the public and the animal, if an animal has previously escaped
from an enclosure, adequate repairs and/or upgrades must be done in order to
keep the animal securely enclosed.
      (12)   No person shall leave any animal unattended in a vehicle when the
conditions in that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal by
exposure of the animal to extreme heat, cold, or other dangerous condition.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21  VACCINATION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No animal owner or his agents shall keep or harbor a dog or cat over
the age of three months unless it has been vaccinated annually by a licensed
veterinarian with an anti-rabies vaccine.
   (B)   Proof of vaccination shall be maintained by the owner for display if
requested by the county or its agents.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22  POISONING OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person with the intent to destroy or kill any
animal, to feed the animal of another person's any poisoned food or leave
poisoned food where it may be found and eaten or consumed by such animal.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23  ENTICING ANIMALS.
   No person shall entice any licensed dog or other animal away from the
premises of the person owning, keeping or harboring same, or entice any such
animal from any highway, street, alley or public place in this county with the
intention of depriving the owner, keeper or person harboring the same, of the
possession thereof, except as authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24  TRESPASSING TO ENTICE AWAY.
   No person shall enter or invade the private premises of another to capture,
entice or take any licensed dog or other animal out of the enclosure or
premises of the person harboring the same, or molest or seize any such dog or
other animal anywhere while the same is accompanied by his owner, keeper or
custodian; or bring within the county any animal for the purposes of impounding
or otherwise disposing of the same or collecting any fee or regard for the
return thereof, except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25  FRESH PURSUIT.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer or animal control officer upon receiving
information or personal observation that a diseased or dangerous animal, or
unlicensed, untagged dog/cat, licensed or tagged, is or has been observed to be
illegally roaming at large, unattended by his owner or keeper, or is reasonably
suspected of being a dangerous animal at large, shall if in fresh pursuit of
such animal, follow and enter upon the owner or keeper's premises, if
necessary, and impound such an animal in an established city, town, or county
animal shelter. Such an animal when so captured and impounded will be kept
confined, well fed, watered and cared for pending reclamation by its rightful
owner/keeper. If not reclaimed within four days if unlicensed or 14 days if
licensed, the animal may be adopted or humanely euthanized as the impounding
office may elect.
   (B)   In the pursuit, capture and apprehension of any such animal as
contemplated here, the officer in fresh pursuit will not be taken to have
committed a trespass on any premises where he/she is required to go in pursuit
of such animal, but he may not use more than reasonable force in the discharge
of the duty imposed upon him by this chapter. Any person or persons interfering
with or obstructing such officer in the discharge of his duties, may himself be
subject to arrest and, as provided for by law, for resisting arrest or in
interference with a peace officer, nor will such officer be liable in damages
to anyone except for gross willful and wanton misconduct in the attempted
discharge of his duty.
   (C)   In the event the animal being pursued is not immediately apprehended
or captured and escapes the officer in fresh pursuit, such officer may continue
his search until the animal is captured and taken into custody, without a
search warrant, providing the officer has reason to believe such animal is on
the premises where last seen. If the search is abandoned however, such officer
will be required to secure a search warrant before further search on return to
take up the trail of such animal.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)
IMPOUNDING PROCEDURES
§ 94.35  IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal whether licensed or unlicensed, may be captured and
impounded by any law enforcement officer or animal control officer if such
animal:
      (1)   Is found running at large within the county;
      (2)   Is a menace to persons or other animals;
      (3)   Is a public nuisance as defined by this chapter;
      (4)   Is suffering or reasonably suspected to be suffering from an
infectious or contagious disease;
      (5)   Causes serious annoyance or disturbance to persons in the
neighborhood of continuous habitual actions that don't appear to be corrected
by the owner of such an animal once advised of such annoyance;
      (6)   It appears to be vicious or is permitted to go unconfined and
unrestrained;
      (7)   Is found to be abandoned, neglected or tortured;
      (8)   Is a dog not wearing a collar or license tag as required by law;
      (9)   Is a dog or cat over the age of three months and is not properly
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian on an annual basis;
      (10)   There is a breach of spay/neuter agreement after being adopted
from the LaPorte County Small Animal Shelter;
      (11)   Failure of animal owner to obtain rabies vaccination after reclaim
of animal from shelter; and
      (12)   As otherwise provided for and required by this chapter.
   (B)   Any person owning or having in his or her possession or under his or
her control any animal constituting a public nuisance may be summoned before a
court of competent jurisdiction to show cause as to why such animal should not
be confined, disposed of or removed, or the nuisance otherwise abated and, upon
a finding that the animal constitutes a public nuisance, the court shall order
the animal in question, either to be confined, to be disposed of or to be
removed, or such other relief shall be granted as the court shall order.
   (C)   If the LaPorte County Animal Shelter or its duly authorized agent has
reason to believe that any animal has, without provocation, attacked or bitten
any person or animal, the animal may be taken into custody and impounded by the
LaPorte County Animal Shelter pending determination by the court pursuant to
this section.
   (D)   Any person who owns any dog, cat or other animal that has been
adjudged a public nuisance pursuant to this chapter by the court shall be
responsible for the fees connected with the impounding of the animal by the
LaPorte County Animal Shelter.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)
§ 94.36  CARE OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (A)   All animals impounded shall be given proper care, food and medicine
until disposed of or released as hereinafter provided. The Animal Control
Officer or his/her assistants shall make a record in a book kept for such
purposes of the breed, color, sex of the animal and whether such animal is
licensed or not. If such animal is licensed and wearing a tag, the number of
such tag and, if shown or known, the name and address of the owner/keeper of
such animal and any other facts serving to identify such animal. Such record
shall be open to public inspection.
   (B)   Immediately after the impounding of any animal at the LaPorte County
Animal Shelter, a reasonable effort shall be made to notify the owner of the
animal as soon as possible if the same can be determined by license or tag.
Additionally, the owner of the impounded animal shall be provided with a
summary of the facts and circumstances surrounding the impoundment, the
disposition procedure(s), and redemption requirements as set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)
§ 94.37  REDEMPTION AND ADOPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; EUTHANASIA OF DISEASED
ANIMALS.
   (A)   Redemption.
      (1)   If the person owning, keeping or harboring an animal which has been
impounded notifies the Animal Control Agency within four days of his claim to
such animal, the animal control officer may permit such person to redeem the
animal. In the event such animal is a dog or cat, such owner/keeper must pay
the LaPorte County Animal Shelter any license fee due for the current year, if
any, as well as show proof of current rabies vaccination or presentation by the
animal owner of a receipt showing prepayment of a veterinarian's charges for
such vaccination. A dog or cat not previously vaccinated must be vaccinated for
rabies by a licensed veterinarian within 72 hours after such release. Failure
of the animal owner to obtain such vaccination after such release shall
constitute a breach of the release agreement and entitle the Animal Control
Agency to regain possession of the animal or issue appropriate citations.
      (2)   A licensed dog may not be redeemed by anyone other than the owner
until the expiration of 14 days.
      (3)   An owner/keeper redeeming an impounded dog or cat shall pay to the
county or its agent a redemption fee of $25 plus $10 for each additional day
before such animal is released to such owner/keeper by the County Animal
Control Agency. Such redemption fees shall be doubled per impoundment for each
subsequent time within a three month period that the same or any other animal
belonging to the same owner/keeper may be impounded. The County Animal Control
Agency shall collect such redemption fees for the county and shall account to
the county and pay over all such fees to the County Auditor at the end of each
month. If the owner/keeper has unpaid fines and/or costs from a previous
redemption of an impounded animal, or an unpaid civil judgment which has been
rendered against the owner/keeper from a previous violation of this chapter,
all unpaid fines, fees and/or judgments shall be paid in full prior to
redemption of the impounded animal. This requirement may be waived at the
discretion of the LaPorte County Animal Shelter Director or the LaPorte County
Animal Control Advisory Board.
      (4)   An owner/keeper redeeming an impounded larger animal, aside from
dogs and cats, including but not limited to, horses, miniature ponies, goats
and sheep shall pay to the county or its agent a redemption fee of $25 plus $15
for each additional day before such animal is released to such owner/keeper by
the County Animal Control Agency. Such redemption fees shall be doubled per
impoundment for each subsequent time within a three month period that the same
or any other animal belonging to the same owner/keeper may be impounded. The
County Animal Control Agency shall collect such redemption fees for the county
and shall account to the county and pay over all such fees to the County
Auditor at the end of each month. If the owner/keeper has unpaid fines and/or
costs from a previous redemption of an impounded animal, or an unpaid civil
judgment which has been rendered against the owner/keeper from a previous
violation of this chapter, all unpaid fines, fees and/or judgments shall be
paid in full prior to redemption of the impounded animal. This requirement may
be waived at the discretion of the LaPorte County Animal Shelter Director or
the LaPorte County Animal Control Advisory Board.
      (5)   Release of the impounded animal to its owner may be denied by the
LaPorte County Animal Shelter Director or the LaPorte County Animal Control
Advisory Board, if it is determined the animal is vicious or dangerous,
diseased, a danger to public health and safety of the citizens of LaPorte
County or for any other good and sufficient reason at the complete discretion
of the LaPorte County Animal Shelter Director or the LaPorte County Animal
Control Advisory Board.
      (6)   In the event an animal is denied return to its owner by the LaPorte
County Animal Shelter Director, or any other official having authority to
impound animals under this chapter, the owner and animal shall be subject to
the following bond procedure:
         (a)   The owner shall be given written notice of the decision to
retain the animal and provided with a bond amount and initial hearing date. The
hearing date shall be within 30 days of receipt of notice.
         (b)   Not later than ten days after written notice of the animals
retention, the owner must post bond with the LaPorte County Clerk's Office.
         (c)   The bond amount shall be sufficient to provide for the animal's
care and keeping for at least 30 days, beginning on the date of first
impoundment. The bond amount shall be calculated utilizing the daily redemption
fees defined in division (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section.
         (d)   If a bond expires, or if the owner fails to post an initial
bond, ownership of the animal shall be assigned to the LaPorte County Animal
Shelter, and the animal may be disposed of in accord with animal shelter
policies after determination and order of the court at the scheduled hearing
date.
         (e)   Any animal subject to such bond may be euthanized if it has been
determined by a licensed veterinarian to be suffering extreme pain, or if it is
jointly determined by the impounding official, attending veterinarian, and/or
the director of the facility at which the animal is impounded, that said animal
cannot be reliably handled or cared for without significant risk to the safety
and welfare of the custodians during the impoundment.
         (f)   Once disposition of the animal is determined and an order of the
court has been issued, any bond posted shall be released to the LaPorte County
Animal Shelter to cover the costs for impoundment and care of said animal for
the number of days the animal was in custody of the LaPorte County Animal
Shelter. Any unused portions of the bond shall be returned to the individual
who posted the bond after payment of all expenses, redemption fees and/or fines
owned to the LaPorte County Animal Shelter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Adoption.
      (1)   Unlicensed animals/unclaimed animals may be redeemed by anyone upon
paying to the Animal Control Agency the adoption fees set forth:
 
Animal Adoption Fee Spay or Neuter Deposit Total Fee
Dog    $70          $30                    $100
Cat    $45          $30                    $75
 
Any animal adopted from the local animal control agency or local humane society
must be spayed or neutered by a licensed veterinarian within 30 days from the
date of adoption if the animal is over six months of age or older. If the
animal is under six months of age upon adoption, it shall be spayed or neutered
by a licensed veterinarian upon reaching the age of six months. An exception is
made only if the licensed veterinarian certifies that said animal is physically
unable to undergo such operation within the time limitations. The individual
adopting the animal must sign a written agreement with the adopting facility
guaranteeing that such animal will be spayed or neutered within the time period
specified in this section. No dog or cat may be redeemed for sale or used by an
individual laboratory engaging in testing, research or experimentation
involving animals.
      (2)   An adoption fee for smaller animals, aside from dogs and cats,
including but not limited to, rabbits, guinea pigs and birds shall be $20.
      (3)   An adoption fee for larger animals, aside from dogs and cats,
including but not limited to, horses, miniature ponies, goats and sheep shall
be $100.
      (4)   Any animal which appears to be suffering from rabies or infected
with any other contagious or infectious disease shall not be released but shall
be humanely euthanized.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with
any of the mandatory requirements of this chapter is guilty of an ordinance
violation and shall be subject to a written citation. Except in such cases
where different or additional punishment is prescribed in this chapter or by
any ordinance of LaPorte County or by Indiana statute, any person found
violating this chapter shall be punished by a fine as set forth below:
 
First offense, minimum fine                       $50.00 per violation
First offense, fines not to exceed                $2,500
Second or subsequent offense                      $100.00 per violation
Second or subsequent offense, fines not to exceed $5,000
 
   (B)   In the event that an ordinance of LaPorte County or Indiana state
laws, rules or regulations shall prescribe a penalty different or in addition
to that prescribed by this chapter, the provisions of such other ordinances,
laws, rules or regulations of LaPorte County or the State shall control.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of, or failing to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter, is in violation of a separate
offense for each violation. If any violation is continuing, each day's
violation shall be deemed as a separate violation.
   (D)   The county may bring a civil action to enjoin any person from engaging
in conduct without license as required under the terms and conditions of this
chapter or for any other violation of the terms of this chapter.
   (E)   Upon the failure of any person who violates any provision of this
chapter to pay the penalty as provided herein, a court hearing will be held on
the date indicated on each written citation, and the court shall have the power
to enter a civil judgment according to the provisions of this chapter and
applicable Indiana law, including court costs.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 3-20-19)
CHAPTER 95:  ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Parking and storage as a nuisance
   
95.04   Applicability
   
95.05   Exemptions
   
95.06   Removal
Cross-reference:
   Master Plan, see Title XV
   Definitions, see §
150.05
   Administration and enforcement, see §§
150.15  through
150.21
§ 95.01  PURPOSE.
   To monitor, control or prohibit the keeping of motor vehicles without
current license plates or any junked or abandoned vehicles on private or public
property and providing penalties for the violation thereof.
§ 95.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED or JUNK VEHICLES.  All the conditions as described in I.C. 9-13-2-
1 and the same is adopted herein.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  Any officer or agent of the LaPorte County Sheriff’s
Department.
   VEHICLE.  Any land, air or water vehicles which can be used for towing or
transporting people  or materials, including but not limited to automobiles,
trucks, buses, motor homes, motorized campers, motorcycles, motor scooters,
trailers, mobile homes, snowmobiles, dune buggies, boats, airplanes and
gliders.
§ 95.03  PARKING AND STORAGE AS A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to keep, park or store any wrecked,
junked or abandoned vehicles or other vehicles, or parts thereof on private or
public property within the unincorporated areas of LaPorte County except in a
garage or other enclosure so as not to be exposed to public view except as
herein provided.
   (B)   The keeping, parking or storing of any wrecked, junked or abandoned
public property, except as provided herein is declared to be a nuisance and
unlawful.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.04  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It is prima facie evidence that a vehicle is junked or wrecked if such
vehicle remains on private property for more than 30 days and meets any of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Does not have a current license plate.
      (2)   Has broken or missing windows or flat or missing tires and in the
opinion of the enforcement officer, appears to be mechanically inoperable.
      (3)   Has missing bumpers or fenders or is in any other way partially
dismantled or appears wrecked.
      (4)   Does not have a transmission, differential or engine or appears in
any other way to be mechanically inoperable.
   (B)   It is prima facie evidence that a vehicle is abandoned if it meets any
of the following criteria:
      (1)   The vehicle is located on public property illegally.
      (2)   A vehicle is left on public property continuously without being
removed from a period of seven days.
      (3)   A vehicle is located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicles
traffic or on a public right-of-way.
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours.
      (5)   A vehicle that meets any of the criteria as contained in division
(A)(1) through (4) of this section and is left on public property.
      (6)   A vehicle that is removed by a salvage yard and or public agency
upon request of an officer enforcing this chapter and the vehicle once
impounded is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or his agent within 15 days
of its removal.
      (7)   A vehicle which is three or more model years old and appears
mechanically inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a
visible location and in a location visible from public property for more than
30 days.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.05  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any salvage yard or junkyard, properly zoned as such or operating as a
lawful non- conforming use, and not in violation of any zoning ordinance, shall
be exempt from the provisions of this division. Such salvage yard or junkyard
shall be enclosed by a fence at least six feet in height so that such junked or
wrecked vehicles shall not be readily visible to the public.
   (B)   Any person lawfully engaged in the business of selling new and used
automobiles on real estate properly zoned therefore may display the new or used
vehicles for sale without having license plates.
   (C)   Any person engaged in the repair of automobiles may store wrecked
automobiles on their property provided that they are not in violation of any
zoning ordinance for a period not to exceed 30 days. Such 30-day period shall
not apply to a single vehicle but to an accumulative, continuous period
involving any number of vehicles. Further, in the event that any person engaged
in the repair of automobiles shall store the same entirely within the confines
of a fenced in area with the fence at least six feet in height so that stored
automobiles shall not be readily visible to the public, such person shall not
be considered in violation of this chapter so long as such person does not
violate any zoning ordinances of LaPorte County or in the opinion of the
enforcement officer such storage yard does not constitute a salvage or
junkyard.
   (D)   Boats shall be excepted provided they have a current DNR sticker or
license as provided by State law and are stored in a manner not to interfere
with the enjoyment of property of adjoining landowners.
   (E)   Any person who disagrees with any decision of any enforcement officer
involved with the enforcement of this chapter shall be entitled to a hearing
before the LaPorte County Board of Commissioners or an appropriate
administrative law judge if an administrative law judge has been adopted by the
LaPorte County Commissioners concerning such order. In the event that an
administrative law judge ordinance has been adopted by the LaPorte
County Board of Commissioners, an appeal of enforcement shall be made pursuant
to that ordinance as opposed to directly to the LaPorte County Board of
Commissioners.
§ 95.06  REMOVAL.
   (A)   The enforcement officer is authorized to issue a warning or written
demand to the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession of the premises on
which any wrecked, junked or abandoned vehicle is kept in violation of this
chapter notifying such individuals to remove such vehicle from the premises
within ten days from the receipt of such notice. Such notice will further
provide that failure to remove such vehicle could result in fines not to exceed
$2,500 per day as well as any other costs that may be assessed if legal action
is necessary for the enforcement of this section.  Upon the failure or refusal
of such person to remove such vehicle within the time period specified, an
enforcement action may be filed before a hearing officer designated by the
LaPorte County Board of Commissioners or the  LaPorte Circuit Court concerning
the failure to remove such vehicle.  After hearing all facts, such hearing
officer may determine that such vehicle is not in violation of this chapter or,
if in violation:
      (1)   Remove such vehicle within a specified period of time and/or be
subject to fines not to exceed $2,500 per day for each day such violation
continues to exist.
      (2)   Order a storage yard to remove such vehicle and assess the costs of
such removal and storage to the owner.
      (3)   If such vehicle is not claimed by the owner from the storage yard
within 15 days from removal by paying the actual costs of such removal and
storage or if not claimed within the time period specified by I.C. 9-22-1 et
seq, such vehicle may be sold and disposed of as provided accordingly.
   (B)   If in the opinion of the officer, the market value of such vehicle or
parts thereof are determined to be less than $500, the officer may immediately
order the disposal of such vehicle to an automobile scrap yard pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 9-22-1-13 or any subsequent amendments thereto.
   (C)   The removal and disposal of abandoned vehicles, I.C. 9-22-1, as
promulgated by the State Legislature is made a part of this chapter and shall
govern all areas not specifically addressed herein.  LaPorte County
specifically adopts the procedures contained therein for the sale and disposal
of abandoned vehicles once such vehicle has been impounded or towed and held
beyond the 15 days prescribed by this chapter without any owner claiming such
vehicle.
   (D)   The powers given to the LaPorte County Sheriff Department in this
division are intended in no way to abridge or void existing authority given to
any other department or agency of LaPorte County or enforcement of any other
order that is now in effect.
(Ord. 2002-03, passed 2-19-02; Am. Ord. 2004-01, passed 2-17-04)
CHAPTER 96:  OUTDOOR HYDRONIC HEATERS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Regulations for outdoor hydronic heaters
   
96.03   Placement and use requirements
   
96.04   Permit requirements
   
96.05   Grandfather provisions
   
96.06   Enforcement, violations and penalties
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIMNEY. Any flue or flues that carry off exhaust from an outdoor hydronic
heater or burn chamber.
   EXISTING OUTDOOR HYDRONIC HEATER.  Such heater purchased, installed and
operating prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   NATURAL WOOD.  Seasoned dry wood which has not been painted, varnished or
coated with a similar material has not been pressure-treated with preservatives
and does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
   NEW OUTDOOR HYDRONIC HEATER.  Such heater that will be purchased and
installed and operating after the effective date of this chapter.
   OUTDOOR HYDRONIC HEATER.  Any equipment, device, appliance or apparatus or
any part thereof which is installed, affixed or situated outdoors for the
primary purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or energy used as a
component of a heating system providing heat for any interior space or water
source. An OUTDOOR HYDRONIC HEATER may also be referred to as an OUTDOOR WOOD
BOILER.
(Ord. 2007-10-B, passed 8-7-07)
§ 96.02  REGULATIONS FOR OUTDOOR HYDRONIC HEATERS.
   No person shall from the effective date of this chapter construct, install
or operate an outdoor hydronic heater unless the following conditions are met:
   (A)   An outdoor hydronic heater may not be operated until such operation
conforms with the manufacturer's instructions regarding such operation and the
requirements of this chapter concerning fuels, setback requirements, chimney
heights and/or emission standards.
   (B)   An outdoor hydronic heater shall be installed, operated and maintained
in conformance with the manufacturer's instructions and the requirements of
this chapter. In the event of a conflict, the requirements of this chapter
shall apply unless the manufacturer's instructions are stricter, in which case
the manufacturer's instructions shall apply.
   (C)   The owner of any outdoor hydronic heater shall produce the
manufacturer's owner's manual or installation instructions to the LaPorte
County Building Inspection Department for review prior to installation.
   (D)   An outdoor hydronic heater shall be laboratory tested and listed to
appropriate safety standards such as US, CAN/CSA, ANSI or other applicable
safety standards.
   (E)   New and existing outdoor hydronic heaters must meet the opacity (smoke
density requirements) of not more than 20% based on the average of readings
taken during six consecutive minutes, 24 observations in an hour. The
observations must follow the procedures of the USEPA Test Method 9 found in 40
CFR Part 60, Appendix A and as subsequently amended.
   (F)   New outdoor hydronic heaters that meet the following emissions
standards shall be placed without restrictions except for side and rear yard
setbacks. Such outdoor hydronic heater may not be placed in front of the
dwelling of the residence it serves. The emissions standard must be certified
to meet the particular emissions limit of 0.32#/mmbtu heat output in addition
within each of the burn rate categories, no individual test shall exceed 15
grams per hour.
(Ord. 2007-10-B, passed 8-7-07)
§ 96.03  PLACEMENT AND USE REQUIREMENTS.
   Outdoor hydronic heaters shall be installed, operated and maintained
pursuant to the following conditions:
   (A)   Fuel burned in any new or existing outdoor hydronic heater shall be
only natural dry seasoned untreated wood, wood pellets, corn products or other
listed fuels specifically permitted by the manufacturer’s instructions such as
fuel oil, natural gas or propane backup.
   (B)   No outdoor hydronic heater may be operated between the period of May
15 through September 15 of each year.
   (C)   All outdoor hydronic heaters shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Such heater must be located on the property in compliance with the
manufacture's recommendations and/or testing and listing requirements for
clearance to combustible materials; 
      (2)   Such heater must be located 25 feet from the property line; and
      (3)   No such heater may be placed in front of any residence which it
serves.
(Ord. 2007-10-B, passed 8-7-07)
§ 96.04  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to placement and installation of any outdoor hydronic heater, a
permit must be obtained from the Office of the Building Commissioner. The cost
of such permit shall be $50. Failure to obtain any permit before installation
will subject an individual to fines and penalties and an action as a nuisance
as prescribed in §
96.06.
   (B)   At the time of the application, the applicant must provide the
Building Commissioners a plot map showing all buildings and property lines and
distances within 300 feet of the placement of such outdoor hydronic heater. A
copy of the manufacturer's specifications must be provided.
   (C)   The installation of a new outdoor hydronic heater in any subdivision,
whether such subdivision is  major, minor or undeveloped, is prohibited unless
the outdoor hydronic heater meets or exceeds the emissions standards set forth
in §
96.02(F).
(Ord. 2007-10-B, passed 8-7-07)
§ 96.05  GRANDFATHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All existing outdoor hydronic heaters in operation at the time of the
passage of this chapter are hereby grandfathered subject to the following
provisions contained herein. If such existing outdoor hydronic heater does not
meet the emissions standards set forth in §
96.02(F)  and is located within 300 feet of a non-served residence,  the
following requirements must be met:
      (1)   A chimney shall extend either 20 feet above the ground surface or
at least two feet above the peak of any residence located within 300 feet of
and not served by the outdoor hydronic heater, whichever is the greater.
      (2)   All chimney extensions or chimney add-ons to outdoor hydronic
heaters must have a spark arrestor.
      (3)   Existing outdoor hydronic heaters must meet the chimney
requirements within 90 days from the date of this chapter.
   (B)   All existing outdoor hydronic heaters must be registered with the
LaPorte County Health Department and/or the Building Inspector within 90 days
after the adoption of this chapter. Any such heater which is not registered
accordingly will be not be “grandfathered” and will be considered a nuisance 
subject to the fines and penalties of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   A permit fee will not be required for an existing outdoor hydronic
heater if registered within 90 days of the adoption of this chapter.
   (D)   If there is an existing outdoor hydronic heater already installed and
there is new construction of a residence not served by said heater within 300
feet of that heater, the owner of such outdoor hydronic heater shall conform to
the stack height requirements of §
96.05(A)(1) within 90 days after such home is complete, or upon written notice
from the Health Department if determined to be a public nuisance unless the
emissions standards of §
96.02(F) are met.
(Ord. 2007-10-B, passed 8-7-07)
§ 96.06  ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)    If through the course of a proper investigation by local authorities
an outdoor hydronic heater is creating a verifiable nuisance as defined by this
chapter or state law, the following steps may be taken by the owner and/or the
LaPorte County Health Department or any other department having jurisdiction:
      (1)   Modifications made to the unit to eliminate the nuisance, such as
extending the chimney or relocating the outdoor hydronic heater, or both; and/
or
      (2)   Issue a cease-and-desist order to the owner that such unit shall
not be operated until reasonable steps can be taken to ensure that the outdoor
hydronic heater will not be a nuisance.
   (B)   The LaPorte County Health Department and the Office of the Building
Inspector will mutually have joint responsibility regarding the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this chapter, including assurance that:
      (1)   Documentation is available to verify the date of installation of an
outdoor hydronic heater;
      (2)   Such heater complies with all applicable laws;
      (3)   Such heater does not create a public health nuisance as defined by
burning emissions requirements as adopted by this chapter;
      (4)   Such heater is installed in compliance with any other LaPorte
County Building Codes as the same may apply;
      (5)   Such heater is installed and operated in compliance with the
manufacturer's specifications; and
      (6)   Such heater uses only dry seasoned wood or other materials as
prescribed by the manufacturer. No other materials may be burned.
   (C)   The following fine schedule is adopted:
      (1)   Failure to obtain permit for new unit - $250 plus cost of permit.
      (2)   Failure to register existing unit - $150 plus cost of permit.
      (3)   Failure to add chimney extension -$500.
      (4)   Operation not in compliance with this chapter - $750.
      (5)   Failure to pay fine within 30 days of issue of citation will be
subject to a civil action under division (D) below.
   (D)   Compliance with this chapter may also be compelled and violations
restrained by order or by injunction of a court of competent jurisdiction. Any
person who violates any provision of this chapter shall also be subject to a
civil penalty of not more than $2,500 per day, per violation, as well as
attorney fees if a civil action is necessary to enforce the compliance or to
maintain an action regarding the payment of a nuisance because of noncompliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-10-B, passed 8-7-07)
CHAPTER 97:  CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS
Section
   
97.01   Intent and purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Development standards
   
97.04   Odor setbacks
   
97.05   Setback exceptions
   
97.06   Environmental protection
§ 97.01  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is hereby enacted for the following purposes:
   (A)   Establishing a procedure for the permitting of Concentrated Animal
Feeding Operations (CAFOs);
   (B)   Regulating the location, development and the expansion of CAFOs;
   (C)   Protecting CAFOs from residential, commercial and public land use
conflicts;
   (D)   Protecting agriculture's ability to grow and change;
   (E)   Protecting the land, water, and air resources of LaPorte County;
   (F)   Protecting the property values of LaPorte County's taxpayers; and
   (G)   Protecting human welfare, health, safety and well-being.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 9-4-07)
§ 97.02  DEFINITIONS.
   ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (AFO).  A lot or facility, other than an aquatic
animal production facility, where both of these conditions are met:
      (1)   Animals, other than aquatic animals, have been, are, or will be
stabled or confined and fed or maintained for a total of 45 days or more in any
12-month period; and
      (2)   Crops, vegetation, forage growth, or post-harvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over at least 50% of the lot or
facility. Reference 3271AC 5-4-3(1)(3)
   CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (CAFO). An AFO that stables or
confines as many as or more than the number of animals specified in any of the
following categories:
      (1)   700  mature dairy cows, whether milked or dry.
      (2)   1,000 veal calves.
      (3)   1,000 cattle other than mature dairy cows or veal calves. Cattle
include, but are not limited to, heifers, steers, bulls and cow/calf pairs.
      (4)   2,500 swine each weighing 55 pounds or more.
      (5)   10,000 swine each weighing less than 55 pounds.
      (6)   500 horses.
      (7)   10,000 sheep or lambs.
      (8)   55,000 turkeys.
      (9)   30,000 laying hens or broilers, if the AFO uses a liquid manure-
handling system.
      (10)   125,000 chickens, other than laying hens, if the AFO uses other
than a liquid manure-handling system.
      (11)   82,000 laying hens, if the AFO uses other than a liquid manure-
handling system.
      (12)   30,000 ducks, if the AFO uses other than a liquid manure-handling
system.
      (13)   5,000 ducks, if the AFO uses a liquid manure handling system.
Reference 327 MC 5-4-3(b)(4) & 5-4-3(b)(7)
   Two or more AFOs under common ownership are considered to be a single CAFO,
if the AFOs adjoin each other or use a common area for land application of
manure, litter, or process wastewater.
   NON-FARM RESIDENCE.  An occupied dwelling or house located in Agriculture
Zoned Property that is not controlled by the owner and/or operator of a CAFO.
   SHALL. The requirement is mandatory, rather than optional.
   WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.  Any method of managing manure at a site,
including:
      (1)   Manure storage structure;
      (2)   Manure transfer system;
      (3)   Manure treatment systems, such as a constructed wetland, vegetative
management system, or wastewater treatment system;
      (4)   Feedlot;
      (5)   Confinement building; and/or
      (6)   Waste liquid handling, storage, and treatment system.
Reference 327 1AC 16-2-44
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 9-4-07)
§ 97.03  DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Conformance requirements.  A  CAFO shall meet all applicable requirements of
the federal, state or local government. In addition, CAFO applicants shall meet
the following requirements:
   (A)   Obtain a pre-application permit from the LaPorte County Building
Commission prior to the submission of a permit application for approval from
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM).
      (1)   A pre-application permit shall be granted to the CAFO upon
submittal of the application to the Building Commission if the CAFO chapter
requirements are met.
      (2)   For purposes of this chapter, a CAFO is a PROPOSED CAFO when a pre-
application permit is submitted.
      (3)   For purposes of this chapter, a CAFO is an EXISTING CAFO when
approval and a permit from IDEM is issued.
   (B)   CAFO waste management system, compost facility, and mortality staging
shall not be within 220 feet of any county road centerline. Any other developed
portions of the facility shall abide by existing zoning setbacks for like
structures.
   (C)   The minimum lot size on which a CAFO shall be permitted is ten acres.
   (D)   CAFOs shall only be allowed on agriculturally zoned property.
   (E)   A CAFO waste management system, compost facility, and mortality
staging shall not be located within 100 feet of any side or rear property line
unless permission for a reduced setback is granted by the adjoining landowner.
   (F)   Adequate truck loading areas and access shall be provided. Ingress and
egress shall be designed to avoid creation of traffic hazards and congestion,
odor, dust, noise or drainage impacts.
   (G)   All CAFOs shall obtain a ROUTE PERMIT from the County Highway
Department.
   (H)   A copy of the Indiana Department of Environmental Management approval
shall be submitted to the Building Commission prior to receiving a building
permit.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 9-4-07)
§ 97.04  ODOR SETBACKS.
   (A)   Minimum setback for any CAFO waste management system from non-farm
residences shall be as follows:
      (1)   750 feet as long as the CAFO includes three odor controls prior to
the start-up of the operation;
      (2)   1,000 feet as long as the CAFO includes two odor controls prior to
the start-up of the operation;
      (3)   1,320 feet as long as the CAFO includes one odor control prior to
the start-up of the operation; and
      (4)   1,570 feet when the CAFO does not include any odor control prior to
the start-up of the operation. Operations that do not include odor controls
shall increase the minimum setback by 250 feet for each multiple greater than
one (rounded up to the nearest whole number), above the animal numbers required
to be a CAFO. For example, a dairy with 700 mature cows without odor controls
would require a 1,570 foot setback; a dairy with 1,500 mature cows without odor
controls would require a 1,830 foot setback; {'{'}[1,500-700]/700 - 1 0.14,
round up to 1, 1,570 feet + [1 x 250 feet]{'}'}.
      (5)   (a)   Odor controls include, but are not limited to, the controls
listed in Table 1 below.
         (b)   Proven odor controls are listed in Table 1 for reference.
         (c)   Other proven odor controls not listed in Table 1 may be used to
determine the required setback.
Table 1: Proven Odor Controls
Diet manipulation/ feed additives  Liquid/solid separation
Shelterbelts                       Anaerobic treatment lagoon
Vegetation screens                 Anaerobic digester
Windbreak walls                    Manure storage surface aeration
Biofilters                         Reduced anaerobic lagoon loading rate
Biomass filters                    Aerobic treatment
Air filters                        Ozonation
Aerodynamic deduster (air cleaner) Urine/feces segregation
Wet scrubber (ventilation air)     Permeable covers (such as geotextile)
Catalytic converter                Impermeable covers
Vegetable oil spray (dust control) Pit additives (such as biological, chemical)
 
   (B)   A new CAFO shall not locate the waste management system within a one-
mile buffer from the city limits of the cities of LaPorte, Michigan City, and
Westville.
   (C)   An active animal feeding operation (AFO) that expands such that it is
defined as a CAFO shall not locate a new waste management system within a one-
mile buffer from the city limits of LaPorte, Michigan City, and Westville or
any closer than the setback between an existing waste management system and the
city limits of LaPorte, Michigan City, and Westville (whichever is least
restrictive).
   (D)   A new CAFO shall not locate the waste management system within a
minimum of 1,570 feet or the prescribed setback from a non-farm residence
required by this chapter (whichever is greater) of an incorporated city or town
limits.
   (E)   An active animal feeding operation (AFO) that expands such that it is
defined as a CAFO shall not locate a new waste management system within a
minimum of 1,570 feet, the prescribed setback from a non-farm residence
required by this chapter, or any closer than the setback between an existing
waste management system and the city or town limits of a incorporated city or
town (whichever is least restrictive).
   (F)   If the setback between an existing CAFO and non-farm residence is less
than the setback prescribed in division (A) above, the existing CAFO may expand
at the same location provided the new or expanded waste management system does
not reduce the existing setback between the CAFO waste management system and
non-farm residence unless written permission is given by the owner of the non-
farm residence.
   (G)   An existing AFO proposing to expand such that after the expansion it
would be defined as a CAFO may expand at the same location provided the
following:
      (1)   If the setback between the existing AFO and non-farm residence is
less than the setback prescribed in division (A) above, the existing AFO may
expand at the same location provided the new or expanded waste management
system does not reduce the existing setback between the AFO waste management
system and non-farm residence, unless written permission is given by the owner
of the non-farm residence.
      (2)   If the setback between the existing AFO and non-farm residence is
greater than the setback prescribed in division (A) above, the existing AFO may
expand at the same location provided the new or expanded waste management
system location maintains the setback distances prescribed in division (A)
above, unless written permission is given by the owner of the non-farm
residence.
   (H)   A newly constructed non-farm residence shall not be located within the
required setback by division (A) of this section from an existing or proposed
CAFO waste management system for the number of animals at the existing or
proposed CAFO. The minimum setback shall be 1,570 feet.
   (I)   If a variance is granted by the BZA for a non-farm residence from the
setback standards of this chapter, the party obtaining the variance shall be
required to enter into the following covenant protecting the CAFO' s right to
operate:
   "In accepting this deed, grantees acknowledge that surrounding land is
agricultural in usage, and grantees, and their successors in interest, are
precluded from attempting to enjoin any farm operation within the prescribed
setback of [(required setback)] required by the LaPorte County Concentrated
Feeding Operation Chapter because of nuisances which might result from said
operation."
   (J)   If a variance is granted for a new subdivision development in an
agriculturally zoned property, there shall be a condition of receiving a
variance, the grantee must sign and agricultural clause that must be
accompanied by a deed restriction to successive owners:
   "Grantee/owners of said lot(s) and their successors in title are on notice
and understand that this residence/subdivision will be built in a predominantly
agricultural area and that farming operations, to include animal feeding
operations and other livestock operations, may be practiced in the area of this
residence/subdivision. With this understanding, grantee/all owners of the lot
(s) in this subdivision and their successors in title forego their right to
bring claim against any agricultural operation in the area who has not been
negligent."
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 9-4-07)
§ 97.05  SETBACK EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Grandfathered nonconforming uses. Any existing CAFO legally
established prior to September 4, 2007, shall be considered legal nonconforming
use.
   (B)   A non-farm residence may agree to a reduced setback between a new or
expanding CAFO and the non-farm residence. A written agreement between the non-
farm residence and CAFO must be filed with the Building Department prior to the
issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 9-4-07)
§ 97.06  ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION.
   (A)   The operator of a new, expanding, or existing CAFO shall comply with
all state laws and rules, including the laws and rules administered by IDEM and
with any permits granted by IDEM.
   (B)   All applicants who have or who have had ownership in any CAFO/AFO in
the State of Indiana or any other state during the five years prior to the date
of obtaining a pre-application permit must not have any unresolved violations
with the Indiana Department of Environmental Management or any other
corresponding or comparable local, state or federal regulatory agency. All such
outstanding violations must be resolved before a building permit will be issued
by the Building Commission.
   (C)   CAFOs shall abide by 312 IAC 12 Water Well Drilling and Ground Water 
and register all wells capable of withdrawing over 100,000 gallons per day or
70 gallons per minute with the Department of Natural Resources.
   (D)   A CAFO shall follow all manure application rules as defined in their
IDEM permit and in accordance with their manure management plan.
   (E)   A CAFO/AFO shall not locate any portion of the waste management system
within the 100-year frequency flood plain unless a Federal Emergency Management
Agency, National Flood Insurance Program Floodproofmg Certificate for
nonresidential structures is provided and the waste management system access is
at least two feet above the 100-year flood base elevation. Reference 327 IAC
16-81(a)(3).
   (F)   Groundwater test wells shall be required of all new approved 100-year
floodplain CAFO sites. Placement, number, and depth of these systems shall be
determined by a licensed engineer or hydrogeologist after the groundwater
directional flow is determined. Sampling and testing of these systems for
nitrates and bacteria shall be performed biannually by the La Porte County
Health Department.
   (G)   If the La Porte County Health Department determines that surface or
ground water has been or is being contaminated by the CAFO, the Health
Department may order any reasonable or necessary corrective action to protect
public health.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 9-4-07)
CHAPTER 98:  RAILROAD MOBILE CAMPS
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Application and permit fees
   
98.03   Permit requirements
   
98.04   Railroad employee and mobile camp sanitary requirements
   
98.05   Inspections
   
98.06   Violations
   
98.07   Permit suspension/closure
   
98.08   Request for a hearing
   
98.09   Enforcement interpretation
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The LaPorte County Board of Health.
   COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. Those diseases which epidemiological evidence
indicates can be transmitted through food preparation or service.
   DEPARTMENT. The duly appointed, qualified, and acting Health Officer of
LaPorte County, Indiana, or his or her authorized representatives.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury or illness based on the
number of potential injuries or illness and the nature, severity, and duration
of the anticipated injury, or illness.
   MOBILE CAMP. A temporary location where at least two railroad maintenance of
way employees are housed.
   PERMITTEE. The person who is the owner of or responsible for the operation
of a railroad mobile camp, which shall include his/her/its authorized
representatives, and who shall be responsible for the acceptance of all notice
at the address listed on the application for any permit issued hereunder.
   PERSON. Includes, but is not limited to, an individual, corporation, firm,
partnership, proprietorship, association, business organization, municipality
or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual, trust or estate,
or the agent or legal representative thereof.
   RETAIL FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any food establishment, including, but
not limited to, a restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short-order café,
luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, soda fountain, commissary, drive-in
restaurant, drink establishment, snack bar, food counter, dining room, food
catering facility, industrial feeding establishment, private, public, or non-
profit organization or institution routinely serving food, and any other eating
or drinking establishment, where food or drink products are prepared, served,
or provided for human consumption with or without charge. The term does not
include private homes where food is prepared or served for individual family
consumption.
   TEMPORARY FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any food establishment in any
enclosure, stall, or other facility, whether fixed or mobile, operating at one
site or location for a period of time not in excess of 14 consecutive days, in
conjunction with a single event or celebration, where food in open form
intended for human consumption off the premises is offered with or without
charge.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 7-6-10)
§ 98.02  APPLICATION AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   An application for a mobile camp permit shall be made to the Health
Department on forms provided by the Health Department no later than two days
upon arrival of the mobile camp and its employees in the county. The permittee
shall provide the following information: the legal name, address, and telephone
number of the permittee, the name under which the permittee intends to operate,
the address and general location of the mobile camp. Applications shall also
include the signature of the permittee or his/her/its authorized
representative.
   (B)   Upon application the permittee shall pay a fee to the LaPorte County
Health Department as follows:
      (1)   One to ten total cars in the mobile camp system: $400.
      (2)   Eleven or more total cars in the mobile camp system: $600.
   (C)   If upon application, the total number of cars submitted and paid for
is not correct as determined upon actual inspection and the actual total number
of cars is higher, a late fee of $200 will automatically be assessed in
addition to the difference between the fee paid and the fee owed based on the
actual number of cars, and payment will be required within 24 business hours.
If unpaid, the mobile camp will be immediately closed upon the expiration of
that 24-hour period.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 7-6-10)
§ 98.03  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permits. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mobile camp
in the county, who does not possess a valid permit for each such operation from
the Health Department, unless otherwise exempted from the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Posting. All permits shall be posted in a conspicuous place while in
operation in the county and must be kept at the mobile camp itself.
   (C)   Separate permit. A separate permit shall be required for each mobile
camp and for each time a mobile camp arrives in the county.
   (D)   Permit issuance. A permit shall be issued subsequent to application
and inspection and upon a determination by the Health Department that the
permittee has complied with all of the applicable provisions of this chapter
and tendered the appropriate fee as hereinafter specified.
   (E)   Terms.
      (1)   The term of a permit for a mobile camp shall be the number of
consecutive days the mobile camp is located in the county and shall expire/
become void once the mobile camp leaves the county. A new permit must be
obtained upon each arrival into the county.
      (2)   As stated, permits shall be obtained no later than two days upon
the mobile camp and its employees’ arrival in the county. If the application
for such mobile camp is not submitted within the required two-day arrival
period, a late fee of $100 (per each day of violation) will also be added to
the overall permit fee.
   (F)   Permit not transferable. No permit issued to any permittee under this
chapter shall be transferable between locations within the county, between
operators, or between mobile camp visits in the county. Upon change of location
or leaving the county after the initial inspection for which the permit was
granted or upon change of operation or owner, all existing permits become void.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 7-6-10)
§ 98.04  RAILROAD EMPLOYEE AND MOBILE CAMP SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All mobile camps which are hereinafter utilized to house railroad
maintenance of way employees shall conform in their construction and overall
operation to the applicable requirements of I.C. 16-19-3 and 410 IAC 6-14, as
amended, as well as with this chapter. The Health Board hereby incorporates by
reference all rules and regulations established by the Indiana State Department
of Health regarding the operation of mobile camps as set forth in the Indiana
Administrative Code and all such establishments shall abide by the rules and
regulations as they now exist and as are amended.
   (B)   The Health Department may prohibit the further housing of railroad
maintenance of way employees in any mobile camp in the county that fails to
meet the requirements of I.C. 16-19-3 and 410 IAC 6-14, as amended.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 7-6-10)
§ 98.05  INSPECTIONS.
   The LaPorte County Health Department will inspect mobile camps within two
business days upon permit application of the mobile camp operator and as often
thereafter as necessary to ensure compliance with all applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 7-6-10)
§ 98.06  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If, during the inspection of any mobile camp, the Health Department
discovers the violation of any provision of this chapter or of 410 IAC 6-14 (or
as amended hereafter), the Health Department shall issue a written report
listing such violations and the remedial action(s) to be taken. A copy of the
report shall be delivered to the permittee by hand delivering the report to
him/her/it on-site, or mailing the notice by certified mail to the address
listed by the permittee as his/her/its mailing address on the permit
application.
   (B)   A copy of the written order shall be filed in the records of the
Health Department after appropriate review by supervisory personnel.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 7-6-10)
§ 98.07  PERMIT SUSPENSION/CLOSURE.
   (A)   The Health Officer may order the suspension of any permit issued for a
mobile camp which order shall include the prohibition of any further
residential occupancy or preparing/serving of food or beverage for the
following reasons:
      (1)   Interference with the Health Officer, or his/her authorized
representatives, in the performance of his/her duties. Interference shall
include the process of obstructing, hampering, or blocking the Health
Department in the performance of its duties.
      (2)   As a result of the willful and/or continuous violation of any
provision of this chapter or applicable Indiana Administrative Code.
   (B)   Whenever the Health Department determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
chapter, the Health Department shall give notice of such alleged violation to
the person or persons responsible therefor, and to any known agent of such
person, as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in written form.
      (2)   Include a statement of reasons why it is being issued.
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires.
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his/her/its agent, or the occupant, as
the case may require, provided that such notice shall be deemed to be properly
served upon such owner or agent, or upon him/her/it personally, or if a copy
thereof is sent by certified mail to his/her/its last known address or if a
copy thereof is posted in a conspicuous place in or about the facility affected
by notice, or if he/she/it is served with such notice by any other method
authorized or required under the laws of this state.
      (5)   Such notice must contain an outline of remedial action, which, if
taken, will affect compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 7-6-10)
§ 98.08  REQUEST FOR A HEARING.
   Any person affected by any such notice of closure issued by the Health
Department may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Health Officer or designated hearing officer, provided that such person shall
file, in the office of the latter within ten days after service of the notice,
a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a statement of the
grounds thereof. Upon receipt of such petition, the Health Department shall
arrange a time and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written
notice thereof. Such hearing shall be heard as soon as practical after the
receipt of request thereof. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and to show cause why compliance with this chapter
should not be required.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 7-6-10)
§ 98.09  ENFORCEMENT INTERPRETATION.
   The Health Department may initiate any procedures, as the Health Officer
deems necessary for proper enforcement and to carry out the purpose and intent
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 7-6-10)
§ 98.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this chapter may be served by the Health Department with a written order
stating the nature of the violation and providing a time limit for satisfactory
correction thereof. Any person, firm, or corporation found in violation of that
order shall be subject to the penalties set forth in division (B) of this
section.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this chapter shall be subject to penalty as hereinafter prescribed in this
section. On being found to have violated the provisions of this chapter, the
violator may be subjected to a fine of $500 for the first offense; a fine of up
to but not more than $1,000 for the second repeat offense; a fine of up to not
more than $1,500 for the third and each subsequent repeat offense, as may be
determined and fixed by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may become
liable to the LaPorte County Health Department for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned by reason of such violation, including reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 7-6-10)
CHAPTER 99:  SALE OF SUBSTANCES CONTAINING SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
99.01   Chapter established
   
99.02   Enforcement
 
   
99.99   Violations and penalties
§ 99.01  CHAPTER ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids ("products"), such as K1/
Spice, or similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds:
      (1)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6- dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-l-ol, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative,
   shall not be sold, marketed or offered for sale within the county; and
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids ("Products") may not be
burned, incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased or controlled by the county.
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 10-19-10)  Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.02  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be by the County Sheriff’s Police;
and
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the County Prosecuting Attorney, to whom the
County Sheriff’s Police shall report any violation of the provision of this
chapter, to cause proceedings to commence against the person or business
violating the provisions of this chapter in accordance with I.C. 34-28-5 et
seq.
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 10-19-10)
§ 99.99  VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B Infraction, as set forth in I.C. §
34-28-5-4.
   (B)   In addition to the proceedings provided for in §
99.02, LaPorte County, by and through the County Prosecutor's office and/or its
county attorney(s), is authorized to bring a civil action pursuant to I.C. §
36-1-6-4 to enjoin any person or business from violating this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-07, passed 10-19-10)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT REGULATIONS
   
111.   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING REGULATIONS
   
112.   PRECIOUS METAL, VALUABLE METAL, SCRAP METAL, PAWN, AND SECOND-HAND
RETAILER REGULATIONS
   
113.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110:  FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Title
   
110.02   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   Exemptions
   
110.05   Construction
Licensing; Certification
   
110.15   License required
   
110.16   Issuance of license
   
110.17   License fees and penalties
   
110.18   License suspension or revocation
   
110.19   Sanitation certification
Inspections
   
110.30   Frequency
   
110.31   Report
   
110.32   Correction of violations
Administration and Enforcement
   
110.45   Examination and condemnation of food
   
110.46   Access; right of entry
   
110.47   Hearings
   
110.48   Fines and enforcement
   
110.49   Service of notice
   
110.50   Health Officer; authority
Cross-reference:
   Food service establishment license fees, see §
37.35
   Health Department, see §
32.001
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  TITLE.
   This chapter may be referred to as the “County Food Service Code.”
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
§ 110.02  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The regulations of the state Department of Health located at 410 I.A.C. 7-20
et seq., entitled Retail Food Establishment Sanitation Requirements, and 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5 et seq., entitled Bed and Breakfast Establishments, as amended
from time to time, and as promulgated by the state Department of Health, are
hereby incorporated and adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
§ 110.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSARY.  A licensed facility used to receive, store, and prepare food
items that will be sold at another location.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any person hired, whether full time or part time, manager,
supervisor, family member, or volunteer, that works in the retail food
establishment.
   EXTENSIVE REMODELING.  Any alteration of a food service operation that
results in the addition of equipment or potentially hazardous foods within any
establishment’s operation.
   FOOD SERVICE LICENSE.  Authorization to operate a retail food establishment.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The county Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The county Health Officer and his or her duly authorized
representative.
   LUNCH SERVICE VEHICLE.  A vehicle from which ready-to-eat food and drinks
are dispensed that have been prepared and sealed or packaged in a licensed
establishment.
   MOBILE.  A retail food establishment that is not on a permanent foundation
and is readily movable.
   PREPACKAGED.  Intended for sale or resale in the original container with no
preparation.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.  Any restaurant, food market, deli, bakery, food
stand, pushcart, commissary, or other location, fixed or mobile, permanent or
temporary, that prepares, stores, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise
provides food for human consumption.
   SEASONAL.  Operating less than 180 days in a calendar year.
   TEMPORARY.  As defined by the state Retail Food Establishment Sanitation
Requirements under 410 I.A.C. 7-20, and meeting all of the guidelines for
temporary establishments set forth by the county.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
§ 110.04  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   An organization that is exempt from the state gross income tax under
I.C. 6-2.1-3-20 through 6-2.1-3-22 shall be exempt from the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall be provided, upon request, proof of an
organization’s tax exemption.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
§ 110.05  CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   To the extent that any provision of this chapter is ultimately
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be pre-empted by any state
or federal law, this chapter shall automatically be deemed amended by
eliminating the pre-empted provision and incorporating in its place the
applicable provision of the pre-empting state or federal law.
   (B)   Compliance with the requirements of this chapter does not obviate or
eliminate the necessity of complying with any other applicable federal, state,
or local laws and regulations affecting retail food establishments.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
LICENSING; CERTIFICATION
§ 110.15  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a retail food establishment in the
county without a valid food service license issued by the county Health
Officer.
      (2)   This permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or on the
retail food establishment. 
   (B)   Only persons who fully comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter shall be entitled to receive a food service license. 
   (C)   (1)   The food service license shall be for a term of one year
beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year and shall be
renewed annually. 
      (2)   A temporary food service license shall be issued for the term of a
single, continuous event, not to exceed 14 days. 
   (D)   Any food service license issued by the Health Officer shall contain
the name and address of the person to whom the license is granted, the address
of the premises for which the license is issued, and other pertinent
information as may be required by the Health Officer.
   (E)   (1)   A separate license shall be required for each retail food
establishment operated or to be operated by any person. 
      (2)   A license issued under this chapter is not transferable with
respect to the licensee or the location. 
      (3)   A license shall be issued to any person upon application only after
inspection and approval of the retail food establishment by the Health Officer,
provided the establishment complies with all applicable provisions of this
chapter. 
   (F)   No license or renewal shall be denied or revoked on arbitrary or
capricious grounds.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.16  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a retail food
establishment who does not possess a valid food service license for the
operation of that establishment.
   (B)   The food service license shall be renewed annually and shall be valid
for one year beginning January 1 of that year.  The application shall include
the name and address of the applicant, the location and type of retail food
establishment, the signature of the applicant, and any other information deemed
necessary by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Before issuing a license to operate a retail food establishment, the
Health Officer shall inspect the proposed establishment to determine compliance
with all applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   All new operators, new construction, or extensive remodels,
after approval of all plans, at the time of opening inspection shall be placed
on probationary status for a minimum of 30 days and shall be required to pay a
probationary fee as listed in § 37.35. 
      (2)   After the 30-day period has ended, the Health Officer shall conduct
an inspection, and based on satisfactory results, the establishment shall be
removed from probation and, upon receiving payment for the food service
license, the food service license shall be issued.
   (E)   A separate license shall be required for each retail food
establishment operated or to be operated by any person.
   (F)   A temporary food service license shall be granted for no longer than
14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event. 
      (1)   Each temporary food service establishment must be able to meet
basic minimum sanitation requirements to safely prepare and serve food. 
      (2)   Inspection is done each 24 hours or as deemed necessary by the
Health Officer. 
      (3)   Any person operating a temporary retail food establishment shall
comply with all temporary retail food establishment guidelines developed by the
Health Department and approved by the county Board of Health.
   (G)   A new operator or owner of an existing retail food establishment that
has transferred ownership shall come into full compliance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter prior to a food service license being issued.
   (H)   Prior to the initial construction of a new retail food establishment
or the major remodeling of an existing establishment, a complete set of
construction plans, intended menu, proposed equipment, and anticipated customer
base, or that which is required by the state Department of Health by 410 I.A.C.
7-20-431, shall be submitted to the Health Department for approval prior to the
commencement of any remodeling or construction.
   (I)   (1)   A mobile retail food service license shall be granted to a self-
contained, free-standing unit with facilities adequate to safely prepare and
serve food on an unlimited basis throughout the county.  Inspection is
conducted according to seasonal operation.  A sanitation certification may be
required based on the items prepared and sold. 
      (2)   Any person operating a mobile retail food service establishment
shall comply with all mobile retail food service establishment guidelines
developed by the Health Department and approved by the county Board of Health.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.17  LICENSE FEES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   A food service license fee shall be charged prior to the issuance of a
license to operate a retail food establishment.  All license fees shall be
charged in accordance with the Health Department schedule of fees as given in §
37.35, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Penalties charged as a result of failure to comply with applicable
provisions of this chapter, and as listed in § 37.35, shall be levied and
collected.
   (C)   Temporary retail food establishments shall not be charged a fee for
failure to comply with applicable provisions of this chapter.  Temporary retail
food establishments that fail to fully comply with these requirements shall not
be issued a food service license, and shall likewise be ordered to cease
operations.
   (D)   Any person operating a retail food establishment without a license,
except for new ownership of an existing business that has been previously
licensed by the county Health Officer, without interruption of service, shall
be assessed a fine in accordance with enforcement provisions specified in this
chapter.  The Health Officer may require an existing establishment to
temporarily close until all applicable requirements have been met.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.18  LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Health Officer may, upon inspection and/or written notice, suspend
any license to operate a retail food service establishment for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   The operation, in the opinion of the Health Officer, constitutes an
imminent health hazard, such as may be created by loss of power supply, sewage
back-up, loss of water supply, fire, flood, tornado, or other cause.  Under
this section, an establishment license may be immediately suspended prior to a
Health Officer hearing, and the establishment ordered closed;
      (2)   Upon the outcome of a hearing, the Health Officer determines that
continued operation of the retail food service establishment constitutes a risk
to the public health;
      (3)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his or
her duties;
      (4)   Failure to correct a critical violation in the time period
specified by the Health Officer, so that continued presence of the violation
constitutes an imminent danger to the public health; or
      (5)   The retail food establishment has been placed on probationary
status more than once in a calendar year.
   (B)   Suspension of a license shall be for a period not to exceed 30 days. 
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a food service license is suspended, the holder of the
license, or the person in charge, shall be notified in writing that the license
to operate the retail food service establishment is, upon the serving of the
notice, immediately suspended. 
      (2)   The owner or operator shall be entitled, upon written request, to a
hearing to contest a suspension within ten days of a suspension order.  If a
written request to hold a hearing is not received, the suspension shall remain
in effect. 
      (3)   Failure of a retail food establishment to take all appropriate
corrective action as identified by the Health Officer shall result either in a
continuation of the suspension or a license revocation.
   (D)   The Health Officer may, after providing opportunity for hearing,
revoke a food service license for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Repeated occurrences of critical violations of this chapter found
in consecutive inspections;
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his or
her duties;
      (3)   As a result of a license suspension; or
      (4)   Failure to correct an imminent danger to the public health.
   (E)   (1)   Prior to license revocation, the Health Officer shall notify the
license holder or the person in charge, in writing, of the reasons for which
the license is subject to revocation. 
      (2)   The license to operate the retail food service establishment shall
be revoked at the end of ten days following service of the notice unless a
written request is filed with the Health Officer within the ten-day period. 
      (3)   If no request for a hearing is filed within the ten-day period, the
revocation of the food service license shall be final.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
§ 110.19  SANITATION CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   All retail food establishments, excluding temporary establishments,
which prepare or serve potentially hazardous foods, shall have at least one
sanitation certified manager or employee on premises during hours of food
preparation and service, and shall comply with the minimum requirements
specified by the state Department of Health as provided in 410 I.A.C. 7-20-87,
as the same may be hereafter changed or amended.  This regulation and any
changes and amendments thereto which may be hereafter adopted or promulgated,
are by reference incorporated herein and made part thereof.
   (B)   Retail food establishments selling only prepackaged goods and non-
potentially hazardous foods, and temporary retail food establishments, are
exempt from the provisions of division (A) above.
   (C)   A certified manager or employee is any person who has successfully
completed one or more of the following courses or their equivalent, and has
provided a copy of the certificate of completion from that course to the
county:
      (1)   SERVSAFE course through the National Restaurant Association (NRA);
      (2)   Applied Food Service Sanitation course through the NRA; or
      (3)   Any course of study approved by the county Health Department.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
INSPECTIONS
§ 110.30  FREQUENCY.
   (A)   Retail food establishments shall be inspected according to the
following risk-based schedule:
      (1)   Risk Category A.  Prepackaged potentially hazardous foods only. 
Limited preparation of non-potentially hazardous foods.  One inspection per
year.
      (2)   Risk Category B.  Limited menu.  Prepackaged raw ingredients are
cooked or prepared to order.  Raw ingredients require minimal assembly.  Most
products are cooked or prepared immediately.  Hot and cold holding of
potentially hazardous foods is restricted to single meal service.  Preparation
processes requiring cooking, cooling, and reheating are limited to two
potentially hazardous foods.  Two inspections per year.
      (3)   Risk Category C.  Extensive handling of raw ingredients. 
Preparation processes include the cooking, cooling, and reheating of
potentially hazardous foods.  A variety of processes require hot and cold
holding of potentially hazardous food.  Advance preparation for next-day
service is limited to two items.  Retail food operations include deli and
seafood departments.  Establishments doing food processing at retail.  Three
inspections per year.
      (4)   Risk Category D.  Extensive handling of raw ingredients. 
Preparation processes include cooking, cooling, and reheating of potentially
hazardous foods.  A variety of processes require hot and cold holding of
potentially hazardous foods.  Food processes include advance preparation for
next-day service.  Four inspections per year.
   (B)   Temporary retail food establishments preparing or serving potentially
hazardous foods shall be inspected once per day for each day of an event.
   (C)   Any retail food establishment that, over the course of four
consecutive inspections, has no critical violations, and an amount of repeated
noncritical violations as is determined by the Health Officer not considered to
be excessive, on successive inspections, may petition the Health Officer for a
reassignment of risk category.
   (D)   The Health Officer may reassign the risk category of an establishment
for more frequent inspection if that establishment’s compliance history
demonstrates a history of poor sanitation.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
§ 110.31  REPORT.
   Whenever an inspection of a retail food establishment is conducted, the
findings shall be recorded on an inspection report form approved by the Health
Officer and the state Department of Health.  The inspection report form shall
summarize findings on the basis of critical and non-critical violations, as
approved by the state Department of Health.  Each occurrence of a violation
will be recorded as a separate infraction, and the total number of critical and
non-critical violations will be indicated on the inspection report.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
§ 110.32  CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The completed inspection report shall specify a reasonable period of
time for the correction of violations. 
   (B)   Correction of all violations shall be accomplished within the period
specified, in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   If an imminent health hazard is determined by the Health Officer to
exist, such as, but not limited to, an extended loss of water supply, an
extended power outage, fire, sewage back-up into the establishment, pest
infestation, or natural disaster, the retail food establishment shall
immediately cease operations.  Operations shall not be resumed until authorized
by the Health Officer.
      (2)   All critical violations shall be corrected in the time specified by
the Health Officer, but in any event shall not exceed two days following
inspection.  If an establishment is unable to correct a critical violation
within the specified time period, or repeats a critical violation during
consecutive inspections, the Health Officer may require the license holder to
attend a Health Officer hearing for the consideration of a permit suspension or
revocation.
      (3)   All non-critical violations shall be corrected in the time period
specified by the Health Officer.  Repeat non-critical violations on three or
more consecutive inspections may result in a Health Officer hearing for
consideration of the establishment being placed on probation, or a permit
suspension.
      (4)   The occurrence of a critical violation that cannot be immediately
corrected and is interpreted by the Health Officer to constitute a threat to
public health, may result in the establishment being placed on immediate
probationary status until the violation can be corrected and prevented from
reoccurring, or until no longer deemed necessary by the Health Officer.
      (5)   (a)   The Health Officer may inspect an establishment on
probationary status at least once every five working days, or as often as
necessary.
         (b)   During the probationary status, an occurrence of a critical
violation shall result in a Health Officer hearing for the consideration of
license suspension.  An establishment shall have no critical violations on
three consecutive probationary inspections in order to be removed from
probationary status.
      (6)   A temporary retail food establishment shall correct all critical
violations immediately.  If the establishment is unable to correct the
violation immediately, operations shall cease until the correction is made.
      (7)   Any retail food establishment that does not meet the sanitation
certification requirement, and if deemed necessary by the Health Officer, may
be placed on probationary status.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 110.45  EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or distribute through a
retail food establishment any food which is unwholesome, adulterated,
misbranded, obtained from an unapproved source, or which is otherwise
prohibited as provided in the state Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, I.C. 16-20-8-
1 et seq.
   (B)   Food may be examined or sampled by the Health Officer for the purpose
of determining compliance with this chapter. 
   (C)   The Health Officer may prohibit the sale or distribution of any food
which he or she may believe is in violation of any section of this chapter and
which may pose a health hazard to the public, provided:
      (1)   A written notice is issued to the holder of the food service
license or the person in charge; and
      (2)   The notice specifies in detail the reasons for the order.
   (D)   The Health Officer shall tag, label, or otherwise identify any food
subject to the above order.  No food subject to this order shall be used, sold,
moved from the establishment, or be destroyed without permission from the
Health Officer.
   (E)   The written notice of order shall state that a written request for
hearing may be filed with the Health Officer within ten days.  Based on
evidence presented at the hearing, the order may be vacated or the holder of
the food service license directed by written order to denature or destroy the
food.  If the food is to be denatured or destroyed, this action shall be taken
under supervision of the Health Officer.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.46  ACCESS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Health Officer, upon proper identification, shall be permitted to
enter any retail food establishment at any reasonable time and shall be
permitted access to all parts of the establishment for the purpose of making
inspection to determine compliance with this chapter and 410 I.A.C. 7-20-35 of
the Retail Food Establishment Sanitation Requirements as established by the
state Department of Health. 
   (B)   The Health Officer shall be permitted to examine records maintained by
the retail food establishment relevant to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
§ 110.47  HEARINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The Health Officer shall conduct the hearings provided for in
this chapter at a time and place designated by the Health Officer. 
      (2)   The Health Officer shall make a final finding based upon the
complete hearing record and shall sustain, modify, or rescind any notice or
order considered in the hearing. 
      (3)   The Health Officer shall furnish a written report of the hearing to
the holder of the food service license within ten days of the hearing. 
      (4)   The licensee shall immediately comply with an order or decision of
the Health Officer.
   (B)   In the event that the holder of the food service license or his or her
authorized representative fails to attend the hearing, he or she shall be
deemed to have accepted the decision of the Health Officer.
   (C)   In the event that the holder of the food service license fails to
abide by the hearing decision or written order of the Health Officer, the
Health Officer may furnish written evidence of the violation to the County
Prosecutor or the Health Board attorney for appropriate action against the
license holder for violations of provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.48  FINES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If any person violates any provision of this chapter, that person
shall be deemed to have committed a chapter violation and, upon conviction, may
be fined.
   (B)   In addition to other specific enforcement mechanisms contained within
this chapter, the Health Officer may furnish written evidence of any violation
of this chapter to the County Prosecutor or the Health Board attorney for
appropriate action against the license holder, including prosecution and
enforcement action, for violation of provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.49  SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   A notice provided for in this chapter is properly served when it is
delivered to the holder of the food service license or the person in charge, or
when it is sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last known address of the holder of the food service license.  A copy of
the notice shall be filed in the records of the Health Department.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
§ 110.50  HEALTH OFFICER; AUTHORITY.
   It is hereby acknowledged, understood, and declared by the County Board of
Commissioners, that under this chapter the Health Officer is required to
exercise and is vested with the authority to exercise his or her discretion and
judgment in order to protect and preserve the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the county in regulating retail food
establishments.  The authority of the Health Officer to issue, deny, suspend,
or revoke any license, approval, order, or similar authorization under this
chapter is hereby declared to be discretionary.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 8-8-00)
CHAPTER 111:  TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING REGULATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permit requirements
   
111.03   Application for tattoo and body piercing facility or mobile facility
   
111.04   Application for practitioners, temporary practitioners, and apprentice
permits
   
111.05   Inspections
   
111.06   Permit requirements for facilities and practitioners
   
111.07   Work environment requirements for facilities and practitioners
   
111.08   Operational requirements for facilities and practitioners
   
111.09   Report of violations
   
111.10   Permit suspension or closure
   
111.11   Request for a hearing
   
111.12   Enforcement interpretation
 
   
111.99   Penalties
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT.  Any person or entity applying for a permit under this chapter,
whether for a new, temporary, or renewal permit.
   APPRENTICE.  A person learning the trade of tattooing or body piercing.
   BLOOD.  Human blood.
   BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS.  Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These pathogenic microorganisms include,
but are not limited to:
      (1)   Hepatitis B virus (HBV);
      (2)   Hepatitis C virus (HCV);  and
      (3)   Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
   BOARD OF HEALTH.  The LaPorte County Board of Health.
   BODY PIERCER.  Any person who performs body piercing on an individual.
   BODY PIERCING.  The perforation of any human body part for the purpose of
inserting jewelry or other decoration or for some other non-medical purpose.
   BUSINESS OPERATOR.  Any person in control of or having responsibility for
the operation of a facility subject to this chapter.
   CLEANED.  Removal of all visible dust, soil, or any other foreign or
unsanitary material.
   CLIENT.  Any individual receiving services regulated by this chapter.
   CONTAMINATED.  The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
other potentially infectious materials (OPIM) on an item or surface.
   DECONTAMINATED.  The use of physical or chemical means to remove,
inactivate, or destroy bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item which does
not require sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of
transmitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for
handling, use, or disposal.
   FACILITY.  Any room or space where tattooing or body piercing, or both, is/
are provided or where the business of tattooing or body piercing, or both, is/
are conducted.
   HBV.  The hepatitis B virus.
   HCV.  The hepatitis C virus.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  The County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The County Health Officer or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   HIGH-LEVEL DISINFECTION.  A process that destroys all microorganisms with
the exception of high numbers of bacterial spores.
   HIV.  The human immunodeficiency virus.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD.  Any circumstance or situation which in the opinion
of the Health Officer presents a serious health risk to the public.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE.  The waste that epidemiological evidence indicates is
capable of transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps.
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biologicals,
and infectious agent stock.
      (3)   Pathological waste.
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form.
      (5)   Carcasses, body parts, blood and body fluids in liquid and semi-
liquid form, and bedding of laboratory animals.
      (6)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   INTERMEDIATE LEVEL DISINFECTION.  A process that inactivates:
      (1)   Mycobacterium tuberculosis;
      (2)   Vegetative bacteria;
      (3)   Most viruses; and/or
      (4)   Most fungi;
   but does not necessarily kill bacterial spores.
   INSPECTION.  A complete review of the premises and records of a tattoo and
body piercing establishment as well as any other portion of the establishment
deemed necessary by the Health Officer or Health Department.
   MOBILE FACILITY.  Any facility capable of being moved from location to
location to perform tattooing or body piercing.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIAL or OPIM.  Includes the following:
      (1)   Human body fluids are as follows:
         (a)   Semen.
         (b)   Vaginal secretions.
         (c)   Cerebrospinal fluid.
         (d)   Synovial fluid.
         (e)   Pleural fluid.
         (f)   Pericardial fluid.
         (g)   Peritoneal fluid.
         (h)   Amniotic fluid.
         (i)   Saliva in dental procedures.
         (j)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood.
         (k)   All body fluids where it is difficult or impossible to
differentiate between body fluids.
      (2)   Any fixed tissue or organ, other than intact skin, from a human
whether living or dead.
      (3)   HIV-containing cell or tissue cultures, and HIV or HBV-containing
culture medium or other solutions, and blood, organs, or other tissues from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
   PARENTERAL.  Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needle sticks, human bites, cuts, or abrasions.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT or PPE.  Specialized clothing or equipment
worn for protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   PRACTITIONER.  Any person who performs body piercing or tattooing on the
human body.
   SECURE AREA.  An area that is designated and maintained to prevent the entry
of unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS.  Blood and blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   SHARPS.  Any object that can penetrate the skin.
   STERILIZE.  The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endospores.
   STORE.  The containment of infectious waste in such a manner as not to
constitute collection, treatment, transport, or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol, or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other instruments upon or under the skin; or
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure, or symbol done by scarring upon
or under the skin.
   TATTOO ARTIST.  Any person who provides a tattoo to an individual.
   TEMPORARY PRACTITIONER.  Any person who obtains a permit that will expire 31
days after the date of issuance.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS.  An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, HCV, and other bloodborne pathogens.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)
§ 111.02  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person or entity who wishes to perform any of the services regulated by
this chapter must provide proof that the applicant is competent to perform such
services without causing harm or disease to the applicant's clients.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)
§ 111.03  APPLICATION FOR TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING FACILITY OR MOBILE FACILITY.
   A permit application under this chapter shall include:
   (A)   The legal name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number of the business under which
the applicant intends to operate, if any.
   (C)   Proof that the applicant is and will continue to be in compliance with
all Indiana Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines.
   (D)   The applicant's business or employment history for the three years
immediately preceding the date of application, including, but not limited to,
whether such applicant previously operated under a permit or license in another
city/state and whether the applicant has had any license suspended or revoked.
   (E)   Documentation evidencing that the location of the applicant's business
is properly zoned for applicant's business by the governmental agency in which
the business is or will be located.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)
§ 111.04  APPLICATION FOR PRACTITIONERS, TEMPORARY PRACTITIONERS, AND
APPRENTICE PERMITS.
   A permit application under this section shall include:
   (A)   The legal name of the applicant.
   (B)   The current address of the applicant.
   (C)   A copy of the applicant's driver's license or other government issued
I.D. if the applicant does not have a driver's license.
   (D)   Proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   Evidence that the applicant has obtained at least a high school
diploma or GED.
   (F)   Documentation of all training relevant to the type of work regulated
by this chapter.
   (G)   Documentation of all professional certification, associations, or
memberships relevant to any service regulated by this chapter.
   (H)   A listing of all work experience including dates, addresses, telephone
numbers, and supervisors’ names.
   (I)   A statement from a licensed medical physician dated within 30 days
preceding the date of application stating that the applicant is free of any
communicable disease.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)
§ 111.05  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Health Department to inspect tattoo and
body piercing facilities at least annually to determine compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Inspections are to made at reasonable times with due regard to the
nature of the business to be inspected.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11) 
§ 111.06  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FACILITIES AND PRACTITIONERS.
   (A)   Permit.  It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a tattoo and/
or body piercing facility in the county without a valid permit from the Health
Officer.
Only persons who have complied with the applicable provisions of this chapter
shall be entitled to receive and retain such a permit. The permit shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises of the permitted facility.
Facility and practitioner permits shall be valid for a term of one year and
shall be renewed on or prior to the last day of February each year.
   (A)   Permit fees.  All facilities and practitioners shall pay permit and
inspection fees as established by the County Board of Commissioners. Applicable
fees shall be paid to the County Health Department at the time of application.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all permit fees shall be payable
on or before the last day of February each year. Any establishment that fails
to remit payment for an annual permit by the due date shall be assessed a
penalty of 50% of the permit fee for each day the required payment is not
received.
   (C)   Mobile facilities.  The permit holder must notify the County Health
Department 72 hours in advance of an event.
   (D)   Temporary practitioner permit.  The permit shall expire 31 days after
the date of issuance.
   (E)   Apprentice permit.
      (1)   An apprentice must be at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   An apprentice must practice under the authority of a County Health
Department permit holder who serves as the apprentice's mentor and who also has
a valid County Health Department Body Piercing and Tattoo permit.
      (3)   An apprentice's permit application must include the mentor's name,
signature, and a copy of the mentor's permit.
      (4)   The apprentice shall only practice in the presence of the
apprentice's mentor.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)
§ 111.07  WORK ENVIRONMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR FACILITIES AND PRACTITIONERS.
   (A)   Hand-washing.
      (1)   Hand-washing facilities shall be readily accessible where tattooing
and/or body piercing is or are provided.
      (2)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately
before putting on gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal
protective equipment.
      (3)   Only single-use towels shall be used.
   (B)   Work environment.
      (1)   No tattooing or body piercing shall be conducted in any room used
as living quarters or in any room that opens into living quarters.
      (2)   Live animals shall not be permitted in areas where tattooing or
body piercing is being conducted. However, this exclusion does not apply to the
following:
         (a)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police dogs.
         (b)   Guide dogs accompanying the following:
            1.   Blind persons;
            2.   Partially blind persons;
            3.   Physically disabled persons;
            4.   Guide dog trainers; or
            5.   Persons with impaired hearing.
      (3)   Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics, or handling contact
lenses shall not be allowed in work areas where there is a likelihood of
exposure to blood or OPIM.
      (4)   No food or drink shall be kept in areas where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
      (5)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
disinfected after contact with blood or OPIM.
      (6)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization
but have been contaminated by blood shall be cleaned and disinfected.
      (7)   All work surfaces shall be:
         (a)   Nonabsorbent;
         (b)   Easily cleanable; and
         (c)   Smooth and free of:
            1.   Breaks;
            2.   Open seams;
            3.   Cracks;
            4.   Chips;
            5.   Pits and similar imperfections.
      (8)   Disinfectant solution shall be a hospital grade, 0.5%
concentration, by volume (a common household bleach is 10% concentration in
water). The solution shall be dated and not be used if it is more than 24 hours
old.
   (C)   Reusable equipment.
      (1)   Heating procedures capable of sterilization must be used when heat
stable, non- disposable equipment is sterilized.
      (2)   Equipment that is to be sterilized shall be put in single-use
packaging.
      (3)   Records must be maintained to document the following:
         (a)   Duration of sterilization technique.
         (b)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a
biological indicator, is performed monthly.
         (c)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by any owner's manual and
proof is available that any such owner's manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
         (d)   Reusable, contaminated equipment shall not be stored or
processed in a manner that requires any person to reach by hand into the
container where sharp items have or may have been placed.
         (e)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be:
            1.   Placed in puncture-resistant containers;
            2.   Labeled with the biohazard symbol;
            3.   Leak-proof on both sides and bottoms; and
            4.   Stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into
the container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to
sterilization or disinfection.
         (f)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be effectively cleaned
prior to sterilization or disinfection.
         (g)   Any reusable contaminated equipment that comes into direct
contact or is likely to come into direct contact with an instrument that
penetrates the skin other than a piercing gun shall be effectively cleaned and
sterilized prior to use.
         (h)   All sterilized equipment shall not be removed from wrappers or
sterilized packaging until immediately prior to use.
         (i)   Any reusable equipment that comes into contact with mucous
membranes shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized prior to use.
         (j)   Piercing guns shall be cleaned and undergo, at a minimum, high
level disinfection after each use and whenever visibly contaminated.
         (k)   All reusable equipment that has contact with intact skin shall
undergo, at a minimum, intermediate level disinfection.
         (l)   All other equipment used during the tattooing or body piercing
procedure shall be single use, including corks.
         (m)   All body piercers and tattoo artists shall comply with all other
equipment manufacturer recommendation.
   (D)   Client records.  Records of every client shall be maintained by the
operator for a minimum of two years. The records shall include the following,
but not be limited to, the client's:
      (1)   Name and, if applicable, the name of any parent or guardian
providing in-person, written consent.
      (2)   Address and, if applicable, the address of any parent or guardian
providing in-person, written consent.
      (3)   Age and form of identification presented to verify age.
      (4)   Date tattooed or body pierced.
      (5)   Design of tattoo.
      (6)   Location of the tattoo or body piercing on the patron's body.
      (7)   The name of the individual who performed the work and verified
required information.
      (8)   Jewelry or other decoration used.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08  OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR FACILITIES AND PRACTITIONERS.
   (A)   Appropriate personal protective equipment shall be worn as follows:
      (1)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM.
      (2)   Masks in combination with eye protection devices such as goggles or
glasses with a solid side shield or chin length face shield shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter, or droplets of blood or OPIM maybe
generated and eye, nose, or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated.
      (3)   Disposable gloves such as surgical or examination type shall be
worn during the tattooing or body-piercing process. Gloves shall be changed and
properly disposed of each time there is an interruption in the application of
the tattoo or body piercing, when the gloves becomes torn or punctured or the
ability to function as a barrier is compromised. Disposable gloves shall not be
reused.
      (4)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces
and equipment.
   (B)   Tattooing equipment.
      (1)   Only single-use razors shall be used.
      (2)   All stencils shall be properly disposed of after a single use.
      (3)   If a design is drawn directly onto the skin, it shall be applied
with a single-use article only.
   (C)   Needles.
      (1)   Needles shall be individually packaged and sterilized prior to use.
      (2)   Needles shall be single-use only.
      (3)   Needles shall be discarded in sharps containers immediately after
use.
      (4)   Contaminated needles shall not be bent or broken or otherwise
manipulated by hand.
   (D)   Dyes or pigments or other objects placed under the skin:
      (1)   All dyes or pigments used in tattooing shall be from professional
suppliers specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human
skin.
      (2)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by tattoo artists, only
non-toxic, sterile materials shall be used. Single-use or individual portions
of dyes or pigment in clean, single-use containers shall be used for each
client.
      (3)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single-use
or individual containers shall be discarded along with the container.
      (4)   Any object placed under the skin shall be sterile.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09  REPORT OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If during the inspection of any tattoo or body piercing establishment
or facility the Health Department discovers any violation of any provision of
this chapter or of 410 IAC 1-5 (or as amended hereafter), the Health Department
shall issue a written report listing such violations.
   (B)   A copy of the written report shall be filed in the records of the
Health Department after appropriate review by supervisory personnel.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)
§ 111.10  PERMIT SUSPENSION OR CLOSURE.
   (A)   The Health Officer may order the suspension of any permit issued for
tattoo and body piercing which shall prohibit any tattooing and body piercing
for the following reasons:
      (1)   Interference with the Health Officer or Health Department in the
performance of their duties. Interference shall be defined as any action that
obstructs, hampers, or otherwise hinders the Health Officer or Health
Department in the performance their duties.
      (2)   Violation, willful or otherwise, of any provision of this chapter
or applicable state and local laws.
   (B)   Whenever the Health Officer or Health Department determines that there
are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any
provision of this chapter, the Health Officer or Health Department shall give
notice of the alleged violation to the person or entity responsible therefor,
and to any known agent of such person. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in written form.
      (2)   Include a statement of reasons why the notice is being issued.
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any corrective or
remedial actions the notice requires.
      (4)   Be personally served upon the owner or the owner's agent, served
upon either or both of them by way of certified mail addressed to the owner's
and/or agent's last known address, posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the subject facility, or served by any other method authorized or required
under the laws of this state.
      (5)   Such notice must provide the corrective or remedial actions, which,
if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)
§ 111.11  REQUEST FOR A HEARING.
   Any person or entity affected by a notice of violation may request and shall
be granted a hearing on the matter before the Health Officer or designated
hearing officer, provided that such person or entity has filed with the Health
Department within ten days after service of such notice a written petition
requesting such hearing and setting forth a statement of the petitioner's
position and grounds for the hearing. Hearings will be held as soon as
reasonably practicable after the receipt of the petition. Upon receipt of such
petition, the Health Officer shall designate and provide the petitioner with
notice of the time and place for such hearing. At any hearing, the petitioner
shall be given an opportunity to be heard and show cause why compliance with
this chapter should not be met.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)
§ 111.12  ENFORCEMENT INTERPRETATION.
   The Health Department may initiate any other actions provided under state or
local laws as deemed necessary by the Health Officer for purposes of proper
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)
§ 111.99  PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine of $500 for the first offense; a fine of up to but not
more than $1,000 for a second or repeat offense; a fine of up to not more than
$1,500 for a third or any subsequent offense, as determined and fixed by the
Health Officer.
   (B)   Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall also be responsible for and pay to the County Health Department all
expenses, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney's fees, or any
losses or damages occasioned by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-7-11)
CHAPTER 112:  PRECIOUS METAL, VALUABLE METAL, SCRAP METAL, PAWN, AND SECOND-
HAND RETAILER REGULATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Applicability
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Records of purchases
   
112.04   Retention before sale or disposition
   
112.05   Items held for identification and restitution
   
112.06   Prohibition of sales to minors
   
112.07   Implementation
   
112.08   Annual inspection
   
112.09   Exemptions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to any person who owns, operates, or otherwise acts as
a precious and or valuable metals dealer, scrapyard, scrap metal dealer,
pawnshop, and or a secondhand retailer in accordance with such terms as defined
below.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-4-20)
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. As defined under I.C. 35-31.5-2-185.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES. The investigation of criminal activity by a law
enforcement officer.
   PAWNBROKER. Shall have the same meaning as pawnshop.
   PAWNSHOP. Any person, partnership, association, or corporation lending money
on the deposit or pledge of personal property, or who deals in the purchase of
personal property on the condition of selling the property back again at a
stipulated price, other than choose in action, securities, or printed evidence
of indebtedness.
   PERSON. An individual, a firm, an association, a limited liability company,
a partnership, a joint stock association, sole proprietorship, joint venture,
unincorporated organization, a trust, a corporation, or any other form of
entity.
   PLEDGE. Providing goods, articles, or things as security for a loan or
obligation.
   PRECIOUS METAL. Any items containing precious metals, including but not
limited to silver, gold and platinum; or containing gems including, but not
limited to, diamonds, rubies or emeralds.
   PRECIOUS METAL DEALER. A person who engages in the business of purchasing
precious metal for the purpose of reselling the precious metal in any form.
   SCRAP METAL. Any items containing scrap metals, including but not limited to
iron, steel, copper, brass, aluminum, zinc, magnesium, tin, nickel, and lead.
   SCRAP METAL DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of purchasing and
reselling scrap metal  either at a permanently established place of business or
in connection with a business of an itinerant nature, including junk shops,
junkyards, junk stores, scrap metal dealers or processors, salvage yards,
collectors of or dealers in junk and junk cars or trucks, or the seller of any
scrap metals originating from a building structure.
   SCRAPYARD. Any establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling scrap metals,
building materials, rope, rags, batteries, paper trash, rubber debris, waste.
This term shall not be construed or applicable to foundry manufacturing
businesses or plants. The term SCRAPYARD will apply in general to any business
or establishment concerned mainly or primarily with the storage, processing,
recycling or salvaging of used or secondhand materials.
   SECONDHAND RETAILER. Any person who engages in the business of purchasing,
selling, or exchanging secondhand goods or articles.
   TRANSACTION. The instance of buying an item or items in a singular event.
   VALUABLE METAL. Copper, titanium, stainless steel, copper alloy or brass,
formed as a bar, cable, rod, tubing, wire, wire scrap, clamp, connector,
bushing or bearing or other appurtenances utilized or that can be utilized by
persons, firms, corporations or municipal corporations engaged in either the
generation, transmission or distribution of electric energy, in telephone,
telegraph or other communications, or by railroads; or any copper, copper alloy
or brass, or aluminum materials utilized for the purpose of plumbing, storm
doors and windows, siding, or gutters of building structures or automotive
parts.
   VALUABLE METAL DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of purchasing and
reselling valuable metal either at a permanently established place of business
or in connection with a business of an itinerant nature, including junk shops,
junkyards, junk stores, auto wreckers, scrap metal dealers or processors,
salvage yards, collectors of or dealers in  junk and junk cars or trucks, or
the seller of any valuable metals originating from a building structure.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-4-20)
§ 112.03  RECORDS OF PURCHASES.
   (A)   (1)   Every person who owns, operates, or otherwise acts as a precious
and or valuable metals dealer, scrapyard, scrap metal dealer, pawnshop, and or
a secondhand retailer in accordance with such terms as defined above, shall
maintain all records of any and all transactions generated.
      (2)   These records shall be uploaded to a third-party vendor to be
determined and approved by the LaPorte County Sheriff. Such records shall be
posted daily by the end of the business day. If a technical malfunction occurs
during the posting and uploading of records, it is the responsibility of the
person uploading the information to contact the LaPorte County Sheriffs Office
and report such malfunction and to maintain a hard copy of such records and
make them available for inspection by the LaPorte County Sheriffs Office. The
dealer shall obtain and report the following information:
         (a)   The date and time of each purchase.
         (b)   An accurate account and description of the item(s) being sold
and or pledged. This is to include, but is not limited to size, weight,
tradename, serial number, manufacturers identification number, brand name,
model number, cellular FCC ID or IMEI, notations of any distinguishing
markings, damage, or characteristics that may be unique to that item(s).
         (c)   The price paid for the item(s) only for law enforcement
purposes.
         (d)   The dealer shall further require the seller be properly
identified with one verifiable piece of current identification that shows name,
address, sex, race and date of birth, which shall be government issued
photographic identification. A color photograph shall be taken of the
identification.
         (e)   A description of any vehicle used in transportation of the scrap
metal, valuable metal, or precious metal if that vehicle is used in the weight
calculation of the metal. The description should include color, make, model and
license plate number with state.
         (f)   A color photograph of the item(s) being sold or pledged.
         (g)   A color photograph of the person from whom the purchase was
made.
         (h)   All information required by the LaPorte County Sheriffs Office
to be preserved on paper, electronic or computer data system shall be open at
all times during the business hours to the inspection of the LaPorte County
Sheriffs to examine such records. Such information shall be retained on the
business premises of the dealer for a minimum period of two years from date of
purchase.
   (B)   Every person who owns, operates, or otherwise acts as a scrapyard or
scrap metal dealer shall report transactions as defined in division (A) of this
section. The dealer shall obtain and report the following:
      (1)   The date and time of each purchase.
      (2)   If applicable (no identifiers, i.e. serial numbers exist), an
accurate account and description of the scrap metal purchased, including the
weight and whether it consists of scrap, bar, cable, rod, tubing, wire, wire
scrap, clamp, connector, auto parts or other appurtenances or some combination
thereof; or the type of building materials purchased.
      (3)   The price paid for the scrap metal; price shall be disclosed only
for law enforcement purposes.
      (4)   The dealer shall further require the seller be properly identified
with one verifiable piece of current identification that shows name, address,
sex, race and date of birth, which shall be government issued photographic
identification. The identification shall be documented.
      (5)   A description of any vehicle used in transportation of the scrap
metal, if that vehicle is used in the weight calculation of the scrap metal.
The description should include color, make, model and license plate number with
state.
      (6)   All information required by the LaPorte County Sheriffs Office to
be preserved on paper, electronic or computer data system shall be open at all
times during the business hours to the inspection of the LaPorte County
Sheriffs to examine such records. Such information shall be retained on the
business premises of the scrap metals dealer for a minimum period of two years
from date of purchase.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-4-20)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  RETENTION BEFORE SALE OR DISPOSITION.
   (A)   All item(s) purchased or pledged by person who owns, operates, or
otherwise acts as a precious and or valuable metals dealer, pawnshop, and or a
secondhand retailer in accordance with such terms as defined above, shall be
retained at the place of business of the dealer, by the proprietor, manager, or
employee for a period of not less than 15 days after its receipt before any
such goods or articles may be disposed of or sold.
   (B)   Any person who owns a scrap yard, and or operates solely as a scrap
metal dealer, shall not be subject to the required retention outlined in
division (A) of this section. However, any business who operates as a scrap
metal dealer, as well as a precious metal dealer and or a valuable metal dealer
must retain the precious and valuable metals as outlined in division (A) of
this section.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-4-20)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  ITEMS HELD FOR IDENTIFICATION AND RESTITUTION.
   (A)   The LaPorte County Sheriff’s Office, or any law enforcement officer
acting within accordance of their duty, may in their discretion order any item
(s), which they shall have reason to believe were not pledged by or purchased
from the lawful owner, to be held for the purpose of identification by the
lawful owner for such length of time as he or she shall deem necessary for the
identification; provided, that no such item(s) shall be held more than 30
calendar days. If it is determined the item(s) were not pledged by or purchased
from the lawful owner, then such item(s) shall be surrendered to the LaPorte
County Sheriff’s Office, or any law enforcement officer acting within
accordance of their duty, upon request.
   (B)   If the LaPorte County Sheriff’s Office, or any law enforcement officer
acting within accordance of their duty, confiscates any item(s) from a dealer,
there will be a good faith attempt to obtain restitution for the dealer in the
amount provided for the purchase of the item(s). The dealer will be considered
a victim in any criminal proceedings and will be afforded such rights provided
to all victims of criminal proceedings.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-4-20)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  PROHIBITION OF SALES TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, operates, or otherwise acts as
a precious and or valuable metals dealer, scrapyard, scrap metal dealer,
pawnshop, and or a secondhand retailer in accordance with such terms as defined
above to take or purchase any item(s) from any person who is under the age of
18 years.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-4-20)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Any person who owns, operates, or otherwise acts as a precious and or
valuable metals dealer, scrapyard, scrap metal dealer, pawnshop, and or a
secondhand retailer in accordance with such terms as defined above operating
before this section was passed by the LaPorte County Commission shall have an
implementation period of not more than 60 days after the LaPorte County
Sheriff’s Office provides written instructions on how to properly report
transactions using the third party as determined and approved by the LaPorte
County Sheriff.
   (B)   Any person who owns, operates, or otherwise acts as a precious and or
valuable metals dealer, scrapyard, scrap metal dealer, pawnshop, and or a
secondhand retailer in accordance with such terms as defined above operating
after this section was passed by the LaPorte County Commission shall post and
upload transaction records to the selected third party vendor beginning on the
first day of operations in accordance with §
112.03.
   (C)   Any third party agent acting on behalf of and under contract by the
LaPorte County Sheriff’s Office may not collect fees or other compensation from
any person who owns, operates, or otherwise acts as a precious and or valuable
metals dealer, scrapyard, scrap metal dealer, pawnshop, and or a secondhand
retailer as previously defined in return for the use of its services. The third
party may not require any person who owns, operates, or otherwise acts as a
precious and or valuable metals dealer, scrapyard, scrap metal dealer,
pawnshop, and or a secondhand retailer to purchase, lease or install any
additional software or to purchase, lease or otherwise obtain any additional
computer hardware.
      (1)   The third party must agree to provide technical and customer
support to any person who owns, operates, or otherwise acts as a precious and
or valuable metals dealer, scrapyard, scrap metal dealer, pawnshop, and or a
secondhand retailer free of charge for purposes of compliance;
      (2)   Payment for the services of a third party must come directly from
the LaPorte County Sheriff’s Office or other authorized government entity that
seeks to use a third party for implementation and compliance.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-4-20)
§ 112.08  ANNUAL INSPECTION.
   Any person who owns, operates, or otherwise acts as a precious and or
valuable metals dealer, scrapyard, scrap metal dealer, pawnshop, and or a
secondhand retailer in accordance with such terms as defined above shall be
subject to a minimum of one random inspection by the LaPorte County Sheriff’s
Office within the calendar year. The inspection shall consist of the following:
A physical examination of records from a specific date, as chosen by the
LaPorte County Sheriff’s Office, for comparison to the data transmitted to the
third party as directed by the LaPorte County Sheriff.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-4-20)
§ 112.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following will be exempt from this chapter: any organization designated
a federal 501(c), any organization or business who receives 100% of their
merchandise for resale from donation, auto resellers, any business operating
solely as a towing and or recovery service, and farm implement resellers.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-4-20)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this section after receiving a written
warning from law enforcement, shall be fined $100 for the first offense, $500
for the second offense within a calendar year of the first offense, and $1,500
for each additional offense within a calendar year of the first offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each transaction that a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-4-20)
CHAPTER 113:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Purpose; findings and rationale
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License required
   
113.04   Issuance of license
   
113.05   Fees
   
113.06   Inspection and license on premises
   
113.07   Business license
   
113.08   Manager on duty
   
113.09   Employee licenses
   
113.10   Expiration and renewal of license
   
113.11   Suspension
   
113.12   Revocation
   
113.13   Hearing; license denial, suspension, revocation; appeal
   
113.14   Transfer of license
   
113.15   Hours of operation
   
113.16   Regulations pertaining to exhibit of sexually explicit films on
premises
   
113.17   Loitering, exterior lighting and monitoring, and interior lighting
requirements
   
113.18   Penalties and enforcement
   
113.19   Applicability of chapter to existing businesses
   
113.20   Prohibited conduct
   
113.21   Scienter required to prove violation or business license liability
   
113.22   Failure of county to meet deadline not to risk applicant/licensee
rights
   
113.23   Prohibitive conduct concerning alcohol
§ 113.01  PURPOSE; FINDINGS AND RATIONALE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the county, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the county. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (B)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the Board of County Commissioners, and on findings, interpretations, and
narrowing constructions incorporated in numerous cases, including, but not
limited to, City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 541 U.S. 774 (2004);
Pap's A.M. v. City of Erie, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda
Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425 (2002); City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc.,
475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres, Inc., 427 U.S. 50 (1976);
Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); FW/PBS, Inc. v. City of
Dallas, 493 U.S. 215 (1990); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); as well
as in the cases of Artistic Entertainment, Inc. v. City of Warner Robins, 223
F.3d 1306 (11th Cir. 2000); Peek-A-Boo Lounge of Bradenton, Inc. v. Manatee
County, 337 F.3d 1251 (11th Cir. 2003); Peek-A-Boo Lounge of Bradenton, Inc. v.
Manatee County, 630 F.3d 1346 (11th Cir. 2011); Gary v. City of Warner Robins,
311 F.3d 1334 (11th Cir. 2002); Ben's Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316
F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003); Wise Enters, v. Unified Gov't of Athens-Clarke
County, 217 F.3d 1360 (11th Cir. 2000); BZAPs, Inc. v. City of Mankato, 268
F.3d 603 (8th Cir. 2001); World Wide Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of
Spokane, 368 U.S. 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Gammoh v. City of La Habra, 395 F.3d
1114 (9th Cir. 2005); Ward v. County of Orange, 217 F.3d 1350 (11th Cir. 2000);
Boss Capital, Inc. v. City of Casselberry, 187 F.3d 1251 (11th Cir. 1999);
David Vincent, Inc. v. Broward County, 200 F.3d 1325 (11th Cir. 2000); Sammy's
of Mobile, Ltd. v. City of Mobile, 140 F.3d 993 (11th Cir. 1998); Lady J.
Lingerie, Inc. v. City of Jacksonville, 176 F.3d 1358 (11th Cir. 1999); Lady J.
Lingerie, Inc. v. City of Jacksonville, 973 F.Supp. 1428 (M.D. Fla. 1997);
Grand Faloon Tavern, Inc. v. Wicker, 670 F.2d 943 (11th Cir. 1982); Board of
County Commissioners v. Dexterhouse, 348 So.2d 916 (Ct. App. Fla. 1977);
International Food & Beverage Systems v. Ft. Lauderdale, 794 F.2d 1520 (11th
Cir. 1986); and other cases; and on reports of secondary effects occurring in
and around sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to,
Planning Department of Phoenix, Arizona (1979) "Adult Business Study"; "Report
of the Attorney General's Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented
Businesses" State of Minnesota (1989); Houston City Council (1997) "Sexually
Oriented Business Ordinance Revision Committee Legislative Report"; Department
of Metropolitan Development of Indianapolis, Indiana (1984) "Adult
Entertainment Businesses in Indianapolis"; Planning Department, City of
Amarillo, Texas (1977) "A Report of Zoning and Other Methods of Regulating
Adult Entertainment in Amarillo"; Garden Grove, California (1991) "Negative
Secondary Effects of Sexually Oriented Businesses: Summaries of Key Reports";
Department of City Planning, Los Angeles, California (1977) "Study of the
Effects of the Concentration of Adult Entertainment Establishments"; Staff
Report, Whittier, California (1978) "Amendment to Zoning Regulations"; City
Council of Austin, Texas (1986) "Report on Adult Oriented Businesses in
Austin"; Community Development Department, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (1986)
"Adult Entertainment Businesses in Oklahoma City"; Peter Malin, Dallas, Texas
(1997) "An Analysis of the Effects of SOBs on Surrounding Neighborhoods'";
Insight Associates, New York Times Square Study (1994) "Report on the Secondary
Effects of the Concentration of Adult Use Establishments in the Times Square
Area"; Phoenix, Arizona (1995-98) "Adult Cabarets Factual Record"; Richard
McCleary, Ph.D., Greensboro, North Carolina (2003) "A Methodological Critique
of the Linz-Yao Report: Report to the Greensboro City Attorney"; and based upon
reports concerning secondary effects occurring in and around sexually oriented
businesses in and around LaPorte County: A Study of Sexually Oriented
Businesses, Final Report; LaPorte County, Indiana; by Duncan Associates dated
August, 2012.
   (C)   The LaPorte County Commissioners now finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter,
and sexual assault and exploitation.
      (2)   Alcoholic consumption in sexual oriented businesses increases the
likelihood of crime, illegal drug use, and illegal sexual activity, that
increases and aggravates the negative direct and secondary effects of sexual
oriented businesses and encourages undesirable behavior that it not in the
interest of the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (3)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the county has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects,
which is the county's rationale for this chapter, exists independent of any
comparative analysis between sexually oriented and non-sexually oriented
businesses. Additionally, the county's interest in regulating sexually oriented
businesses extends to preventing future secondary effects of either current or
future sexually oriented businesses that may locate in the county. The county
finds that the cases and documentation relied on in this chapter are reasonably
believed to be relevant to said secondary effects.
   (D)   The county hereby adopts and incorporates herein its stated findings
and legislative record related to the adverse secondary effects of sexually
oriented businesses, including the judicial opinions and reports related to
such secondary effects.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined in the
sections hereunder shall have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to
them unless a different meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which, as
one of its principal business activities, offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, compact discs, digital video discs, slides or other visual
representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas." A "principal
business activity" exists where the commercial establishment meets any one or
more of the following criteria:
      (1)   At least 35% of the establishment's displayed merchandise consists
of said items;
      (2)   At least 35% of the wholesale value of the establishment's
displayed merchandise consists of said items;
      (3)   At least 35% of the retail value (defined as the price charged to
customers) of the establishment's displayed merchandise consists of said items;
      (4)   At least 35% of the establishment's revenues derive from the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of said items;
      (5)   The establishment maintains at least 35% of its floor space for the
display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways used to access
said items shall be included in "floor space" maintained for the display, sale,
or rental of said items);
      (6)   The establishment maintains at least 500 square feet of its floor
space for the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and walkways
used to access said items shall be included in "floor space" maintained for the
display, sale, or rental of said items);
      (7)   The establishment regularly offers for sale or rental at least
2,000 of said items;
      (8)   The establishment regularly features said items and regularly
advertises itself or holds itself out, by using "adult," "adults-only," "XXX,"
"sex," "erotic," "novelties," or substantially similar language, as an
establishment that caters to adult sexual interests;
      (9)   The establishment maintains an "adult arcade," which means any
place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or
slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still
or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are
regularly maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any
one time, and where the images so displayed are characterized by their emphasis
upon matter exhibiting "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas."
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment, regardless of whether alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features live conduct characterized by semi-nudity. No
establishment shall avoid classification as an adult cabaret by offering or
featuring nudity.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" are regularly shown to more than
five people for any form of consideration.
   ALCOHOL. The compound C2H5OH, known as ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of
ethyl, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process
produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. A liquid or solid that: (1) is, or contains 0.5% or more
alcohol by volume; (2) is fit for human consumption; and, (3) is reasonably
likely, or intended, to be used as a beverage.
   BATH HOUSE, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. An enterprise where a portion of its business
is offering baths with other persons present who are nude or displaying
specified anatomical areas.
   BODY PAINTING STUDIO, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. An establishment where a portion of
its business is the application of paint or other substance to or on the human
body by any means of application, technique or process when the subject's body
displays or the patrons view of specified anatomical areas.
   CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an item.
As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually
oriented business by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials rated NC-
17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   COUNTY. The County of LaPorte, Indiana.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, AND EMPLOYMENT. Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a
full-time, part-time, or contract basis, regardless of whether the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, lessee, or otherwise.
EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT. Means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or,
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
   FLOOR SPACE. The floor area inside a sexually oriented business that is
visible or accessible to patrons for any reason, excluding restrooms.
   HEARING OFFICER. An attorney, not otherwise employed by the county, who is
licensed to practice law in Indiana, and retained to serve as an independent
tribunal to conduct hearings under this chapter.
   INFLUENTIAL INTEREST. Any of the following: (1) the actual power to operate
the sexually oriented business or control the operation, management or policies
of the sexually oriented business or legal entity which operates the sexually
oriented business; (2) ownership of a financial interest of 30% or more of a
business or of any class of voting securities of a business; or, (3) holding an
office (e.g., president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, managing member,
managing director, etc.) in a legal entity which operates the sexually oriented
business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license. In the
case of an "employee," it shall mean the person in whose name the sexually
oriented business employee license has been issued.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, or
buttocks with less than a full opaque covering; the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple; or,
the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of a sexually oriented business who
causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the business
or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall operational
control of the business premises. A person may be found to be operating or
causing to be operated a sexually oriented business regardless of whether that
person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
sexually oriented business license.
   REGULARLY. The consistent and repeated doing of an act on an ongoing basis.
   REVIEWING ROOM. The room, booth, or area where a patron of a sexually
oriented business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film,
videocassette, digital video disc, or other video reproduction.
   SEMI-NUDE OR SEMI-NUDITY. The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human  female breasts
exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or similar wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A place where persons regularly appear in a state of
semi-nudity for money or any form of consideration in order to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons. This definition does not apply to any place where persons
appearing in a state of semi-nudity did so in a class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or,
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and,
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class.
   SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three dimensional object designed for stimulation of the
male or female human genitals, anus, buttocks, female breast, or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices
commonly known as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, cock rings, anal beads, butt
plugs, nipple clamps, and physical representation of the human genital organs.
Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include devices primarily
intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing
pregnancy.
   SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices. This definition shall not be construed to include any
pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic, any establishment primarily dedicated to
providing medical or healthcare products or services, or any establishment that
does not limit access to its premises or a portion of its premises to adults
only.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore or adult video store, an
adult cabaret, an adult motion picture theater, a semi-nude model studio, a
sexual device shop, a sexually oriented bath house, a sexually oriented body
painting studio, or a sexually oriented encounter center.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or enterprise that offers
physical contact between two or more persons when one or more of the persons is
in a state of nudity or semi-nudity, for the purpose of engaging in specified
sexual activity or touching specified anatomical areas, but not including a
sexually oriented cabaret or nightclub.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means and includes:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals; pubic
region; buttock; and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and,
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following specified crimes for which
less than five years has elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of
release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date:
      (1)   Rape, sexual assault, public indecency, statutory rape, rape of a
child, sexual exploitation of a minor, indecent exposure, or any offense that
requires the offender to register with the State of Indiana as a convicted sex
offender;
      (2)   Prostitution, patronizing prostitution, promoting prostitution;
      (3)   Obscenity;
      (4)   Manufacturing, delivering, or possession with intent to deliver any
controlled substances or cannabis;
      (5)   Racketeering, tax evasion, money laundering;
      (6)   Any attempt, solicitation, or conspiracy to commit one of the
foregoing offenses;
      (7)   Human and sexual trafficking; or,
      (8)   Any offense in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate act(s)
been committed in Indiana, would have constituted any of the foregoing
offenses.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following:
      (1)   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or,
      (2)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in division (1) above.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL of a sexually oriented business means any
of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or,
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Business license. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
sexually oriented business in the county without a valid sexually oriented
business license.
   (B)   Employee license. It shall be unlawful for any person to be an
"employee," as defined in this chapter, of a sexually oriented business in the
county without a valid sexually oriented business employee license, except that
a person who is a licensee under a valid sexually oriented business license
shall not be required to also obtain a sexually oriented business employee
license.
   (C)   Application. An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or
a sexually oriented business employee license shall file in person at the
office of the County Administrator or his/her assigns a completed application
made on a form provided by the County Administrator or his/her assigns. A
sexually oriented business may designate an individual with an influential
interest in the business to file its application for a sexually oriented
business license in person on behalf of the business. The application shall be
signed as required by division (C)(3) of this section and shall be notarized.
An application shall be considered complete when it contains, for each person
required to sign the application, the information and/or items required in this
division, accompanied by the appropriate licensing fee:
      (1)   The applicant's full legal name and any other names used by the
applicant in the preceding five years.
      (2)   Current business address or another mailing address for the
applicant.
      (3)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver's license, a picture
identification document containing the applicant's date of birth issued by a
governmental agency, or a copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture
identification document issued by a governmental agency.
      (4)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
business name, location, legal description, mailing address and phone number of
the sexually oriented business.
      (5)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to
receive service of process.
      (6)   A statement of whether an applicant has been convicted of or has
pled guilty or nolo contendere to a specified criminal activity as defined in
this chapter, and if so, each specified criminal activity involved, including
the date, place, and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction
and release from confinement, where applicable.
      (7)   A statement of whether any sexually oriented business in which an
applicant has had an influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and
at a time during which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or,
         (b)   Been subject to a court order of closure or padlocking.
      (8)   (a)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall
be accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business is
located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business and a
statement of floor area visible or accessible to patrons for any reason,
excluding restrooms. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared
but shall be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with market dimensions of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. Applicants
who are required to comply with the stage, booth, and/or room configuration
requirements of this chapter shall submit a diagram indicating that the setup
and configuration of the premises meets the requirements of the applicable
regulations. The County Administrator or his/her assigns may waive the
requirements of this division (8) for a renewal application if the applicant
adopts a legal description and a sketch or diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
         (b)   The information provided pursuant to this division (C) shall be
supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
County Administrator or his/her assigns within ten working days of a change of
circumstances which would render the information originally submitted false or
incomplete.
   (D)   Signature. A person who seeks a sexually oriented business employee
license under this section shall sign the application for a license. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license under this section is an
individual, he shall sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license is other than an
individual, each person with an influential interest in the sexually oriented
business or in a legal entity that controls the sexually oriented business
shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee
if a license is granted. Each person who files in person either an application
for a sexually oriented business license or an application for a sexually
oriented business employee license shall also submit, with the application, a
set of fingerprints taken by the LaPorte County Sheriff’s Department on a form
provided by the Sheriff’s Department. The LaPorte County Sheriff’s Department
shall take fingerprints, during normal business hours, within four business
hours of receiving a request for such service.
   (E)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the office
of the County Administrator or his/her assigns on a confidential basis, and
such information may be disclosed only as may be required, and only to the
extent required, by governing law or court order. Any information protected by
the right to privacy as recognized by state or federal law shall be redacted
prior to such disclosure.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.04  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Business license. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually oriented business license, the County Administrator or his/her assigns
shall immediately issue a temporary license to the applicant if the completed
application is from a preexisting sexually oriented business that is lawfully
operating in the county and the completed application, on its face, indicates
that the applicant is entitled to an annual sexually oriented business license.
The temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of the county to
deny or grant an annual license. Within 30 days of the filing of a completed
sexually oriented business license application, the County Administrator or
his/her assigns shall either issue a license to the applicant or issue a
written notice of intent to deny a license to the applicant. The County
Administrator or his/her assigns shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      (4)   The sexually oriented business, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is
not in compliance with locational requirements of the ordinances of LaPorte
County.
      (5)   Any sexually oriented business in which an applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or,
         (b)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      (6)   An applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Employee license. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually oriented business employee license, the County Administrator or his/
her assigns shall immediately issue a temporary license to the applicant if the
applicant seeks licensure to work in a licensed sexually oriented business and
the complete application, on its face, indicates that the applicant is entitled
to an annual sexually oriented business employee license. The temporary license
shall expire upon the final decision of the county to deny or grant an annual
license. Within 30 days of the filing of a completed sexually oriented business
employee license application, the County Administrator or his/her assigns shall
either issue a license to the applicant or issue a written notice of intent to
deny a license to the applicant. The County Administrator or his/her assigns
shall issue a license unless:
      (1)   The applicant is less than 18 years of age.
      (2)   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      (3)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      (4)   Any sexually oriented business in which the applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (a)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or,
         (b)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      (5)   The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the licenses issued to
the licensee(s), the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually
oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business. The sexually
oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be read at any time
that the business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. A sexually
oriented business employee shall keep the employee's license on his or her
person or on the premises where the licensee is then working or performing.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.05  FEES.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for sexually oriented business
licenses and sexually oriented business employee licenses shall be as follows:
$1,000 for the initial and annual renewal fee for a sexually oriented business
license; $100 for the initial and annual renewal fee for a sexually oriented
business employee license.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.06  INSPECTION AND LICENSE ON PREMISES.
   Sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees shall
permit the County Administrator or his/her assigns to inspect, from time to
time on an occasional basis, the portions of the sexually oriented business
premises where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance
with the specific regulations of this chapter, during those times when the
sexually oriented business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public.
This section shall be narrowly construed by the county to authorize reasonable
inspections of the licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but not to
authorize a harassing or excessive pattern of inspection.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.07  BUSINESS LICENSE.
   The business license for a sexually oriented business shall be displayed
prominently at the main entrance of the establishment.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.08  MANAGER ON DUTY.
   The name of the manager on duty shall be prominently displayed at the main
entrance of the establishment.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.09  EMPLOYEE LICENSES.
   Licenses of all individual employees shall be maintained on file on the
premises for inspection by the authorities, upon request.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.10  EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Application for renewal of an annual license shall be made at least 90
days before the expiration date of the current annual license. If an
application for renewal is made in less than 90 days prior to the expiration
date of the current annual license, then the applicant risks the sole
responsibility of the annual license expiring. There shall be no extension of
an annual license as a result of application for renewal less than 90 days
before license expiration.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.11  SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The County Administrator or his/her assigns shall issue a written
notice of intent to suspend a sexually oriented business license for a period
not to exceed 30 days if the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly
or recklessly violated this chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an
employee or any other person to violate this chapter.
   (B)   The County Administrator or his/her assigns shall issue a written
notice of intent to suspend a sexually oriented business employee license for a
period not to exceed 30 days if the employee licensee has knowingly or
recklessly violated this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.12  REVOCATION.
   (A)   The County Administrator shall issue a written notice of intent to
revoke a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business
employee license, as applicable, if the licensee knowingly or recklessly
violates this chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any
other person to violate this chapter and a suspension of the licensee's license
has become effective within the previous 12 month period.
   (B)   The County Administrator shall issue a written intent to revoke a
sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented employee license, as
applicable, if:
      (1)   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the sexually oriented business license or the sexually oriented
business employee license;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises of the
sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (4)   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the license was finally suspended or
revoked;
      (5)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specific sexual activity or specified criminal activity to occur in or on the
premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (6)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of 21 years to consume alcohol on the premises of the sexually oriented
business;
      (7)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed the sale,
dispensation, service, or consumption of an alcoholic beverage on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, or in violation of any other section
concerning alcoholic beverages in this chapter or any subsequent amendment; or,
      (8)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of 18 years to appear in a state of semi-nudity or nudity on the premises
of the sexually oriented business.
   (C)   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license, provided that, if any conviction which
serves as a basis of a license revocation is overturned or reversed on appeal,
that conviction shall be treated as null and of no effect for revocation
purposes.
   (D)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in this
chapter, the county revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
or sexually oriented business employee license for one year from the date the
revocation becomes effective.
   (E)   A sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business
employee license, as applicable, shall not be revoked except for a reason set
forth in division (A) or (B) of this section. The county shall not enforce a
revocation of a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented
business employee license, as applicable, unless the revocation is accomplished
in accordance with this section and § 113.13.
   (F)   No person shall sell, dispense, serve, or consume alcoholic beverages
on the premises of a sexually oriented business. In the case of a preexisting
sexually oriented business lawfully operating in the county which holds a
license to sell alcoholic beverages on the effective date of this chapter and
subsequent amendments, this division (F) shall apply only upon the expiration,
revocation, or other termination of the annual liquor license that is in effect
at the preexisting sexually oriented business. In no case shall any person
possess, use, or consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of a sexually
oriented business at any time after the first anniversary of the effective date
of this chapter or its subsequent amendment.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.13  HEARING; LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION; APPEAL
   (A)   (1)   When the County Administrator or his/her assigns issues a
written notice of intent to deny, suspend, or revoke a license, the County
Administrator or his/her assigns shall immediately send such notice, which
shall include the specific grounds under this chapter for such action, to the
applicant or licensee (respondent) by personal delivery or certified mail. The
notice shall be directed to the most current business address or other mailing
address on file with the County Administrator for the respondent. The notice
shall also set forth the following: The respondent shall have ten days after
the delivery of the written notice to submit, at the office of the County
Administrator or his/her assigns a written request for a hearing. If the
respondent does not request a hearing within said ten days, the County
Administrator's written notice shall become a final denial, suspension, or
revocation, as the case may be, on the 30th day after it is issued, and shall
be subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section.
      (2)   If the respondent does make a written request for a hearing within
said ten days, then the County Administrator or his/her assigns shall, within
ten days after the submission of the request, send a notice to the respondent
indicating the date, time, and place of the hearing. The hearing shall be
conducted not less than ten days nor more than 20 days after the date that the
hearing notice is issued. The county shall provide for the hearing to be
transcribed.
      (3)   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to
present all of respondent's arguments and to be represented by counsel, present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of the
County Administrator's witnesses. The County Administrator or his/her assigns
shall also be represented by counsel, and shall bear the burden of proving the
grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking the license. The hearing shall
take no longer than two days, unless extended at the request of the respondent
to meet the requirements of due process and proper administration of justice.
The Hearing Officer shall issue a final written decision, including specific
reasons for the decision pursuant to this chapter, to the respondent within
five days after the hearing.
      (4)   If the decision is to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, the
decision shall advise the respondent of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective
until the 30th day after it is rendered. If the Hearing Officer's decision
finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of the
license, the Hearing Officer shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of the
decision, order the County Administrator or his/her assigns to immediately
withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the license and to notify the
respondent in writing by certified mail of such action. If the respondent is
not yet licensed, the County Administrator or his/her assigns shall
contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   (B)   If any court action challenging a licensing decision is initiated, the
county shall prepare and transmit to the court a transcript of the hearing
within 30 days after receiving written notice of the filing of the court
action. The county shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of
the action, shall comply with any expedited schedule set by the court, and
shall facilitate prompt judicial review of the proceedings. The following shall
apply to any sexually oriented business that is lawfully operating as a
sexually oriented business, or any sexually oriented business employee that is
lawfully employed as a sexually oriented business employee, on the date on
which the completed business or employee application, as applicable, is filed
with the County Administrator or his/her assigns: Upon the enforcement of any
denial, suspension, or revocation of a temporary license or annual license, the
County Administrator or his/her assigns shall immediately issue the respondent
a provisional license. The provisional license shall allow the respondent to
continue operation of the sexually oriented business or to continue employment
as a sexually oriented business employee and will expire upon the court's entry
of a judgment on the respondent's appeal or other action to restrain or
otherwise enjoin the county's enforcement.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.14  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the sexually oriented
business license application.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.15  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business between
2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.16  REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBIT OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS ON
PREMISES.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
which exhibits in a booth or viewing room on the premises, through any
mechanical or electronic image-producing device, a film, video cassette,
digital video disc, or other video reproduction characterized by an emphasis on
the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall
contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all operator's
stations, booths or viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, and restrooms,
and shall designate all portions of the premises in which patrons will not be
permitted. Restrooms shall not contain equipment for displaying films, video
cassettes, digital video discs, or other video reproductions. The diagram shall
also designate the place at which the license will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn
to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The County Administrator or his/her assigns may
waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a
diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of
the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
   (C)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on the
licensed premises.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
      (1)   That the occupancy of viewing rooms less than 150 square feet is
limited to one person.
      (2)   That specified sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
      (3)   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
      (4)   That violators will be required to leave the premises.
      (5)   That violations of these regulations are unlawful.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in divisions (E)(1) through (E)(4) of this section.
   (G)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from an operator's station of every area of the
premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding restrooms,
to which any person is permitted access for any purpose. An operator's station
shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area. If the premises has two or more
operator's stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall be
configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms, from at least one of the operator's stations. The view required in
this paragraph must be by direct line of sight from the operator's station. It
is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one employee is on duty and
situated in each operator's station at all times that any patron is on the
premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that the view area
specified in this paragraph remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls,
merchandise, display racks or other materials or enclosures at all times that
any patron is present on the premises.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that no porous
materials are used for any wall, floor, or seat in any booth or viewing room.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under divisions (A)
through (H) of this section to knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that
duty.
      (2)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly enter or remain in a
viewing room less than 150 square feet in area that is occupied by any other
patron.
      (3)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly be or remain within one
foot of any other patron while in a viewing room that is 150 square feet or
larger in area.
      (4)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly make any hole or opening
between viewing rooms.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.17  LOITERING, EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND MONITORING, AND INTERIOR LIGHTING
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to: (i) ensure that at least two conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is
permitted on the premises are posted on the premises; (ii) designate one or
more employees to monitor the activities of persons on the premises by visually
inspecting the premises at least once every 90 minutes or inspecting the
premises by use of video cameras and monitors; and (iii) provide lighting to
the exterior premises to provide for visual inspection or video monitoring to
prohibit loitering. Said lighting shall be of sufficient intensity to
illuminate every place to which customers are permitted access at an
illumination of not less than one foot candle as measured at the floor level.
If used, video cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at all times
that the premises are open for business. The monitors shall be installed within
an operator's station.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to ensure that the interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five foot candles as
measured at floor level and the illumination must be maintained at all times
that any customer is present in or on the premises.
   (C)   No sexually oriented business shall erect a fence, wall, or similar
barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the establishment
from being visible from a public right-of-way.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.18  PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A person who violates any of the provisions subject to this chapter
may be fined no more than $750 plus court costs. Each day a violation is
committed, or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and
may be fined as such, subject to the discretion of the County Administrator or
his/her assigns.
   (B)   Any premises, building, dwelling, or other structure in which a
sexually oriented business is repeatedly operated or maintained in violation of
this chapter shall constitute a nuisance and shall be subject to civil
abatement proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   The county's legal counsel is hereby authorized to institute civil
proceedings necessary for the enforcement of this chapter to enjoin, prosecute,
restrain, or correct violations hereof. Such proceedings shall be brought in
the name of the county, provided, however, that nothing in this section and no
action taken hereunder, shall be held to exclude such criminal or
administrative proceedings as may be authorized by other provisions of this
chapter, or any of the laws in force in the county or to exempt anyone
violating this code or any part of the said laws from penalty which may be
incurred.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.19  APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO EXISTING BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Licensing. Each preexisting sexually oriented business lawfully
operating in the county in compliance with all state and local laws prior to
the effective date of this chapter, and each sexually oriented business
employee lawfully working as such in the county prior to the effective date of
this chapter, is hereby granted a de facto temporary license to continue
operation or employment for a period of 30 days following the effective date of
this chapter. By the end of said 30 days, all sexually oriented businesses and
sexually oriented business employees must apply for a license under this
chapter.
   (B)   Interior configuration and conduct requirements. Any preexisting
sexually oriented businesses which are required to, but do not, have interior
configurations or stages that meet at least the minimum requirements of §§
113.16 and
113.20(B) shall have 180 days from the effective date of this chapter to
conform their premises to said requirements. During said 180 days, any employee
who appears within view of any patron in a semi-nude condition shall
nevertheless remain, while semi-nude, at least six feet from all patrons.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.20  PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No patron, employee, or any other person shall knowingly or
intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appear in a state of nudity or
engage in a specified sexual activity.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear in a semi-nude condition unless the person is an employee who,
while semi-nude, remains at least six feet from all patrons and on a stage at
least 18 inches from the floor in a room of at least 600 square feet.
   (C)   No employee who regularly appears semi-nude in a sexually oriented
business shall knowingly or intentionally touch a patron or the clothing of a
patron on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly allow a person under the age
of 18 years to be or remain on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (E)   No operator or licensee of a sexually oriented business shall
knowingly violate the regulations in this section or knowingly allow an
employee or any other person to violate the regulations in this section.
   (F)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the County Administrator or his/
her assigns, and summarizing the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C), (D),
and (E) of this section, shall be posted near the entrance of the sexually
oriented business in such a manner as to be clearly visible to patrons upon
entry. No person shall cover, obstruct, or obscure said sign.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 8-18-14)
§ 113.21  SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LICENSEE LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental
state is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee's license shall be imputed to the sexually oriented business
licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or for purposes
of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer, director, or
general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or controlled the
operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly allowed such act to
occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability that the person to
whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.22  FAILURE OF COUNTY TO MEET DEADLINE NOT TO RISK APPLICANT/ LICENSEE
RIGHTS.
   In the event that a county official is required to act or to do a thing
pursuant to this chapter within a prescribed time, and fails to act or to do
such thing within the time prescribed, said failure shall not prevent the
exercise of constitutional rights of an applicant or licensee. If the act
required of the county official under this chapter, and not completed in the
time prescribed, includes approval of condition(s) necessary for approval by
the county of an applicant or licensee's application for a sexually oriented
business license or a sexually oriented business employee's license (including
a renewal), the license shall be deemed granted and the business or employee
allowed to commence operations or employment the day after the deadline for the
county's action has passed.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-20-12; Am. Ord. 2014- 04, passed 6-18-14)
§ 113.23  PROHIBITIVE CONDUCT CONCERNING ALCOHOL.
   The following conduct is prohibited on the premises of any business where a
liquor license has been issued or where alcoholic beverages are sold,
dispensed, served, or consumed:
   (A)   For any employee to expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks,
natal cleft, perineum, anal region, pubic hair region, or any portion of the
female breast at or below the areola thereof (excluding any portion of the
cleavage of the human female breasts exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse,
shirt, leotard, or similar wearing apparel provided the areola is not exposed
in whole or in part to a patron);
   (B)   For any employee to touch, caress, or fondle the breast, buttocks,
anus, or genitals of any patron;
   (C)   For any person to perform any act of sexual intercourse, masturbation,
sodomy, bestiality, or copulation, flagellation or any sexual acts prohibited
by law;
   (D)   For purpose of this section, the term EMPLOYEE shall mean any person
who regularly performs any service on a full-time, part-time, or contract
basis, regardless of whether the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent., lessee, or otherwise, on the premises of any business where
a liquor license has been issued or where alcoholic liquor is sold, dispensed,
served, or consumed;
   (E)   For the purposes of this section, the term REGULARLY means the
consistent and repeated doing of an act on an ongoing basis;
   (F)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to conduct in theaters,
concert halls, art centers, museums, or similar establishments that are
primarily devoted to the art or theatrical performances, when the performances
that are presented are expressing matters of serious literary, artistic,
scientific, or political value. The exception in the previous sentence shall
not be construed to apply to any sexually oriented business or adult
entertainment facility as defined by applicable law.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-18-14)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Public property; congregation restricted
   
130.02   County property; lawn use restricted
   
130.03   Leaf or debris burning on County Roads
Weapons
   
130.15   Dangerous or deadly weapons on county property prohibited
   
130.16   Definition
   
130.17   Exceptions
   
130.18   Highway exception
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01  PUBLIC PROPERTY; CONGREGATION RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to knowingly block or
restrict the use of any entrance or exit or any step way or stairway leading to
an entrance or exit to any county building, by sitting or laying in that
entrance way or exit way or on the step way or stairway inside or outside any
county building.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to knowingly congregate in any
entrance way or exit way or any step way or stairway leading to any entrance
way or exit way to any county building, so as to restrict ingress or egress to
that building.
(`88 Code, § 6-86) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.02  COUNTY PROPERTY; LAWN USE RESTRICTED.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners finds that the courthouse lawn
surrounding the courthouse located in the City of LaPorte has been damaged by
the public.
   (B)   No resident of the county or any other person shall come on, upon, or
across this courthouse lawn located in the City of LaPorte, or any trees or
shrubbery located thereon, unless that person shall first have obtained special
written permission from the Board of Commissioners issued at a regular meeting
of the Board of Commissioners.
(`88 Code, § 6-87)  (Ord. 74-717, passed 7-1-74)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.03  LEAF OR DEBRIS BURNING ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   Leaf or debris burning is prohibited on the traveled or paved portion
of any County Road.
   (B)   Anyone in violation shall be subject to a fine of $500.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 11-21-06)
WEAPONS
§ 130.15  DANGEROUS OR DEADLY WEAPONS ON COUNTY PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person, unless otherwise permitted by this subchapter, shall possess or
transport a deadly or dangerous weapon in government buildings or structures
owned or administered by LaPorte County.
(`88 Code, § 6-165)  (Ord. 95-6, passed 2-21-95; Am. Ord. 2002-15, passed 8-13-
02) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.16  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any weapon that is defined in I.C. 35-41-1-8, to include:
      (1)   Any firearm;
      (2)   Any knife;
      (3)   Any stun gun or lazar;
      (4)   Any explosive devise or material;
      (5)   Any chemical spray;
      (6)   Any object or material capable of being used as a dangerous deadly
weapon.
(`88 Code, § 6-166)  (Ord. 95-6, passed 2-21-95; Am. Ord. 2002-15, passed 8-13-
02)
§ 130.17  EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any prohibition found in §
130.15, the following persons may possess or transport firearms as otherwise
permitted by law:
   (A)   Marshals;
   (B)   Sheriffs;
   (C)   The Commissioner of the Department of Corrections or any person
authorized by such Commissioner in writing to carry firearms;
   (D)   Judicial Officers, Probation Officers and Juvenile Service Center
employees;
   (E)   Law enforcement officers;
   (F)   Members of the Armed Forces of the United States of America, National
Guard or Organized Reserve Forces while on duty;
   (G)   Employees of the United States of America, State of Indiana or the
county who are duly authorized to carry handguns;
   (H)   Any person who is engaged in the business of manufacturing, preparing
or dealing in firearms or their agent or representative of any such person
having in his possession, using or carrying a handgun in their usual course of
that business.
   (I)   Museums, historical societies or other persons who possess or
transport firearms that are kept for display as relics;
   (J)   The regularly enrolled members of any organization duly authorized to
purchase and receive such weapons from United States of America or the State of
Indiana who are at or are going to or from their place of assembly or target
practice.
(`88 Code, § 6-167)  (Ord. 95-6, passed 2-21-95; Am. Ord. 2002-15, passed 8-13-
02)
§ 130.18  HIGHWAY EXCEPTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit the possession or
transportation of firearms on highways currently defined in I.C. 8-23-1-23, or
public highways, as defined in I.C. 8-2.1-17-14.
(`88 Code, § 6-169)  (Ord. 95-6, passed 2-21-95; Am. Ord. 2002-15, passed 8-13-
02)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
APPENDIX A:  FEEDLOTS; AREA REQUIREMENTS
      
APPENDIX B:  FOSTER CARE HOMES; CATEGORIES
   
151.   BUILDING CODE
      
APPENDIX:  ORDER OF UNSAFE BUILDING
   
152.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING AND MOBILE HOMES
      APPENDIX:  FINAL SITE PLAN CERTIFICATES
   
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
APPENDIX A:  SECONDARY PLAT CERTIFICATES
      
APPENDIX B:  MINIMUM DESIGN FOR STREET PAVEMENT
      
APPENDIX C:  AGGREGATE BASE SPECIFICATIONS
      
APPENDIX D:  THOROUGHFARE PLAN
      
APPENDIX E:  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR HIGHWAYS IN ALL SUBDIVISIONS
   
154.   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
   
155.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
   
156.   WETLANDS AND EROSION
   
157.   ZONING
      
APPENDIX A:  OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF USES
      
APPENDIX B:  RESIDENTIAL LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS
      
APPENDIX C:  RESIDENTIAL USE RESTRICTIONS
      
APPENDIX D:  BUSINESS USE RESTRICTIONS
      
APPENDIX E:  INDUSTRIAL USE RESTRICTIONS
      
APPENDIX F:  PARKING SPACE AND AREA
      
APPENDIX G:  OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Adoption
   
150.03   Comprehensive plan
   
150.04   Rules
   
150.05   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.15   Enforcement official designated
   
150.16   Appeals body designated
   
150.17   Penalties for violation; collection
   
150.18   Enforcement; injunctive relief
   
150.19   Common nuisance
   
150.20   Procedure to impose a fine for violation
   
150.21   Schedule of fees and fines authorized
Advisory Plan Commission
   
150.35   Establishment
   
150.36   Duties
   
150.37   Officers, members, and employees
   
150.38   Meetings
   
150.39   Official action; discussion and voting
   
150.40   Minutes and records
   
150.41   Public hearings
   
150.42   Notice requirements; public hearings
   
150.43   Conduct of public hearings
   
150.44   Final disposition of cases
   
150.45   Committees
   
150.46   Amendments to rules and procedures
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
150.60   Establishment
   
150.61   Duties
   
150.62   Officers, members, and employees
   
150.63   Meetings
   
150.64   Official action; discussion and voting
   
150.65   Minutes and records
   
150.66   Public hearings
   
150.67   Order of business
   
150.68   Variance, use, exception, and appeal procedure
   
150.69   Notice requirements
   
150.70   Commitments and conditions authorized
   
150.71   Rules and procedures authorized
   
Appendix A:     Feedlots; Area Requirements
   
Appendix B:     Foster Care Homes; Categories
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned and Junk Vehicles, see
Chapter 95
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the county Master Plan is to compile all zoning
ordinances and other ordinances that leave enforcement to the Building
Commissioner, Plan Commission, or the Board of Zoning Appeals.  The Master
Plan, this Title XV, is to be read as a whole. 
   (B)   In the event of a conflict between any separate sections, the section
of specific applicability will control.
(`88 Code, § 8-1)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.02  ADOPTION.
   The new Master and Zoning Plan as presented by the county Plan Commission is
adopted.
(`88 Code, § 8-3)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.03  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The objective of future land use planning and development in the
unincorporated areas of the county will consider:
      (1)   Establishment of land use patterns that are logical, orderly,
attractive, and convenient;
      (2)   Protection of private investment;
      (3)   Protection of the environment;
      (4)   Efficient use of public resources; and
      (5)   Improvement of the quality of life.
   (B)   The policy for land use planning and development will consider:
      (1)   Land use patterns involving physical features and existing land
uses;
      (2)   Land use intensity based on current uses and demographic trends;
      (3)   Housing needs based on area growth rates and current land
character;
      (4)   Growth patterns and projected land uses;
      (5)   Environmental protection, open space, recreational facilities, and
agricultural uses; and
      (6)   Existing capital facilities and sound fiscal economic development.
   (C)   The policy for the development of public ways, public places and
lands, public structures, and public utilities will consider:
      (1)   Land available by donation or dedication for public use;
      (2)   Development of public ways with large residential development; and
      (3)   Location of public structures and utilities for greatest
convenience of use and facility.
   (D)   In planning for development of future growth and use of this plan, the
following additional criteria and documents may be considered:
      (1)   Histories of the county and unincorporated communities, population,
and growth trends, as well as physical site conditions;
      (2)   Population densities and land use;
      (3)   Land utilization, including agriculture, forests, and suburban
development trends;
      (4)   Conservation of energy, water, soil, and agricultural and mineral
resources; and
      (5)   Survey studies, maps, charts, plats, and other descriptive material
of soil development histories and trends within the county.
(`88 Code, § 8-2)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.04  RULES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this title, the following rules shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different usage.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. 
Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the
plural the singular.
      (2)   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot.  If a
fraction is one-half or less, the integral foot next below shall be taken.
      (3)   Parenthetical words or statements are integral parts of the
definitions in which they are located.
   (B)   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and usages
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUILDING.  Includes all other structures of every kind regardless of
similarity to buildings.
      LOT.  Includes the words “tract” and “parcel.”
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      PERSON.  Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, or similar group, as
well as an individual.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory, not discretionary.
      USED FOR.  Includes the phrases “arranged for,” “intended for,”
“maintained for,” and “occupied for.”
   (C)   Any words not defined in §
150.05 shall be construed in their general accepted meaning as defined by
Webster’s Dictionary.
   (D)   Generally, words used in this title are intended to have their common
and ordinary meanings, unless more specifically defined.
(`88 Code, § 8-4)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE.  A subordinate building located on the same lot
with the main building, or a subordinate use of land, either of which is
incidental to the main building or to the principal use of the land.  An
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   A children’s playhouse, garden house, or private greenhouse;
      (2)   A garage, shed, or building for domestic storage;
      (3)   Incinerators incidental to residential use;
      (4)   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot
with any retail, service, or business use, unless that storage is prohibited by
district regulations;
      (5)   Storage of goods used in, or produced by, manufacturing activities
on the same lot or parcel of ground with those activities, unless that storage
is prohibited by district regulations;
      (6)   A non-paying guest house or rooms for guests within an ACCESSORY
BUILDING, if those facilities are used for the occasional housing of guests of
occupants of the principal building and not for permanent occupancy by others
as housekeeping units;
      (7)   Servants’ quarters, if part of an accessory garage and solely for
occupancy by a servant or household employee of the occupants of the principal
dwelling and the family of that servant or employee;
      (8)   Off-street motor vehicle parking area and loading and unloading
facilities;
      (9)   Signs, other than advertising signs, as permitted and regulated in
each district incorporated in this title;
      (10)   Carports;
      (11)   Boat house, if not more than ten feet high as measured from the
normal water level;
      (12)   Swimming pools, if private and being incidental to use by the
owner and guests; and
      (13)   Public utility communication, electric, gas, water, and sewer
lines, their supports, and incidental equipment.
   ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT BUILDING.  A structure used to house equipment for the
operation, maintenance, or repair of a wireless communications tower, including
electronic receiving and relay equipment.
   ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS.  Living quarters within an accessory building for
the sole use of persons employed on the premises, such as quarters having no
kitchen facilities and not rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
   ACREAGE.  Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided and
platted.
   ADD-A-ROOM UNIT.  A unit of manufactured housing, not designed as a part of
the original structure, which may have less occupied space than a manufactured
housing section.
   ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS, OWNER,  or INTERESTED PARTY.  The owners of
record, according to the real estate master file as maintained by the Auditor
of the county, at the time of the filing of the application or petition
involved, of each lot or parcel of real estate located within the jurisdiction
of the Board, abutting the tract of real estate which is the subject of the
application, petition, or matter upon which a public hearing is to be held
before the Board, Plan Commission, or Board of Zoning Appeals.  Adjacent real
estate in this definition shall also include properties which are separated by
a public right-of- way, stream, river, or railroad.
   ADULT BOOK STORE, ENTERTAINMENT CENTER, and/or HEALTH SPA.  A retail
business which sells a variety of items for entertainment expressly for and to
adults aged 18 years and older.  Items for sale could include books, magazines,
pictures, novelties, movies, and videos.  All items intended to appeal to or
arouse a person’s sexual interest.
   ADVERTISING DEVICE.  An advertising sign, billboard, or poster panel which
directs attention to a business, commodity, service, or entertainment not
exclusively related to the premises where the sign is located or to which it is
affixed.  However, this does  not include those advertising signs, billboards,
or poster panels which direct attention to the business on the premises or to a
brand name of a product or commodity with which the business is specifically
identified and which is sold on the premises.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING.  A structure utilized for the dwelling or private
garage.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND USE.  The use of land for the production of animal or
plant life, including forestry, pasturing or yarding livestock, and planting,
growing, cultivating, and harvesting crops for human or livestock consumption.
   AGRICULTURE.  The use of land for agricultural purposes with the intent of
selling any products produced by this type of activities.  AGRICULTURAL USES
include farming, dairying, pasturage, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses
for packing, treating, or storing the products; provided, however, that:
      (1)   The operation of any accessory uses shall be secondary to that of
the normal agricultural activities;
      (2)   The above uses shall not include the feeding or sheltering of
animals or poultry in penned enclosures within 500 feet of any residential
district; and
      (3)   The agricultural use does not include the operation or maintenance
of a commercial stockyard or feedlot (confined feeding operation).
   ALLEY.  A public right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk, or
easement, and usually less than 30 feet wide, which normally affords a
secondary means of access for the special accommodation of the abutting
property.
   ALTERATION.  Any change, addition, or modification in construction, or any
change in the structural members of a building, such as load bearing walls,
columns, beams, or girders.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM.  An approved system of straps, cables, turnbuckles,
chains, ties, or other approved materials used to secure a manufactured or
mobile home.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL.  A building, lot structure, or enclosure, or portion
thereof, designed or used for the care, observation, or treatment of three or
more dogs, cats, and other domestic animals.  An ANIMAL HOSPITAL is operated
by, or the treatment therein is under the direct supervision of, a veterinarian
licensed to practice by the state.
   ANSI/NFPA 501: A STANDARD FOR INSTALLATION OF (MANUFACTURED) MOBILE HOMES. 
Model national standards (including all authorized successor documents) for
installation of manufactured and mobile homes, as adopted and copyrighted by
the National Fire Protection Association and the Manufactured Housing
Institute.
   APARTMENT.  One or more rooms, including sleeping, living, lavatory, and
principal kitchen facilities, designed as a unit for occupancy by only one
family, of which two or more units exist in a building.  An APARTMENT would not
include a single-family residence unless the residence is divided into two
separate residential units.
   APPLICANT.  The owner of land, or his or her representative, which is
proposed to be subdivided or rezoned or for which a variance is sought.
   APPROVED.  Acceptable to the appropriate authority having jurisdiction, by
reason of investigation, accepted principles, or tests by nationally recognized
organizations.
   ARCADE.  A commercial recreation business, usually conducted indoors, which
provides mechanical and/or electronic games for entertainment.
   AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY or CAR WASH.  A commercial building, or portion thereof,
containing facilities for washing vehicles or other items using production line
methods, or other mechanical devices including the use of steam cleaning or
high pressure equipment.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. 
      (1)   MAJOR.  Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning; trailers;
collision service; body, frame, or fender straightening or repair; and overall
painting of vehicles.
      (2)   MINOR.  Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and motor service
to motor vehicles, but not including any operation included above under
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.  A building, or portion thereof, or premises
used for dispensing or offering for sale at retail, gasoline when stored only
in underground tanks, kerosene, lubrication oil, or grease, for operation of
automobiles, and where tires, batteries, and similar automobile accessories may
be offered for sale on the premises at retail, including minor services and
installation customarily incidental thereto, and facilities other than an
automobile laundry, for washing cars, only if enclosed in a building. 
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS do not include OPEN SALES LOTS as defined herein.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD.  See JUNK YARD.
   AWNING.  A roof-like structure which projects from the wall of a building.
   BASEMENT or CELLAR.  A story partly or wholly underground, but having more
than one-half of its clear height below finished grade.  If more than one-half
its clear height is above grade, it shall be considered a story for the
purposes of height measurement.
   BED AND BREAKFAST, LODGING HOUSE, or TOURIST HOME.  A residential building,
or portion thereof, (other than a hotel, apartment hotel, or motel) containing
lodging rooms for accommodation of five or more persons who are not members of
the keeper’s family and where lodging and/or meals are provided by pre-
arrangement, for definite periods of time and for compensation.
   BLOCK.  A tract of land bounded by streets or by a street or streets and any
combination of boundary lines or public or institutionally owned lands,
railroad rights-of-way, rivers and lakes, and other lines of demarcation.
   BOARDING HOUSE.  A building, not available to transients, in which meals and
lodging are regularly provided for compensation for at least three but not more
than 30 persons.
   BOND.  Any form of security, including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit, in an amount and form
satisfactory to the Commission.  All bonds shall be approved by the Commission
whenever a bond is required by these regulations.
   BUFFER.  A landscaped or naturally vegetated area established or managed to
provide separation between adjacent land uses.
   BUILDING.  A structure built for the support, enclosure, shelter, or
protection of persons, animals, or chattels, or affixed to the land.
      (1)   BUILDING, DETACHED.  A building, surrounded by open space on the
same lot with no structural attachment to another structure.
      (2)   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.  The main or dominant building in which is
conducted the principal use of the lot on which the building is located.
      (3)   BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL.  A building which is arranged, designed,
used, or intended to be used for residential occupancy by one or more families
or lodgers and which includes, but is not limited to, the following types:
         (a)   Single-family detached dwellings;
         (b)   Two-family dwellings;
         (c)   Single-family or two-family attached and semi-detached dwellings
developed initially under single ownership or unified control; and
         (d)   Multiple-family dwellings.
      (4)   BUILDING, SEMI-DETACHED.  A building having one party wall in
common with an adjacent building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.  The vertical distance from the curb level to the highest
point of the undersides of the ceiling beams in the case of a flat roof, to the
deck line of a mansard roof, and to the mean level of the underside of the
rafters between the eaves and the ridge of a gable, hip, or gambrel roof. 
Chimneys, spires, towers, elevator penthouses, tanks, and similar projections
other than signs shall not be included in calculating the height.
   BUILDING LINE.  A line across a lot behind which any building or structure,
including eaves, porches, or steps, must be constructed to allow for minimum
setbacks.
   BUILDING PERMIT.  An official document or certification issued by the
building official authorizing performance of a specified activity that complies
with all provisions of this title and the county Building Code.
   BULK.  The cubic content of a building in relation to the area of the
building site.
   BUS LOT.  Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of passenger
buses or motor coaches or the loading or unloading of passengers from these
vehicles.
   BUSINESS.  An occupation, employment, or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor, and materials, or wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold,
or where services are offered.
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT.  A place of business carrying on operations, the
ownership and management of which are separate and distinct from those of any
other place of business located on the same lot.  Direct access to each
BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT shall be separate and distinct from access to any other
BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT, and in no case shall there be access to one
establishment from within another establishment. 
   CARPORT.  An open-sided roofed automobile shelter, formed by the extension
of a roof from the side of a building.
   CEMETERY.  Land used or intended to be used for the burial of human or
animal dead and dedicated for CEMETERY purposes, including crematories,
mausoleums, and mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the
boundaries of a CEMETERY for which perpetual care and maintenance is provided.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.  A document issued by the proper authority that
the plans for a proposed use meet all applicable codes and regulations.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.  A certificate stating that the occupancy and the
use of land or a building or structure referred to therein complies with the
provisions of this title, and any other ordinance adopted by the county
relating to a building code.
   CHURCH.  A building used for public worship where regular organized services
are held.
   CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL.  A building, or portion thereof, the principal
use of which is for medical or dental study and/or treatment and in which the
services of at least two professionals in the medical or dental fields of
practice are provided.
   CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE.  A private association of persons who are bonafide
members paying annual dues, which owns, hires, or leases a building, or portion
thereof, the use of the premises being restricted to members and their guests. 
      (1)   The affairs and management of a PRIVATE CLUB OR LODGE are conducted
by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the
members. 
      (2)   It shall be permissible to serve food on the premises. 
      (3)   The sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall
be permitted provided it is secondary and incidental to the promotion of some
other common objective of the organization.
   CLUSTER SUBDIVISION.  A form of development that permits a reduction in lot
area and bulk requirements, provided there is no increase in the number of lots
permitted under a conventional subdivision or increase in the overall density
of development, and the remaining land area is devoted to open space, active
recreation, preservation of environmentally sensitive areas, or agriculture.
   CO-LOCATION.  The use of a wireless telecommunications facility by more than
one wireless communications provider.
   COMMISSION’S SEAL.  The official seal of the Plan Commission.
   COMMISSIONER.  The county Building Commissioner.
   COMMITMENTS.  Restrictions and guidelines placed upon a property’s use or
development.  COMMITMENTS shall be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder and take effect upon adoption of an amendment to
Chapter 157 of this code of ordinances or upon granting approval for a special
exception, contingent use, or variance from the terms of
Chapter 157.
   COMMON TIE OF OWNERSHIP.  May involve separate ownership by family members,
shareholders, business partners, corporations, or any other legal entity to
develop under a common scheme or plan.
   COMPACT HOME OR MODULAR HOME.  A manufactured structure, designed for
permanent occupancy, 24 feet or more wide and 40 feet or more long, and meeting
the minimum square footage requirement of the district in which it is placed,
with  the four outside walls supported by a permanent foundation and
accompanied by a certificate of compliance furnished by the state.
   CONDITIONAL USE.  A use permitted in a particular zoning district upon
showing that this use in a specified location will comply with all the
conditions and standards for the location or operation of the use as specified
in
Chapter 157 of this code of ordinances and authorized by the approving agency.
   CONDOMINIUM.  Ownership in common with others of a parcel of land and
certain parts of a building thereon which would normally be used by all the
occupants, such as yards, foundation, basements, floors, walls, hallways,
stairways, elevators, and all other related common elements, together with
individual ownership in fee of a particular unit or portion of the building.
   CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION.  Any time 300 or more cattle, 600 or more swine
or sheep, or 30,000 or more fowl are housed (or penned) and fed in a confined
area.
   CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.  Any building or structure which:
      (1)   Complies with all the regulations of this title or of any amendment
hereto governing the zoning district in which the building or structure is
located; and
      (2)   Is designed or intended for a conforming use.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN.  The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat,
showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the Commission as a condition of the
approval of the plat.
   CONTRACTOR.  Any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of
general contractor, roofing, insulation, electrical, plumbing, sewage, well
installation, heating, ventilation, air  conditioning, or other ancillary
contracting in the county, excepting those individuals doing work on their own
residence.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY.  A trafficway, including freeways, expressways,
and other arterial streets, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting
property or lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from
the same, except at those points only and in that manner as may be determined
by the public authority having jurisdiction over that trafficway.
   CORNER LOT.  A lot at the junction of and abutting two intersecting or
intercepting streets.
   COURT.  An open unoccupied space bounded on two or more sides by the
exterior walls of a building or by exterior walls and lot lines.
   CREATION.  A human activity bringing a wetland into existence at a site in
which it did not formerly exist.
   CURB LEVEL.  The level of the established curb in front of the building
measured at the center of the front.  Where no CURB LEVEL has been established,
the pavement elevation at the street center line similarly measured, or the
mean elevation of the finished lot grade immediately adjacent to a building,
shall be considered the CURB LEVEL.
   DEVELOPER.  Any person engaged in developing or improving a lot or group of
lots or structures thereon for use or occupancy.
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any improvement or change to property brought about by human
activity (man-made), including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or any
addition to a building valued at more than $1,000;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements,  and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; and
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood waters or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
buildings.
   DEVELOPMENT REGULATION.  Any zoning, subdivision, site plan, official map,
floodplain regulation, or other governmental regulation that affects the use
and intensity of land development.
   DISTRICT.  A geographical area within which certain uniform regulations and
requirements or various combinations thereof apply under the provisions of this
title.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT.  An establishment which offers merchandise, service,
or entertainment to persons in motor vehicles.
   DRIVEWAY.  A private access road serving only one residential dwelling or
commercial building.
   DRIVEWAY ROADCUT.  An entrance into or across a county road.
   DWELLING.  A permanent building, or portion thereof, designed or used
exclusively for residential occupancy, including single-family DWELLINGS, two-
family DWELLINGS, and multiple-family DWELLINGS, but not including hotels or
lodging houses.  Such building must be at least 23 feet wide and have 950
square feet of living space excluding basements, breezeways, porches and
garages.
      (1)   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.  A building containing three or more
dwelling units.
      (2)   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY OR SINGLE-FAMILY.  A building containing one
dwelling unit only.
      (3)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A building containing two dwelling units
only.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   EASEMENT.  An authorization or grant by a property owner to specific
purposes.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION or SCHOOL.  A facility in which is conducted the
process of teaching and developing the knowledge, skills, mind, character, and
the like, of individuals, especially by formal education.  These include:
      (1)   DAY OR NURSERY SCHOOL. Provides day care services for children;
      (2)   HIGHER EDUCATION.  A college or university;
      (3)   PAROCHIAL SCHOOL. Maintained and operated by a religious
organization;
      (4)   PRIVATE SCHOOL. Not intended for, open to, or controlled by the
public;
      (5)   PUBLIC SCHOOL. An elementary or secondary school that is a part of
the system of  schools maintained by public taxes and supervised by municipal,
county, and/or state authorities; and
      (6)   TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. Teaching and training directed toward
specific vocations.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT.  A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room exclusive
of bathroom, hallway, closets, or kitchen and dining alcove directly off the
principal room.
   EROSION.  The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments
by water, wind, ice, or gravity.
   EROSION CONTROL MEASURE.  A practice or a combination of practices to
control erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   EROSION CONTROL PLAN.  A written description of pertinent information
concerning erosion control measures designed to meet the requirements of this
title as submitted by the applicant for review and approval by the county Plan
Commission.
   EXCEPTION.  Permission to depart from the design standards in this title.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of this code.
   EXPANDO UNIT.  An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which manufactured homes are to be affixed,  including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
   FACILITY COMPOUND.  The area of a parcel on which wireless communications
facilities such as towers and accessory equipment buildings are located.
   FAMILY.  One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related to the other by blood, marriage, or adoption, no
FAMILY shall contain over five persons.  A FAMILY may include not more than two
roomers, boarders, or permanent guests whether or not gratuitous.
   FARM.  An area of ten or more acres used for agricultural operations
including truck gardening,  forestry, tree or plant nursery, or the production
and/or keeping of livestock and poultry.
   FARM/HOBBY.  A parcel of land less than 50 acres in size used primarily as a
residential lot whereon some crops or animals may be raised or kept for
pleasure and not used as a primary source for income.
   FBFM.  Flood Boundary and Floodway Map.
   FEASIBILITY STUDY.  A written report prepared by a registered engineer,
certified planner, or registered land surveyor pertaining to the suitability of
the site for various types of water and sewer systems, for drainage retention/
detention or disbursement, and the sub-soil conditions for various methods of
street construction.
   FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION.  For the purpose of this title, the
administrative office of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FEEDER STREET.  A street designed to facilitate the collection of traffic
from local streets and to provide circulation within neighborhood areas and
convenient ways to reach secondary streets.
   FEEDLOTS.  The confinement for any period of time of livestock or fowl,
whether open or enclosed,  to any area less than required as described in
Appendix A of this chapter.
   FEMA.  Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FHBM.  Flood Hazard Boundary Map.
   FILL MATERIAL.  Any solid material, when placed in a wetland or lake, that
displaces water or reduces water holding capacity.
   FIRM.  Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLOOD or FLOODWATER.  A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation or the run-off of surface waters from any source,
including the water of any lake or watercourse which is above the banks and/or
outside the channel and banks of the watercourse.
   FLOOD DISTRICTS.  Floodplain (FP), floodway (FW), and flood fringe (FF)
districts established under I.C. 4-28-1 et seq.  The degree of protection
established is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
engineering and scientific considerations.
      (1)   FLOOD FRINGE (FF) DISTRICT.  Areas subject to potential flood
damage but outside an identified floodway (FW) district.
      (2)   FLOODPLAIN (FP) DISTRICT.  Areas for which detailed flood data has
not been provided.
      (3)   FLOODWAY (FW) DISTRICT.  Areas identified as a floodway.
   FLOOD FRINGE.  Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  Any floodplain (FP), floodway (FW), or flood fringe (FF)
district, or any  combination thereof, which is subject to inundation by the
regulatory flood, or any floodplain (FP) district as delineated by Zone A on a
FHBM.
   FLOOD PROOFED BUILDING.  A commercial or industrial building designed to
exclude floodwaters from the interior of that building.  All flood proofing
shall be adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact
and uplift forces, and other factors associated with the regulatory flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE or FPG.  The elevation of the lowest floor of a
building or structure.  If a basement is included, the basement floor is
considered the lowest floor.  Exception:  If a commercial or industrial
building is flood proofed as herein defined, the term FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE
applies to the water surface elevation for which the building is protected. 
The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two feet at any given location in
the SFHA.
   FLOODPLAIN.  The relatively flat or low land, including any wetland, lake,
or watercourse, adjoining the channel of a river or stream which has been or
may be covered by floodwater.  The FLOODPLAIN includes the channel, floodway,
and flood fringe, as described below in this definition, and is so designated
by the Federal Insurance Administration and/or the state Department of Natural
Resources.
      (1)   CHANNEL.  The bed of a stream or waterway.
      (2)   FLOOD FRINGE.  The area adjoining a river or stream which has been
or which may hereafter be flooded, but outside an identified floodway (FW)
district, and is so designated by the Federal Insurance Administration and/or
the Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplain adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and
discharge the floodwater or flood flow of any river or stream.  The state
Department of Natural Resources exercises primary jurisdiction in FLOODWAY (FW)
districts.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOOR AREA.  For the purpose of determining the floor area ratio, the FLOOR
AREA of a building is the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls
or from the center line of the wall separating two buildings. 
      (1)   The FLOOR AREA of a building shall include the basement when more
than one-half of the basement height is above the established curb level, or
above the finished lot grade level, when the curb level has not been
established; elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor; floor space used for
mechanical equipment (open or enclosed); penthouse; attic space having head
room of seven feet, ten inches or more; interior balconies or mezzanines;
enclosed porches; and floor area devoted to accessory uses. 
      (2)   However, any space devoted to off- street parking or loading shall
not be included in the determination of FLOOR AREA.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO or F.A.R.  The floor area of the building or buildings on a
given zoning lot divided by the area of that zoning lot.
   FOSTER CARE HOME.  As defined by the state Department of Social Service,
homes which provide congregate living arrangements for non-family members.  The
categories of FOSTER CARE HOMES are given in
Appendix B of this chapter.
   FOUNDATION SIDING OR SKIRTING.  A type of wainscoting constructed of fire
and weather resistant material, such as aluminum, asbestos board, treated
pressed wood, or other approved materials enclosing the entire undercarriage of
the manufactured or mobile home.
   FRONT LOT LINE.  With respect to the relationship between property and the
street:
      (1)   For an interior and through lot, the line marking the boundary
between the lot and the abutting street; or
      (2)   For a corner lot, the line marking the boundary between the lot and
the shorter of the two abutting street segments.
   FRONT YARD.  A yard that is bounded by the front line of the principal
buildings, by the adjacent street right-of-way, and by the segments of side lot
lines that they intercept.
   FRONTAGE (OF A BLOCK).  All of the property abutting a street or the space
between a building and the street.
   FRONTAGE (OF A LOT).  All of the property of the lot fronting on a street,
road, or highway as measured between the side lot lines and as measured along
the front boundary line unless a public right-of- way easement exists, then
along the easement line of the parcel or lot.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE.  An accessory building or an accessory portion of the
principal building, including a carport, which is intended for or used for
storing the private passenger vehicles of the family or families resident upon
the premises.  No business, service, or industry connected directly or
indirectly with the automotive vehicles is carried on.  GARAGES for single-
family dwellings shall be limited to four spaces, and shall not exceed 1,200
square feet in floor area, nor shall a GARAGE exceed in floor area the floor
area of a principal building.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC.  Any building where automotive vehicles are painted,
repaired, rebuilt, reconstructed, or stored for compensation.
   GARAGE, STORAGE.  A building or premises used for housing only of motor
vehicles, RVs, boats, or other vehicular equipment pursuant to previous
arrangements and not being transients; and where no equipment or parts are
sold, and vehicles are not rebuilt, serviced, repaired, hired, or sold, except
that fuel, grease, or oil may be dispensed within the building to vehicles
stored therein.
   GRADE.  The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building or structure.
   GREENBELT.  A zone of tree or treelike plantings not less than 15 feet in
width. 
      (1)   Width will be dependent on the plantings used.  Planting will be of
at least three rows of conifers alternately planted to create a living green
screen reaching 12 feet in height within seven years of planting.  Alternately,
two rows of conifers and a single exterior row of deciduous trees may be used
alternately planted and the deciduous trees attaining the height of 20 feet
within seven years of planting.  The conifer plantings must be planted to allow
interlocking branches within seven years of planting.  Deciduous trees must be
planted to start the interlocking of branches within ten years.
      (2)   The GREENBELT is intended to be a continuous living screen.  All
plantings must be replaced or maintained as needed or necessary to provide a
continuous screen from no less than one foot above the ground to at least 12
feet in height.  Each successor in interest shall be responsible for the
maintenance of the GREENBELT.
   GREENBELT, NATURAL.  A strip of land kept in its natural or undeveloped
state or in agricultural use, which serves to separate adjacent land uses.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA.  The area of a building in square feet, as measured in a
horizontal plane at the ground floor level within the largest outside
dimensions, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages, and
exterior stairways.
   HIGHWAY, LIMITED ACCESS.  A freeway, or expressway, providing a trafficway
for through traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting
property or lands and other persons have no legal right to access to or from
the same, except at those points and in that manner as may be determined by the
public authority having jurisdiction over that trafficway.
   HOME BUSINESS.  For example, a beauty shop, photo studio or processing, or
welding service.  A business located within a dwelling or accessory building
and where success of the business is subject to the public entering the
dwelling or accessory building to receive services on a regular continuing
basis and/or where modifications or alterations may be required in order to
conduct the business.  The provisions (1) through (5) inclusive under the
definition of home occupation or professional office which follows shall be
met.
   HOME OCCUPATION OR PROFESSIONAL OFFICE.  For example, a desktop publisher,
graphic artist, or telephone solicitor.  An occupation or professional office
which is located within a dwelling or accessory building but not subject to the
public entering the dwelling or accessory building to receive services on a
regular, continuing basis.  The following provisions shall be met:
      (1)   No person, other than members of the family residing on the
premises, shall be engaged in this endeavor.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for this endeavor shall be clearly
incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and no more than 25% of the combined floor area of the dwelling unit
and accessory buildings shall be used in the conduct of the endeavor.
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
and premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of the endeavor other
than one sign, not exceeding one square foot in area, non-illuminated, and
mounted flat against the wall of the building, dwelling, or accessory building.
      (4)   No traffic shall be generated by the endeavor in greater volume
than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and the need for
parking generated by the conduct of the endeavor shall meet the off-street
parking requirements as specified in this title, and shall not be located in a
required front yard.
      (5)   No equipment or process shall be used in the endeavor which creates
noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference detectable
off the lot, if the endeavor is conducted in a single-family residence, or
outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other than a single-family
residence.  In the case of electrical interference, no equipment or process
shall be used which creates visual or audible interference in any audio or
television receivers off the premises or causes fluctuations in the line
voltage off the premises.
   HOSPITAL.  A facility where the ill or injured may receive medical,
surgical, or psychiatric treatment, nursing, food, lodging, and the like,
during illness.
   HOTEL, MOTEL, or APARTMENT HOTEL.  A building in which lodging or boarding
and lodging are provided and offered to the public for compensation.  Thus, it
is open to the public in contradistinction to a rooming house, boarding house,
lodging house, or dormitory, which is herein separately defined.
   HYDRIC SOIL.  A soil that is saturated, flooded, or otherwise covered with
water long enough during the growing season to develop deficiencies in oxygen
as a result of excessive water content.
   HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION.  Plant life growing in water or a substrate that is
at least periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of excessive water
content.
   IMPACT FEE.  A fee imposed on a development to help finance the cost of
improvements or services.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.  A permit stating that the proposed erection,
construction, enlargement, or moving of a building or structure referred to
therein complies with the provisions of the Master Plan.
   INCOMPATIBLE USE.  A use or service which is incapable of direct association
with certain other uses because it is contradictory or incongruous.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system, or any other approved sewage treatment device.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE FACILITY.  Any facility used for the storage,
transportation, reclamation, or disposal of any waste classified as hazardous
or toxic by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   INDUSTRY, HEAVY.  Manufacturing, processing, assembling, storing, testing,
and similar industrial uses which are generally major operations and extensive
in character; which require large sites, open storage and service areas,
extensive services and facilities, and ready access to regional transportation;
and which normally generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise, vibration,
dust, glare, air pollution, and water pollution, but not beyond the district
boundary.  Waste is limited to wastes other than those classified as hazardous
or toxic by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   INDUSTRY, LIGHT.  Manufacturing or other industrial uses which are usually
controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet, and free of objectionable or
hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor, or dust; operating and storing
within enclosed structures; and generating little industrial traffic and no
nuisances.  Waste disposal is limited to wastes other than those classified as
hazardous or toxic by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   IN-KIND.  The restoration or creation of a wetland with vegetation and other
characteristics closely approximating those of a specific wetland.
   INTERESTED PARTY.  The interested parties shall include, but are not limited
to, the appellant and the county’s zoning official or body whose order,
decision, or determination is being appealed, the applicant for the relief
being sought, and adjacent property owners.  This also includes any individual
who addresses the Board favoring or opposed to a matter before the Board, Plan
Commission, or Board of Zoning Appeals.
   INTERIOR LOT.  A lot other than a corner lot or a through lot.
   JUNK YARD.  An open area where waste or used materials are bought, sold,
exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled.  The waste and used
materials include, but are not limited to:  motor vehicles; vehicles,
machinery, or equipment drawn or operated by attaching to motor vehicles or
mechanical units which are not in running or operable condition; scrap iron and
other metals; paper, rags, rubber tires, and bottles; but it does not include
residential, commercial, or municipal garbage, which is defined as animal,
vegetable, or mineral refuse.  A JUNK YARD does not include uses established
entirely within enclosed buildings, nor does it include an establishment
engaged only in the processing of scrap iron or other metals to be sold
specifically for the manufacture of steel or metal alloys, which must have
fencing to effectively screen the area.
   JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION.  The unincorporated territory of the county.
   KENNEL.  Any premises, or portion thereof, on which more than four dogs,
cats, or other household domestic animals over four months of age are kept, or
on which more than two of these animals are maintained, boarded, bred, or cared
for, in return for remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of sale.
   LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL.  A facility devoted to experimental study, testing,
or analysis.  Manufacturing, assembly, or packaging of products shall not be
conducted within this facility.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY.  Any man- made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting, and
grading.  In the context of this title, it includes only non-agricultural LAND
DISTURBING ACTIVITIES on sites which also require a local improvement location
permit or an approved subdivision plat.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT or LOMA.  An amendment to the currently effective
FEMA map  that establishes that a property is not located in a Special Flood
Hazard Area (SFHA).  A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION or LOMR.  An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map.  It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE OFF- STREET.  An open, hard-surfaced area of
land other than a street or public way, which is principally used for the
standing, loading, and unloading of motor trucks, tractors, and trailers to
avoid undue interference with the public use of streets and alleys.  That space
shall be not less than ten feet in width, 45 feet in length and 14 feet in
height, exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space.
   LODGER or ROOMER.  Any person, not the principal tenant or a family member
of the principal tenant, who resides in a living unit and who pays remuneration
to the principal tenant, as distinguished from a guest who does not pay
remuneration to the principal tenant.
   LODGING ROOM.  A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom.  In a suite of
rooms without cooking facilities, each room which provides sleeping
accommodations shall be counted as one LODGING ROOM for the purpose of this
title.
   LOT. 
      (1)   A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage, and area and to provide yards and other open
spaces as are herein required. 
      (2)   A LOT shall have frontage on a public street, or on an approved
private street, and, provided that in no case of division shall any residual
LOT or parcel be created which does not meet the requirements of this title, a
LOT may consist of:
         (a)   A single LOT of record;
         (b)   A portion of a LOT of record;
         (c)   A combination of complete LOTS of record, of complete LOTS of
record and portions of LOTS of record, or of portions of LOTS of record; or
         (d)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds.
      (3)   LOT, CORNER.  A lot situated at the intersection of two streets,
the interior angle of that intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.  (The
narrowest part of a lot having frontage on a street is the front of the lot.)
      (4)   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.  A lot, other than a corner lot, which fronts
on two streets.
      (5)   LOT, REVERSED CORNER.  A corner lot where the side lot line
adjoining a street is substantially a continuation of the front line of an
adjacent interior lot.
      (6)   LOT, THROUGH.  A lot having frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.  (Both street lines shall be
deemed front lot lines.)
      (7)   LOT, ZONING.  A single tract of land located within a single block,
which (at the time of filing for a building permit) is designated by its owner
or developer as a tract to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit, under
single ownership or unified control.  A ZONING LOT may or may not coincide with
a lot of record.
   LOT AREA, GROSS.  The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side
and rear lot lines, but not including any area occupied by the waters of a
lake, river, floodplain area, or retention or detention business area, and not
including that portion of a lot in use as, or to be used as, a street,
retention, or detention area.
   LOT COVERAGE.  The percentage of the lot area that is represented by the
building area.
   LOT DEPTH.  The average distance between the front lot line and the rear lot
line of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT.  The boundary of a lot which is along an existing or
dedicated public street or, where no public street exists, is along a public
way.  Where that public way is not a dedicated street, the right-of-way of the
public way shall be deemed to be 66 feet or more, unless otherwise provided.
   LOT LINE, REAR.  The boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is,
or is most nearly, parallel to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE.  Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot
line.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder, or a parcel of land,
described by metes and bounds, the deed to which was recorded in the office of
the Recorder prior to the adoption of this title.
   LOT WIDTH.  The distance between the side lot lines of a lot measured at the
building line.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the basement floor;
      (2)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the building;
      (3)   The top of the first floor or of the buildings elevated by pilings
or constructed on a crawl space with permanent openings; and
      (4)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
floodwaters, unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters, by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet of enclosed
area subject to flooding.  The bottom of all these openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade; and
         (b)   The enclosed space shall be usable for the parking of vehicles
and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A dwelling unit (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-96), designed
and built in a factory, which bears a seal certifying that it was built in
compliance with the federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Law, and certified by the state.  The MANUFACTURED HOME shall be
constructed after January 1, 1981, classified as residential design, and exceed
950 square feet of occupied space, and exceed 23 feet in width, exclusive of
porches, terraces, garages, pull-out, and expansion rooms.  Also, a structure,
transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis
and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached to
the required utilities.  The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.  A parcel of land platted for subdivision
according to all requirements of the comprehensive plan, designed or intended
for lots to be conveyed by deed to individual owners for residential occupancy
primarily by manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARD CODES.  Title VI of
the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 USC 5401 et seq.), as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder (including information supplied
by the home manufacturer, which has been stamped and approved by a Design
Approval Primary Inspection Agency, an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules), and regulations and
interpretations of that code by the state Administrative Building Council; all
of which became effective for mobile and manufactured home construction on June
15, 1976.
   MARQUEE or CANOPY.  A roof-like structure of a permanent nature which
projects from the wall of a building.
   MASTER PLAN or COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  The complete long range plan, or any of
its parts, for the zoning growth and development of the county.  The term
includes any parts thereof, constituting the title and chapters, and prepared
by the Commission and adopted in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4 as it is, or may
hereafter be, in effect.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION.  Includes mining, quarrying, and removal of earth
materials.
   MOBILE HOME.  A detached transportable structure larger than 320 square feet
and designed to be used as a single-family residential dwelling with all of the
following characteristics:
      (1)   Certified in a factory and fabricated to the standards outlined in
I.C. 20-12-5 et seq. pursuant to I.C. 9-20-12-1;
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheel; and
      (3)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete, including the major appliances, and ready for occupancy, except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation
supports, connection to the utilities, and the like.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  Any parcel or tract of land licensed and registered under
provisions of I.C. 16-41-27 et seq. under the control of any persons, upon
which three or more occupied mobile homes are harbored on a continual or non-
recreational basis, or which is offered to the public for that purpose,
regardless of whether a charge is made therefor, together with any building,
structure, enclosure, street, equipment, or facility used or intended for use
incident to the harboring or occupancy of mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION.  A subdivision as defined by the state Subdivision
Control  Act, being Act 288 of the Public Acts of 1967, as amended, which has
been expressly established for the sole purpose of selling lots on which mobile
homes may be used and occupied for residential purposes, and which has been
established in full compliance with all applicable provisions of the
aforementioned act and of all other applicable state, county, and city
regulations.
   MOBILE HOME TIE DOWNS.  Sufficient anchorage to resist flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement of any mobile home.  At a minimum, this anchorage shall
consist of:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties to be provided at each of the four corners of the
mobile home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations, with
mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring only one additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties to be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with mobile homes less than 50
feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system to be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Additions to the mobile home to be similarly anchored.
   MODULAR HOME.  A housing unit designed, built, and certified in a factory to
I.C. 22-12-2 through 22-12-5 for use as a principal residence.  It is to be
constructed complete with the necessary plumbing, heating, and electrical
systems.  It is designed to be transported by means other than its own
undercarriage to a prepared site, and becomes suitable for permanent occupancy
after proper installation of foundation supports and connection to utility
service.
   MONOPOLE.  A support structure constructed of a single, self-supporting
hollow metal tube securely anchored to a foundation.
   MOTEL.  A building or group of buildings containing rooms intended or
designed to be used or which are used, rented, or leased to be occupied or
which are occupied for sleeping purposes and which is open to transient guests,
in contradistinction to a boarding or lodging house.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  A passenger vehicle, truck, truck-trailer, or semi-trailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
   NATIONAL WETLANDS INVENTORY or NWI.  A series of maps produced by the Fish
and Wildlife Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior, in coordination
with the maps produced by the U.S. Geologic Survey, showing the location and
classification of certain identified wetlands in standard topographic areas.
   NATURAL HIGH WATER STORAGE CAPACITY.  The maximum volume of water a wetland
can contain up to its ordinary high water mark without alterations to its
natural grade or contour.
   NATURAL RESOURCES, DEPARTMENT OF, or DNR.  The Department of Natural
Resources of the state.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home subdivision
or park for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homesare to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of this code.
   NON-ACCESS EASEMENT.  A public easement along a public right-of-way across
which access to the property is not permitted.
   NON-AGRICULTURAL LAND USE.  The commercial use of land for the manufacturing
and wholesale, or retail sale, of goods or services; residential or
institutional use of land intended  primarily to shelter people; highway use of
land including lanes, alleys, and streets, and other land uses not included
under agricultural land use.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.  A building or structure, or portion
of a structure, existing at the effective date of this code, or subsequent
amendment thereto, that could not be built under the terms of this title by
reasons of restrictions on lot size, height, yards, location on the lot, or
other requirements concerning the structure.
   NON-CONFORMING USE.  A use of land, buildings, or structures which does not
comply with all of the regulations of this title or of any amendment hereto
governing use for the zoning district in which that use is located.
   NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIALS.  Matter or material which is capable of causing
injury to living organisms by chemical reaction or is capable of causing
detrimental effects upon the physical or economic well-being of individuals.
   NURSERY or NURSING HOME.  A home or facility for the care and treatment of
babies, children, pensioners, or elderly people.
   NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS.  Land, buildings, structures, or the combination
thereof for the storage, cultivation, or transplanting of live trees, shrubs,
or plants offered for retail sale on the premises including products used for
gardening and landscaping.
   OCCUPANCY PERMIT.  A required permit allowing the use of a building or
structure after it has been determined that all the requirements of applicable
ordinances have been met.
   ODOROUS MATTER.  Matter or material that yields an odor which is offensive
in any way.
   OFFICES, DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, and COMMISSION, COUNTY.  The following
offices, departments, boards, and commission of the county are referred to in
this title.
      (1)   ASSESSOR.  The County ASSESSOR advises and instructs all township
assessors in the county as to their duties.  The ASSESSOR also serves as the
reviewer of all returns made by the township assessor and has the same powers
as the same.  The duties of the county inheritance tax appraiser is also the
responsibility of the County ASSESSOR.
      (2)   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.  The County BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
(hereinafter called “the Board”), in general, is the executive branch of county
government and thus is responsible for the administration of all county
business and may enact ordinances and take other actions as provided to the
Board by state statute.
      (3)   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS or BZA.  The advisory BOARD OF ZONING
APPEALS (hereinafter called “the BZA”) has the duty to hear and determine
appeals on orders, requirements, or decisions made in connection with
Chapter 157 of this code of ordinances and is authorized to grant variances and
special exceptions from the code.
      (4)   BUILDING COMMISSIONER.  The Secretary of the Plan Commission and
Board of Zoning Appeals oversees the operation of the Building Department and
is responsible for insuring the enforcement of county zoning and subdivision
ordinances, building standards, and compliance with related planning
requirements, and issues and approves building permits.
      (5)   ENGINEER.  The County ENGINEER performs engineering services for
the county, including:  highways, bridges, traffic safety, sanitation and
pollution control, and subdivision development control.
      (6)   HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  The agency and person designated to administer
the health regulations for the county.  The county HEALTH DEPARTMENT, managed
by a seven-member Board of Health appointed by the County Board of
Commissioners and the Health Officer appointed by the Board of Health; all
appointments subject to approval and certification by the state Board of
Health.  County HEALTH DEPARTMENTS have jurisdiction over the entire county but
are subordinate to the state Board of Health.
      (7)   PLAN COMMISSION.  The advisory PLAN COMMISSION (hereinafter called
“the Commission”), has jurisdiction within the unincorporated area of the
county and has the following duties:  to formulate and recommend the adoption
of plans for the conservation of resources and community betterment,
participate in the preparation of a comprehensive plan for the development of
the county, approve proposed subdivisions, authorize the preparation of county
road maps, and administer Chapter 157 of this code.
      (8)   RECORDER.  The chief function of the County RECORDER is that of
preserving public records, including deeds, mortgages, bankruptcy notices, and
the like.
      (9)   SURVEYOR.  The primary duties of the County SURVEYOR are to survey
and keep records of all section corners throughout the county and supervise all
civil engineering work of the county, including construction and maintenance of
all drains and ditches, highways, bridges, and culverts, unless these duties
are specifically assigned to the County Highway Superintendent by the County
Board of Commissioners.
   OFFICIAL THOROUGHFARE PLAN.  The part of the Master Plan, now or hereafter
adopted, which includes a major street and highway plan and sets forth the
location, alignment, dimensions, identification, and classification of existing
and proposed streets, highways, and other thoroughfares. See Appendix D.
   OFF-SITE.  Restoration or creation of a wetland at a location not adjacent
to, or within 25 feet of, a previous wetland.
   ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE, INDIANA.  The nationally-recognized model
building code prepared by the Council of American Building Officials, adopted
by the state Administrative Building  Council (ABC) as mandated through P.L.
360, Acts of 1971, and which includes those supplements and amendments
promulgated by the ABC.
   OPEN SALES LOT (YARD, GARAGE, ROADSIDE, or SIMILAR).  Land used or occupied
for the purpose of buying or selling merchandise stored or displayed out-of-
doors.  The merchandise includes, but is not limited to, passenger cars,
trucks, motor scooters, motorcycles, boats, and monuments.
   OPEN USE.  The use of a lot without a building, or else a use for which a
building, with a floor area no larger than 5% of the lot, is only incidental.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK.  In wetlands, a mark delineating permanent or
periodic inundation or prolonged soil saturation sufficient to create
conditions that support hydrophytic vegetation and include hydric soils.
   OUT-OF-KIND.  The restoration or creation of a wetland with vegetation or
other characteristics not resembling those of a specific wetland.
   OWNER.  Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership, or
corporation having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under
this title.
   PARCEL.  A separate division of land individually described, surveyed, and
recorded of record to show the actual boundaries of the PARCEL.
   PARCEL OF PROPERTY.  A single tract or plot of land.
   PARTICULATE MATTER.  Dust, smoke, or any other form of airborne pollution in
the form of minute separate particles.
   PERIODIC MAINTENANCE.  Ordinary inspection and repair of facilities
accessory to use of a wetland.  This includes erosion control and removal of
sediment, nuisance species, and excess vegetation from a wetland in ways that
do not substantially  disturb other hydrophytic plant and animal life. 
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE does not include any modification of a wetland’s contour
or natural water storage capacity.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION.  Any structural system for transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE.  A permanent perimeter structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground.
   PERMITS. 
      (1)   COUNTY ROAD PERMIT APPLICATION.  An application submitted to the
county Building Commissioner seeking a permit from the county Highway
Department to construct an entrance into or across a county road.  The
completed application must have a sketch of the proposed change, describe the
location, type of road surface, and purpose of the opening.  An individual
permit application must be submitted for each individual opening being
requested on the roadway.
      (2)   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PER- MIT.  A permit stating that the proposed
erection, construction, enlargement, or moving of a building or structure, or
change in the use of land, complies with the provisions of the Master Plan and
Chapter 157 of this code of ordinances.
   PERSON.  Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, or any other group which acts as a unit.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT or PUD.  A tract of land developed under single
ownership or control, the development of which is unique, incorporating some or
all, but not limited to, the following attributes:  a variety of uses, varied
density of development, reduced right-of-way width, and zero lot line
development.
   PLAT. 
      (1)   A map representing a tract of land showing the boundaries and
location of individual properties and streets; or
      (2)   A map of a subdivision or site plan.
   PLAT, FINAL.  A map or chart indicating the subdivisions or resubdivision of
land, intended to be filed for record.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY.  The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Commission for approval.
   PLAT, PRIMARY.  The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Commission for approval.
   PLAT, SKETCH.  A rough sketch by the subdivider of the proposed subdivision
and presented to the Commission prior to submission of the subdivision for
primary approval.  Presenting a sketch plat prior to the preparation of the
primary plat enables the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching
general agreement with the Commission as to form of the plat and objectives of
the title.
   PORCH.  A roofed-over structure, projecting out from the wall or walls of a
main structure, with a portion of it commonly open to the weather.
   PRACTICAL ALTERNATIVE.  An alternative to a proposed project that would
accomplish the basic purpose of the project and avoid, or have less adverse
impact on, a wetland or lake.
   PREEXISTING USE.  The use of a lot or structure prior to the time of the
enactment of a zoning ordinance.
   PRIVATE DRIVE.  A right-of-way which has the characteristics of a street, as
defined herein,  except that it is not dedicated to the public use.  A driveway
which is located on a lot and which serves only the use on that lot is not
considered a PRIVATE DRIVE.
   PRIVATE ROAD.  A non-dedicated road serving one or more parcels for access.
   PRIVATE SEWER.  A disposal system which is not constructed, installed,
maintained, operated, or owned by a municipality, taxing district established
for that purpose, or a utility under the jurisdiction of the Public Services
Commission of the state.
   PRIVATE WATER.  A water supply which is not constructed, installed,
maintained, operated, or owned  by a municipality, taxing district established
for that purpose, or a utility under the jurisdiction of the Public Services
Commission of the state.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE.  An office used by members of a profession such as
architects, artists, dentists, engineers, lawyers, musicians, planners,
physicians, and surgeons.
   PROPERTY LINES.  Those bounding a lot.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.  Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, tree lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may effect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established.
   PUBLIC LAW 360, ACTS OF 1971, or P.L. 360.  Enabling legislation requiring
the state Administrative Building Council to adopt rules and regulations for
the construction, repair, or maintenance of factory-built one- or two-family
residential dwellings.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewage disposal system which is constructed, installed,
maintained, operated, and owned by a municipality or taxing district
established for that purpose.
   PUBLIC STREET.  A street established or dedicated for public use.
   PUBLIC UTILITY.  A firm, corporation, municipal department, or board duly
authorized to furnish or furnishing under regulation to the public: 
electricity, gas, steam, communication (including CATV), transportation,
drainage, sewer, or water.
   PUBLIC WATER.  A water supply system which is constructed, installed,
maintained, operated, and owned by a municipality, taxing district established
for that purpose, or a utility under the jurisdiction of the Public Services
Commission of the state.
   RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities
for track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms, stations,
train sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops, or water
towers.
   RECREATIONAL CAMPGROUND.  An area of land on which two or more recreational
vehicles, including campers, tents, RVs, or other similar temporary
recreational structures, are regularly accommodated with or without charge,
including any building, structure, or fixture of equipment that is used or
intended to be used in connection with providing these accommodations.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.  Public or private facilities that may be
classified as either extensive or intensive depending upon the scope of
services offered and the extent of use. 
      (1)   Extensive facilities generally require and utilize considerable
areas of land and include, but are not limited to, hunting or fishing areas,
race tracks, riding clubs, and parks. 
      (2)   Intensive facilities generally require less land and include, but
are not limited to, miniature golf courses, bowling alleys, and shooting
ranges.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  Commonly referred to as an RV.  A temporary dwelling
for travel, recreation, and vacation use.
      (1)   This type of vehicle is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four-hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      (2)   They include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   MOTOR HOME.  A self-propelled vehicle with a dwelling
constructed as an integral part of the vehicle, or so altered.
         (b)   PICK-UP COACH.  A structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis or cut-down car.
         (c)   TRAVEL OR CAMPING TRAILER.  A vehicle or other portable
structure that is designed to move on the highway and designed or used as a
dwelling.
   REGULATED ACTIVITY.  An activity with significant impact on delineated
wetlands and public freshwater lakes.  Regulated activities shall include, all
construction or development in or within 25 feet of the shoreline of a public
freshwater lake or a delineated wetland boundary.  All activities that are not
permitted as a right or a special use are prohibited.  REGULATED ACTIVITIES are
listed within appropriate state and federal guidelines.
   REGULATORY FLOOD.  The flood having a peak discharge which can be expected
to be equaled or exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period, as
calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the
Federal Insurance Administration.  This flood is equivalent to a flood having a
probability of occurrence of 1% in any given  year.  The REGULATORY FLOOD
elevation at any location is as defined in
Chapter 153 of this code.  The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE
FLOOD.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROFILE.  A longitudinal profile along the thread of a
stream showing the maximum water surface elevation attained by the regulatory
flood.
   RESIDENTIAL PARCEL/LOT.  A parcel or tract ten acres or less in size on
which there is or will be a residential dwelling.
   RESUBDIVISION.  A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision
plat so that the change affects any street layout on the map or area reserved
thereon for public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or plan
legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions.
   REZONE.  To change the zoning classification of particular lots or parcels
of land.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for another
special use.  The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes
shall mean that every RIGHT-OF-WAY hereafter established and shown on a
secondary plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels
adjoining the RIGHT-OF-WAY and not included within the dimensions or areas of
the lots or parcels.  RIGHTS- OF-WAY intended for streets, crosswalks, water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, shade trees, or any other use involving
maintenance by a public agency, shall be dedicated to public use by the maker
of the plat(s) on which the RIGHTS-OF-WAY are established.
   ROADSIDE STAND.  A structure for the display and sale of agricultural
products, with no space for customers within the structure itself.
   RUNOFF.  The portion of precipitation from such sources as rainfall, snow
melt, or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SALVAGE YARD.  Establishment engaged in processing of scrap iron and/or
other metals to be sold for manufacturing of steel or alloys.  The total parcel
must be fenced.
   SALVAGING.  The controlled removal of reusable materials.
   SCAVENGING.  The uncontrolled picking of materials.
   SCREENING, BUFFERING, or GREENBELT.  A structure erected or vegetation
planted which initially or eventually is of sufficient height and/or density
for concealing an area from view, deadening sound, and/or protecting from human
disturbance.
   SECTION.  A unit of a manufactured home at least ten body feet in width and
30 body feet in length.
   SELF-SUPPORTING LATTICE TOWERS.  A support structure, securely anchored to a
concrete foundation, constructed of vertical metal struts and cross braces
forming a triangular or square structure often tapering from the foundation to
its apex.
   SETBACK.  The minimum horizontal distance between the front line of a
building or structure measured at the edge of the eave and the front property
line.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL REPORT.  A study report on the suitability of the soil for
on-lot septic system based on a mechanical analysis or soil classification or
other methods as determined acceptable by the Commission.
   SFHA or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the county that are subject to inundation by the regulatory flood.  The SFHAs
of the county are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) of the county prepared by FEMA and dated June 4, 1996.
   SHORELINE.  The average normal water level as established under I.C. 14-26-
4-1 through 14-26-4-12 for public freshwater lake and administered under
supervision of the state Department of Natural Resources.
   SIGN.  A name, identification, description, display, or illustration which
is affixed to, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure, or piece of land and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization, or business.  A SIGN shall
not include:
      (1)   The display of official court or public office notices;
      (2)   The flag, emblem, or insignia of a nation, political unit, school,
or religious group; or
      (3)   One located completely within an enclosed building, except SIGNS
located behind window areas intended to be viewed from outside the building.
   SIGN, BUSINESS.  A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, or entertainment related to the premises where the sign is located or
to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, FLASHING.  An illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when the
sign is in use.  A revolving, illuminated sign shall be considered to be a
FLASHING SIGN.
   SIGN, GROSS AREA OF. 
      (1)   The entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of the sign and in no case passing through or between any
adjacent elements of same. 
      (2)   The perimeter shall not include any structural elements lying
outside the limits of the sign and not forming an integral part of the display.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE.  Non-illuminated sign flush with the front of the building
indicating the name or address of a building, or the name of an occupant
thereof and the practice of a permitted occupation therein.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES.  A structure or accessory structure usually elevated
above the ground’s surface, which communicates the availability of goods,
services, and ideas not necessarily available on the premises on which the sign
is located; the gross surface area shall not exceed 800 square feet on any
facing and shall not exhibit more than two signs per facing.
   SITE PLAN.  A drawing to scale which must be furnished to the Building
Commissioner when application is made for an improvement location permit and
which shows size and location of all existing and proposed buildings, all
adjacent streets and highways, size of all entrances and exits from the land,
and a legal description of the land.  For some uses a landscape development
plan must be included.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.  State-mandated county districts governed
by a board of directors composed of governmental officials.  District boards
are responsible for all aspects of solid waste management within their district
as provided by I.C. 13-21-3-1 through 13-21-3-22.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION.  A use permitted within a district requiring approval of
the Board of Zoning Appeals because of its unusual nature.
   SPOT ZONING.  The rezoning of a lot or parcel of land to benefit an owner
for a use incompatible with surrounding land uses and that does not further the
comprehensive zoning plan.
   SPRAWL.  Uncontrolled growth, usually of a low-density nature, in previously
rural areas and some distance from existing development and infrastructure.
   STABLE, PRIVATE.  A building or structure which is located on a lot three
acres or more in size on which a dwelling is located, and which is designed,
arranged, used, or intended to be used for housing saddle horses or ponies
primarily for the use of occupants of the dwelling, but in no event for hire,
and limited to not more than two horses per three acres.
   STABLE, RIDING.  A building or structure which is designed, arranged, used,
or intended to be used for housing saddle horses or ponies primarily for hire.
   STAFF.  The office personnel of the Plan Commission of the county.
   STANDARDS.  A specific and detailed listing of materials and construction
methods for subdivision improvements and standards of construction and design,
as adopted by the Commission (I.C. 36-7-4-702).
   STOCKYARDS.  A yard for livestock; especially an enclosure, usually with
pens, and the like, in which cattle, hogs, sheep, or horses are kept
temporarily before being slaughtered or sent to market.
   STORAGE.
      (1)   MINI.  A single-story building or group of buildings rented or
leased to the general public for the storage of miscellaneous goods and non-
hazardous materials.
      (2)   WAREHOUSE.  A primary use or accessory building of one or more
stories for the storage of specific goods and materials which pertains to the
primary use.
   STORY. 
      (1)   The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above, or if there is no floor above, the
space between the floor and the ceiling next above. 
      (2)   A basement having more than one-half its clear floor-to-ceiling
height above grade shall be considered a STORY.
   STORY, HALF.  A space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall, not more than three feet above the top
level of the story below.  (In that space, not more than 60% of the floor area
is completed for a principal or accessory use.)
   STREET or ROAD.  A right-of-way, other than an alley, dedicated or otherwise
legally established to the public use, usually affording the principal means of
access to abutting property.  A STREET may be designated as a highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, ROAD, avenue, lane, drive, or other
appropriate name.
   STREET, MAJOR.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREET.  Any roadway that provides for through traffic
movements between and through the county.
      (2)   COLLECTOR.  A street which carries traffic from local streets to
arterial streets, and may include the principal entrance street of residential
developments.
   STREET, MINOR.
      (1)   CUL-DE-SAC.  A dead-end street permanently terminated by a vehicle
turnaround.
      (2)   FEEDER.  A roadway which provides access between the major street
system and the MINOR STREETS defined herein.
      (3)   LIMITED ACCESS STREET.  A street to which abutting properties are
denied access.
      (4)   LOCAL COLLECTOR.  A roadway which provides access between the major
street system and the MINOR STREETS defined herein.
      (5)   LOCAL STREET.  A roadway, the primary function of which is to
provide direct access to residential, commercial, industrial, or other abutting
real estate.
      (6)   LOOP STREET.  A street which has its origin and termination point
with the same street and forms a loop or “U” of various shapes or proportions.
      (7)   PERIMETER STREET.  Any existing street to which the parcel of land
to be subdivided abuts on only one side.
      (8)   SERVICE ROAD.  A minor road which is parallel and adjacent to a
thoroughfare, and which provides access to abutting properties and protection
from through traffic.  Also known as a FRONTAGE ROAD.
   STREET, THOROUGHFARE.  A public way or public place that is included in the
thoroughfare plan of a unit.  The term includes the entire right-of-way for
public use of the THOROUGHFARE and all surface and subsurface improvement on
it, such as sidewalks, curbs, shoulders, utility lines, and mains.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION.  A change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as the addition,
removal, or alteration of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or
foundations.
   STRUCTURE. 
      (1)   A combination of materials other than a building to form a
construction that is safe and stable, including, among other things, stadiums,
platforms, radio towers, sheds, storage bins, fences, and display signs, except
public utility communication and transmission lines and supporting equipment.
      (2)   Also, a STRUCTURE that is principally above ground and is enclosed
by walls and a roof.  The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building, and also includes recreational
vehicles to be installed in a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBDIVIDER.  Any person engaged in developing or improving a tract of land
which complies with the definition of a subdivision as defined in this title.
   SUBDIVISION.  The division of a parcel or tract of land into two or more
parcels regardless of size.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR.  A division of a parcel or tract of land into two or
more parcels that involves the creation of additional streets.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR.  The subdividing of a parcel or tract of land to create
contiguous parcels for residential purposes on frontage lots without creating
additional streets or easements of access.
   SUBDIVISION, RESIDENTIAL.  A division of a parcel or tract of land into two
or more parcels with or without the creation of additional streets or easement
access for residential use and not commercial agricultural usage.
   SUBDIVISION, STRIP.  A division of land which creates two or more contiguous
residential parcels on frontage lots.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. 
      (1)   This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. 
      (2)   The term does not include improvements of structures to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
requirements, or any alterations of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. 
      (1)   Any alteration, repair, enlargement, or extension of an existing
building.  SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural element of the
building commences. 
      (2)   This term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Survey of Historic, Architectural, Archeological,
and Cultural Sites, Structures, Districts, and Objects.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.  Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this title, including a
fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a present possessory
interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser as recorded in the
office of the County Recorder.
   SUPPORT SYSTEM.  A pad or a combination of footings, piers, caps, plates,
and shims, which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or mobile
home.
   TAVERN.  A building where liquors are sold to be consumed on the premises
and where entertainment may or may not be provided.
   TERRACE, OPEN.  A level and rather narrow plane, or platform, which for the
purpose of this title is located adjacent to one or more faces of the principal
structure and which is constructed not more than four feet in height above the
average level of the adjoining ground.
   TRAVEL TRAILER.  A vehicle or other portable structure that is designed to
move on the highway and designed or used as a dwelling.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK.  An area of land on which two or more travel trailers
are regularly accommodated with or without charge, including any building or
other structure, fixture, or equipment that is used or intended to be used in
connection with providing that accommodation.
   TRUCK LOT.  Any lot or land area used solely for the storage or layover of
commercial trucks, tractors, or truck trailers.
   TRUCK TERMINAL OR YARD, COMMERCIAL.  Any land use with or without buildings
for, but not limited to:  parking, storage, maintenance, or transfer station
for commercial trucks, tractors, truck trailers, and other commercial vehicles.
   UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.  An ordinance which provides for minimum standards for
building condition and maintenance in the county.  The county Building
Commissioner shall be the enforcement authority and the BZA shall be the
hearing authority.
   URBAN DRAIN. 
      (1)   A drainage plan the Commission may require from a subdivider when
considering the primary plat.  Depending upon the Commission’s findings, the
county Drainage Board may be petitioned to include the subdivision as an URBAN
DRAIN as specified in the 1965 state Drainage Code and its amendments. 
      (2)   A drain shall be designated as an URBAN DRAIN when:
         (a)   The drain will not provide proper drainage for urban land or
will not impound water in a small lake without construction or reconstruction;
         (b)   It is determined that the construction or reconstruction will
provide proper drainage; and
         (c)   Either or both of the following factors is present:
            1.   A reasonable part of the land within the watershed has been or
is being converted from rural land to urban land; and
            2.   It appears to the Commission that one or more tracts within
the watershed is or will be changing from rural land to urban land and that the
change requires the drainage provided by an URBAN DRAIN.
   USE (OF PROPERTY).  The purpose or activity for which the land or building
thereon is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or
maintained.  This includes any manner of performance of activity or operation
with respect to the performance standards of this title.
   USE, PERMITTED.  A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided that it conforms with all requirements,
regulations, and performance standards, if any, of the district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL.  The main use of land or buildings, as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.  May be either a permitted use or a special use.
   USE, SPECIAL.  Those uses of land which are not essentially incompatible
with the uses permitted in a zoning district, but possess characteristics or
locational qualities which require individual review and restriction.
   VARIANCE.  A deviation from the strict application of the specific
requirements of zoning as it pertains to use, building, frontages, access, lot
size, setbacks, or other developments as it pertains to specific property.
   WAIVER.  Permission to depart from the requirements of an ordinance with no
respect to the submission of required documents.
   WASTE.
      (1)   HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Regulated by the Resources Conservation and
Recovery Act  (RCRA, 1976) (42 USC 6901) and its amendments; any waste that is
“corrosive, ignitable, reactive, or toxic” or poses a substantial threat to
human health and environment when improperly managed.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE.  Generally consists of materials such as
wastewater treatment sludges (waste with most of the water removed; semi-
liquid), agricultural wastes, plastics, oil, paint, metal, or coal ash, and is
managed on-site in landfills, surface impoundments, land application units, and
waste piles and/or off-site land facilities, discharged to wastewater treatment
plants and to surface waters.
      (3)   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE.  The refuse discarded by households,
institutions, and commercial establishments (as distinguished from hazardous
wastes and sludges), and which is disposed of in landfills, by incineration, or
is composted, recycled, or reused.
      (4)   YARD WASTE.  Plant clippings, pruning, and other discarded
materials from yards and gardens; also called YARD RUBBISH.
   WASTE DISPOSAL MANAGEMENT AND REDUCTION.  Techniques which include but are
not limited to:
      (1)   COLLECTION CENTER or INTER- MEDIATE PROCESSING FACILITY.  A light
industrial facility for collecting secondary materials, usually from the
public, and reselling to brokers, processing centers, or manufacturing. 
COLLECTION CENTERS may or may not buy material, can be permanent or mobile, and
do no processing of materials for resale.
      (2)   COMPOSTING.  The controlled decay of organic matter, producing a
nutrient-rich mulch or organic soil, thus removing part of the waste going to
landfills and incinerator.
      (3)   INCINERATION.  A process technology which reduces the amount
(particularly by volume) of wastes, the residues of which must then be managed
and disposed of properly.
      (4)   LANDFILL, SANITARY.  An engineering project for refuse disposal in
which the waste is dumped in accordance with a preconceived plan, compacted,
and covered during and at the end of each day.
      (5)   NEIGHBORHOOD HOME COLLECTION CENTER.  Items need to be contained in
a building.
      (6)   PROCESSING CENTER.  A heavy industrial facility that buys secondary
material, usually from brokers, collection centers, and various post- consumer
waste facilities, to use on-site for the remanufacturing of products.
      (7)   RECYCLING.  The process by which materials otherwise destined for
disposal are retrieved and remanufactured into new products.  RECYCLING
involves four steps:
         (a)   Separating recyclable material from the waste stream;
         (b)   Processing recyclable materials so that they can substitute for
virgin materials in the manufacture of products;
         (c)   Producing a marketable commodity using the recycled material;
and
         (d)   Consumer purchase and use of recycled products.
      (8)   SOURCE REDUCTION.  Minimizing the quantity of waste generated,
starting at the manufacturer and consumer levels by increasing durability and
reducing weight, volume, and packaging.
      (9)   TRANSFER STATION.  An inter- mediate facility where collected
refuse is deposited for transfer to the final disposal site.
   WATERSHED.  All land and water within the confines of a drainage divide (a
ridge separating two drainage basins).
   WATERSHED LOCATION MAPS.  Maps required to be provided to the Commission
when seeking primary approval of a plat.  The maps may be separate or
incorporated in the primary plat and shall show pertinent subdivision
information including, but not limited to, thoroughfares, physical features,
existing schools, location of the subdivision and the streams and drainage
within the watershed, and the floodplains and floodways as mapped by the
Federal Insurance Administration.
   WETLAND.  An area which:
      (1)   Supports predominantly aquatic or hydrophytic vegetation;
      (2)   Contains hydric soils;
      (3)   Is saturated with water permanently, or at least sometime during
the growing season; or
      (4)   Displays an hydrology typically associated with a WETLAND.
   WETLAND DELINEATION.  The determination as to whether an area is a wetland. 
Reference shall be made to and guided by, and field observations shall be
conducted in accordance with, the methods set forth and described in the most
recent legislation for: Federal Interagency Committee for Wetlands Delineation,
and subsequent amendments;  Federal Manual for Identifying and Delineating
Jurisdictional Wetlands;  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency; U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; and U.S.D.A. Soil
Conservation Service, Washington D.C.  (Cooperative technical publication,  76
pages, plus appendices.)  A copy of the manual is on file in the office of the
county Plan Commission.
   WETLAND DISTRICT.  An area which includes any or all of the following:  a
delineated wetland and area within 25 feet of a delineated wetland or within 25
feet of the shoreline of a public freshwater lake.
   WETLAND HYDROLOGY.  Commonly referred to as the wetness of an area.  An area
has WETLAND HYDROLOGY when saturated or inundated at some time during the
growing season.
   WETLAND MAPS. 
      (1)   The portion of the National Wetlands Inventory which includes the
county, and which shows wetlands and lakes located within the county’s
geographic area. 
      (2)   The National Wetlands Inventory, as periodically updated, is
incorporated herein by reference.  These maps are intended as a preliminary
guide, as only the general location of wetlands may be shown.  Copies of these
maps are on file at the office of the county Plan Commission.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT.  A business establishment engaged in selling to
retailers or jobbers rather than consumers.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS.  The technology by which communications or radio
signals are transmitted or received from one communication source to another,
which may include mobile units, land-based units, or satellite, whether radio,
digital, telephone, or television not otherwise exempted by federal regulation.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA.  The physical device through which wireless
communications signals are transmitted or received.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY.  A facility consisting of the equipment
and structures involved in receiving and transmitting wireless communications
signals.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWER.  A structure intended to support equipment
used to transmit and/or receive wireless communications signals, including
monopoles and self-supporting lattice towers.
   YARD.  An open space on the same lot with a building or structure unoccupied
and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky, except as otherwise
permitted.  A YARD extends along a lot line, and to a depth or width specified
in the YARD requirements for the zoning district in which the lot is located,
and shall not include that part in use as or to be used as a street.
      (1)   YARD, CORNER SIDE.  A side yard which adjoins a public street,
road, or highway.
      (2)   YARD, FRONT.  A yard extending along the full length of the front
lot line between the side lot lines, and shall not include that part in use or
to be used as a street.
      (3)   YARD, INTERIOR SIDE.  A side yard which is located immediately
adjacent to another lot or to an alley separating the side yard from another
lot.
      (4)   YARD, REAR.  A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot
line between the side lot lines.
      (5)   YARD, SIDE.  A yard extending along a side lot line from the front
yard to the rear yard.
      (6)   YARD, TRANSITIONAL.  A yard which must be provided on a lot in a
business district which adjoins a lot in a residential district, or a yard
which must be provided on a lot in a manufacturing district which adjoins a lot
in either a residential or business district.
   ZERO LOT LINE.  The location of a building on a lot in such a manner that
one or more of the building’s sides rest directly on a lot line.
   ZONING.  The delineation of districts and the establishment of regulations
governing the use, placement, spacing, and size of land and buildings.
   ZONING DISTRICT(S).  A section or sections of the territory of the county,
for which the regulations and requirements governing use, lot, bulk of
buildings, and premises are uniform.
   ZONING MAP.  The map or maps that are a part of the zoning ordinance and
delineate the boundaries of zoning districts.
   ZONING OFFICIAL.  The officer appointed by the Commission to administer and
enforce the provisions of Chapter 157 of this code of ordinances.
   ZONING ORDINANCE or CHAPTER 157 OF THIS CODE.  The part of the Comprehensive
or Master Plan, now or hereafter adopted, which includes an ordinance and
zoning maps which divide the jurisdiction of the Commission into districts,
with regulations, requirements, and procedures for the establishment of the
land use controls.
(`88 Code, § 8-5)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-6-
05)
Statutory reference:
   Primary plat approval and standards, see I.C. 36-7-4-702
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.15  ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL DESIGNATED.
   The county Zoning Administrator and Building Commissioner are designated as
the enforcement official under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-1013(a) and I.C.
36-7-4-1014(a), including any amendments thereto hereinafter adopted, or any
other provisions of state law hereinafter adopted in place of or supplemental
thereto.
(`88 Code, § 8-152)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement, local planning and zoning, see I.C. 36-7-4-1013(a) and 36-7-4-
1014(a)
§ 150.16  APPEALS BODY DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals is the appeals body to which any
individual, corporation, or entity may appeal a decision or stay an order of
the Zoning Administrator and Building Commissioner. 
   (B)   (1)   The BZA will adopt rules and procedures governing hearings in
these matters and the time periods in which the appeals may be undertaken. 
      (2)   The BZA may approve, amend, or reverse any decision of the Zoning
Administrator and Building Commissioner, to include the imposition of any fine
provided by this title.
(`88 Code § 8-153)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.17  PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION; COLLECTION.
   (A)   A person or persons, firm, partnership, corporation, or any other
entity that violates, or permits or assists in the violation of any part or
provision of this title, may be fined, and the county may recover a judgment,
plus attorney’s fees, in the amount of any fine thus imposed against any
person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity found to have violated
this title. 
(`88 Code, § 8-154)
   (B)   All fines or fees thus collected on behalf of or for the enforcement
of this title shall be deposited in the Unsafe Building Fund established by the
County Board of Commissioners. 
(`88 Code, § 8-155)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.18  ENFORCEMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   The county, the Board of Zoning Appeals, or the Zoning Administrator
may bring an action against any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or
other entity for the following:
      (1)   An injunction to restrain the violation of any part or provision of
this title; or
      (2)   A mandatory injunction directing the removal of any structure
erected in violation of any part or provision of this title.
   (B)   If any action as in division (A) above is successful and injunctive
relief is granted, then the judgment may also award the county, the Board of
Zoning Appeals, or the Zoning Administrator, costs of the action, including
attorney’s fees, and fines as assessed or determined by the court as provided
by this title for violation thereof.
(`88 Code, § 8-156)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.19  COMMON NUISANCE.
   Any structure erected, raised, or converted on land or premises used in
violation of this title is a common nuisance, and the owner or possessor of any
structure, land, or premises thus in violation is liable for maintaining a
common nuisance.
(`88 Code, § 8-157)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.20  PROCEDURE TO IMPOSE A FINE FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any proceeding brought by the county, the county Plan Commission, or
the county Board of Zoning Appeals to enforce the provisions of this title
shall be brought pursuant to and governed by the provisions of:
      (1)   I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10);
      (2)   I.C. 36-1-6-1 et seq.;
      (3)   I.C. 34-28-5-1 et seq.;
      (4)   I.C. 36-7-4-1012;
      (5)   I.C. 36-7-4-1013(a);
      (6)   I.C. 36-7-4-1014(a);
      (7)   I.C. 36-7-4-1015; and
      (8)   I.C. 36-7-4-1018.
   (B)   This includes any amendments hereinafter adopted to any of the above
cited provisions, or any other provisions of state law hereinafter adopted in
place thereof or supplemental thereto.
(`88 Code, § 8-158)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.21  SCHEDULE OF FEES AND FINES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals and the Plan Commission may adopt annually
a schedule of fees at the first organization meeting of each year.  Fees to
consider would be any permit authorized for issuance by the Building
Commissioner under the jurisdiction of the BZA or the Commission.
   (B)   The BZA and the Commission may also adopt annually a uniform schedule
of fines to be imposed by the Building Commissioner for any violation of this
title.
      (1)   These fines shall not exceed the amount specified by I.C. 36-1-3-8.
      (2)   These fines are subject to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   In the event a fine is not appealed to the BZA and legal action is
necessary for enforcement, the Plan Commission or BZA may seek the maximum fine
allowed by I.C. 36-1-3-8 as well as costs of the action and attorney’s fees.
(`88 Code, § 8-159)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION
§ 150.35  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The county Plan Commission (hereinafter called “the Commission”) exists as
an advisory plan commission under the authority of I.C. 36-7-4-202 and any
amendments thereto.  The rules of the Commission are adopted in accordance with
the requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-401.
(`88 Code, § 8-162)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.36  DUTIES.
   The duties of the Commission shall be those set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-400 et
seq., and other responsibilities as may be required by state statute or county
ordinance.
(`88 Code, § 8-162)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.37  OFFICERS, MEMBERS, AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall consist of nine voting members, appointed in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-202 and any amendment thereto, which shall continue
to control the duration and determination of membership.
   (B)   At its first regularly scheduled meeting in each calendar year, the
Commission shall elect from its voting membership a President and a Vice
President.  Each shall serve during the period of his or her membership on the
Commission for the balance of the calendar year.
   (C)   The Vice President shall have authority to act as President of the
Commission during the absence or disability of the President.
   (D)   Upon resignation or replacement of the President or Vice President as
a member of the Commission, the Commission shall elect a successor at its next
regularly scheduled meeting.
   (E)   The Commission shall appoint and fix the duties of a Secretary, who is
not required to be a member of the Commission.  The Secretary shall be charged
with those duties as are required under state statute, county ordinances, and
these rules, and shall also serve as Building Commissioner of the county.
   (F)   (1)   If a vacancy occurs among the members of the Commission, the
appointing authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the
vacating member. 
      (2)   (a)   The appointing authority shall be notified in writing by the
Secretary when a member has been absent for three consecutive meetings of the
Commission. 
         (b)   Absences may constitute cause for removal from the Commission by
the appointing authority, I.C. 36-7-4-218(f).
   (G)   The Commission may appoint employees as are necessary to the discharge
of the duties of the Commission.  Within its budget allotment, the Commission
may fix the compensation of these employees in conformity with salaries and
compensation fixed up to that time by the County Council.
   (H)   Within its budget allotment, the Commission may contract for special
or temporary services and for legal counsel.
(`88 Code, § 8-163)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.38  MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The Plan Commission will meet at least monthly.  At the yearly
organizational meeting, the Commission will establish dates and times for
meetings for the current year. 
      (2)   The location of the meeting shall be in the County Complex,
Assembly Room, unless otherwise specified by the Board of Commissioners or Plan
Commission to be at another location upon due public notice. 
      (3)   If the date of a regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, or if it
is impossible to conduct the meeting at that time or place, the President may
set an alternate date, time, or place for the regular meeting, or may cancel
the meeting with the unanimous consent of the members of the Commission,
provided that the notice requirements of I.C. 5-14-1.5 are complied with.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the President or two members of the
Commission upon written request to the Secretary.  The Secretary shall send to
all members, at least three days before the special meeting, a written notice
fixing the time and place of the meeting.  Written notice is not required if:
      (1)   The date, time, and place of the special meeting are fixed in a
regular meeting;
      (2)   All members of the Commission are present at that regular meeting;
and
      (3)   The Secretary complies with the notice requirements of I.C. 5-14-
1.5.
   (C)   The order of business at regular meetings shall be:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Determination of quorum;
      (4)   Consideration of minutes of previous meeting;
      (5)   Old business;
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Communications, bills, and expendi- tures;
      (8)   Report of officers and committees, and staff if applicable; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (D)   The President of the Commission shall preside over meetings, decide
questions of order, subject to appeal by Commission members, and preserve
decorum in the meeting room.  The President shall pronounce the decisions of
the Commission for purpose of recording in the minutes.
   (E)   No one who is not a member of the Commission shall be permitted to
address the Commission except by request and consent of the President.
(`88 Code, § 8-164)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.39  OFFICIAL ACTION; DISCUSSION AND VOTING.
   (A)   A majority of the members of the Plan Commission who are qualified to
vote shall constitute a quorum.  Action of the Commission shall not be official
unless it is authorized at a regular or properly-called special meeting by a
majority of the entire membership of the Commission.
   (B)   All members present shall vote on every question unless they are
permitted to abstain by the presiding officer, or, in the case of a zoning
matter, have disqualified themselves because of a conflict of interest as
described in division (C) below.
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall participate in a hearing,
discussion, or decision of the Commission upon any zoning matter in which the
member has a direct or indirect financial interest.  A “zoning matter” does not
include the preparation or adoption of a comprehensive plan.  A member shall
declare his or her known conflict of interest.  The Commission shall enter into
its records the fact that the member has this disqualification.
   (D)   In the event that a majority vote of the Commission cannot be achieved
due to absences, permitted abstentions, or disqualifications, the matter shall
be rescheduled for the next regular meeting at the request of any Commission
member, a petitioner, or a remonstrator.
(`88 Code, § 8-165)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.40  MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Secretary of the Plan Commission shall prepare and maintain
minutes of its meetings.  The minutes shall include the vote of each member on
each question presented or indicate that the member is absent, abstaining with
permission, or not voting because of a disqualification.
   (B)   The minutes of Commission meetings and all records shall be filed in
the office of the Commission and are public records, as defined by I.C. 5-14-3,
once approved by the Commission.
   (C)   The minutes shall be presented to the Commission for approval at the
next succeeding regular meeting.  When approved, the minutes shall be signed by
the President and attested by the Secretary.
(`88 Code, § 8-166)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.41  PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall hold those public hearings as are required
by state statute and county ordinances.  The Commission may hold additional
hearings at times and places and upon that notice as it considers necessary.
   (B)   A petitioner who seeks to vacate a plat, amend the zoning map, develop
a subdivision, or other matter under the jurisdiction of the Commission, shall
file a petition with the Commission.
   (C)   The Commission shall adopt appropriate rules and procedures for the
filing and hearing of any petitions or matters for which the Commission has
jurisdiction.  All petitions or plats shall be filed with the Commission at
least 15 days prior to its next regular scheduled meeting.
   (D)   The Commission may require additional information, data, statistics,
or plats beyond those established by statute or ordinance which are deemed
necessary for intelligent determination by the Commission.
   (E)   The petitioner shall prepare the legal advertisement of the public
hearing for the approval of the Commission and shall bear the expense of the
advertising costs.  In addition, the petitioner will notify all persons deemed
by state statute and the Commission to be interested parties at least ten days
before the date of the public hearing.  At the public hearing, the petitioner
shall provide proof that he or she has complied with this requirement.
(`88 Code, § 8-167)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.42  NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   A notice of a public hearing required by state statute or county
ordinance shall contain as a minimum the following information:
      (1)   The substance of the matter to be heard by the Commission and
including the nature and request concerning the appeal, use, exception, or
variance applied for, if any;
      (2)   General location, general description, and address of the property
affected;
      (3)   Name of the person, agency, or entity initiating the matter to be
heard;
      (4)   Time and place of the hearing;
      (5)   Statement that the petition may be examined at the Commission
office;
      (6)   Statement that any person may offer verbal comments at the hearing
or may file written comments prior to or at the hearing; and
      (7)   Any other information which may be required by law to be contained
in the notice.
   (B)   All interested parties as defined by §
150.05 of this code must receive notice of any petition pending before the
Commission.  The applicant must provide the Commission proof of mailing of
notice to all interested parties at the time the petition is presented for
hearing.
   (C)   The applicant must also publish notice pursuant to I.C. 5-3-1 et seq. 
Publication must occur at least ten days prior to the meeting in which the
petition is heard.  At the time of hearing, the petitioner must provide an
affidavit showing proof of publication.
   (D)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the notice requirements contained
in the previous sections are the bare minimum necessary for the presentation of
the petition of any matter to be heard before the Commission.  In the event
that any state statute, particularly I.C. 36-7-4 et seq., requires any other
additional notice in addition to that provided by this subchapter, the
petitioner shall comply with same.
   (E)   The names of the interested parties who are property owners to be
notified are to be ascertained from the real estate tax records, as maintained
by the County Assessor’s office.
(`88 Code, § 8-168)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.43  CONDUCT OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   At a public hearing before the Commission, the petitioner, property
owner, or agent for the petitioner or property owner shall first present the
facts and arguments in support of the case.  Comments and questions from the
Commission members may be interjected during the presentation for clarification
of the subject matter.  Each person who wishes to comment on the petition must
address the President and be recognized before speaking.  Each person must
state his or her name and address.  The President may limit a speaker’s time to
assure an opportunity for all speakers to comment.
   (B)   The President shall close the public hearing after the Commission has
adequately heard from all interested persons.
   (C)   The petitioner may summarize arguments and the Commission may question
further.  The Commission may then consider the petition.
   (D)   In the presentation of a case, the burden shall be upon the petitioner
to supply all information, including charts, diagrams, and other exhibits
necessary for a clear understanding of the problem.  The Commission may
continue the hearing when, in its judgment, the petitioner has not provided
sufficient evidence on which to make a determination.
   (E)   Every person appearing before the Plan Commission shall abide by the
order and directions of the President.  Discourteous, disorderly, or con-
temptuous conduct shall be regarded as a breach of the privileges of the
Commission and shall be dealt with as the Commission directs.
   (F)   The Commission, at its discretion, may continue or postpone the
hearing of any case on an affirmative vote of a majority of the Commission.
(`88 Code, § 8-169)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.44  FINAL DISPOSITION OF CASES.
   (A)   The final disposition of any case shall be in the form of a
recommendation setting forth the findings and determination of the Plan
Commission, together with any modification, specification, or limitation which
it makes.
   (B)   The Commission may dismiss a case for lack of prosecution or lack of
jurisdiction.  When a petitioner has failed to appear at two consecutive
meetings, the case may be dismissed for lack of prosecution.
   (C)   Following the publication of notice for any public hearing, until the
conclusion of the hearing, a petitioner may not withdraw the matter to come
before the public hearing without the approval of the Commission.
   (D)   A case which has been withdrawn by the petitioner shall not be again
placed on the docket for consideration within a period of 12 months after the
date of withdrawal.
   (E)   A case which has been decided adversely to the petitioner shall not
again be placed on the docket for consideration until 12 months after the date
of decision previously rendered.
   (F)   Because the Commission’s recommendation is only advisory, the
petitioner may request that the adverse recommendation be brought before the
County Commissioners for their consideration.  The Plan Commission’s
recommendation, either favorable or adverse, may be overturned by the County
Commissioners under I.C. 36-7-4-609.
(`88 Code, § 8-170)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.45  COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The President, with the approval of the Commission, may establish
those committees as are deemed to be necessary and desirable.  The purposes and
terms of these committees shall be specified at the time of their
establishment.
   (B)   Members of committees shall be appointed by the President.
(`88 Code, § 8-171)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.46  AMENDMENTS TO RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Commission may make amendments to the rules and procedures at the
regular scheduled meeting.  Amendment shall be by two-thirds of the vote of the
Commission.
   (B)   The Plan Commission may suspend, by unanimous consent of all the
Commission members present, rules and procedures as they deem necessary for the
appropriate conduct of any hearing.
(`88 Code, § 8-172)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 150.60  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The county Board of Zoning Appeals, hereinafter called “the BZA,” exists as
an advisory board of zoning appeals under the authority of I.C. 36-7-4-901 and
any amendments thereto.
(`88 Code, § 8-176)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.61  DUTIES.
   The duties of the BZA shall be those set forth in the statute named above,
and other responsibilities as may be required by the ordinances of the county.
(`88 Code, § 8-176)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.62  OFFICERS, MEMBERS, AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five voting members,
appointed in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-902, as amended.
   (B)   At its first regularly scheduled meeting in each calendar year, the
BZA shall select from its membership a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson. 
Each shall serve during the period of his or her membership on the BZA for the
balance of the calendar year.
   (C)   The Vice Chairperson shall have the authority to act as Chairperson of
the BZA during the absence or disability of the Chairperson.
   (D)   Upon resignation or replacement of the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson
as a member of the BZA, the BZA shall elect a successor at its next regularly
scheduled meeting.
   (E)   The BZA shall appoint and fix the duties of a Secretary, who shall
also serve as Zoning Administrator for the county.
   (F)   If a vacancy occurs among the members of the Board of Zoning Appeals,
the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the
vacating member.  The appointing authority shall be notified in writing by the
Secretary when a member has been absent for three consecutive meetings of the
BZA.  Absences may constitute cause for removal from the BZA by the appointing
authority under I.C. 36-7-4-906(f).
   (G)   The BZA may appoint employees as are necessary for the discharge of
its duties.
(`88 Code, § 8-177)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.63  MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals will meet at least monthly.  At the yearly
organizational meeting, the BZA will establish dates and times for meetings for
the current year.  The location of the meeting shall be in the County Complex
Assembly Hall.  If the date of a regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, or
if it is impossible to conduct the meeting at that time or place, the
Chairperson may set an alternate date, time, or place for the regular meeting
or may cancel the meeting with the consent of the majority of the members of
the BZA.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or two members of
the BZA upon written request to the Secretary.  The Secretary will notify all
members at least three days prior to the special meeting.  Any special meeting
must comply with the notice requirements of I.C. 5-14-1.5.
   (C)   (1)   The agenda shall list all items to be considered by the BZA at
the regular or special meeting.  The items shall be listed on the agenda in the
order in which the petitions or other documents were filed with the Secretary. 
No item shall be considered by the BZA unless it appears on the agenda.
      (2)   The agenda shall be sent to the members of the BZA and shall be
available for public inspection at the Plan Commission office no later than ten
days before any regular meeting.
   (D)   The Chairperson of the BZA shall preside over meetings and hearings,
decide questions of order, subject to appeal by BZA members, and preserve
decorum in the meeting room.  The Chairperson may warn any person present that
particular conduct is a breach of courtesy and may order a person expelled from
the meeting for disruptive conduct.  The Chairperson shall further control the
time of any presentation by any remonstrator or petitioner within reason and
fairness for all parties concerned.
   (E)   The Secretary of the BZA shall keep minutes of its proceedings and
record the vote on all actions taken.  The BZA shall also make written findings
of fact in all cases heard by it.
(`88 Code, § 8-178)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.64  OFFICIAL ACTION; DISCUSSION AND VOTING.
   (A)   A majority of the members of the BZA who are qualified to vote shall
constitute a quorum.  Action of the BZA shall not be official unless it is
authorized at a regular or properly called special meeting by a majority of the
entire membership of the BZA.
   (B)   Voting by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be by roll call vote of
the members.  All members present shall vote on every question unless they are
permitted to abstain by the presiding officer.
   (C)   No member of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall participate in a
hearing or decision of the BZA upon any zoning matter in which the member has a
direct or indirect financial interest.  A member shall declare his or her known
conflict of interest.  The BZA shall enter into its records the fact that the
member has this disqualification, and the name of the alternative member, if
any, who participates in the hearing or decision in place of the regular
member.
   (D)   In the event a majority vote of the BZA cannot be achieved due to
absences, permitted absenteeism, or disqualifications, the matter shall be
rescheduled for the next regular meeting at the request of any BZA member, a
petitioner, or a remonstrator.
(`88 Code, § 8-179)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.65  MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall prepare and
maintain minutes of its meetings.  The minutes shall include the vote of each
member on each question presented, or indicate that the member is absent,
abstaining with permission, or not voting because of a disqualification.
   (B)   The minutes of BZA meetings and all records shall be filed in the
office of the Plan Commission and are public records, as defined by I.C. 5-14-
3.
   (C)   The minutes shall be presented to the BZA for approval at the next
succeeding regular meeting.  When approved, the minutes shall be signed by the
Chairperson and attested by the Secretary.
(`88 Code, § 8-180)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.66  PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   All regular special meetings and hearings of the BZA shall be open to
the public, and all petitions acted on by the BZA at these meetings shall
constitute a public hearing thereon.
   (B)   The applicant or his or her agent must appear before the BZA in order
to present a petition.  Failure to appear can cause the petition to be
dismissed subject to the BZA’s discretion.  A petition continued more than once
can be dismissed by the BZA or upon request by a remonstrator.
   (C)   The applicant may be granted a continuance of a public hearing for
which a petition is scheduled but not acted upon and which has had a notice
issued and published.  The Chairperson or his or her designated representative
may continue a hearing for the first time if the applicant requests a
continuance at least 24 hours in advance of any scheduled public hearing.  Any
other additional continuances must be made before the Board of Zoning Appeals. 
These requests may be granted at the BZA’s discretion upon the determination of
good cause.  The BZA may further waive notice requirements.  If any additional
notice for the continuance is necessary, the applicant shall bear
responsibility for notice.
   (D)   A remonstrator may be granted a continuance which shall be made at the
public hearing.  No further notice is necessary if the hearing is rescheduled
at that time.  The continuance shall be based on cause as determined by the
BZA.
   (E)   (1)   The BZA may continue a public hearing or defer decision upon an
application to a subsequent public hearing.  At the subsequent hearing the BZA
may not consider any additional evidence unless all parties are given equal
opportunities to present additional evidence as necessary within the discretion
of the BZA.
      (2)   (a)   Any applicant or petitioner may withdraw his or her petition
at any time prior to the presentation of any evidence on application or
petition as described in division (E)(1).  The applicant may not refile the
petition for three months after a withdrawal.  After the beginning of
presentation of evidence on the application or petition, the application or
petition shall not be allowed to be withdrawn without unanimous consent of the
BZA. 
         (b)   After the beginning of presentation of evidence, the petitioner
or applicant may move for a dismissal of his or her petition.  In that event,
the petition dismissed shall be considered the same as denial of the petition. 
In either event, the applicant may not refile the petition for one year after
dismissal or denial.
(`88 Code, § 8-181)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.67  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business at a regular meeting shall be:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call and determination of quorum;
      (3)   Consideration of minutes of previous meeting;
      (4)   Old business (tabled or continued items);
      (5)   New business;
      (6)   Report of officers and committees; and
      (7)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The order of business for special meetings shall be:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call and determination of quorum;
      (3)   The business for which the special meeting was called; and
      (4)   Adjournment.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall act on a petition in the following
order.
      (1)   The Chairperson shall summarize the application and describe the
location of affected area.
      (2)   The applicant shall first present the facts supporting his or her
petition, to include any witnesses on his or her behalf.
      (3)   Any individual who wishes to remonstrate or oppose the petition or
application may speak individually or speak through a designated spokesperson. 
All witnesses or speakers shall address the BZA, and speak only after being
recognized by the Chairperson.  The BZA may control limited debate on any
petition or application as it deems necessary and appropriate.
      (4)   BZA members may direct questions to any petitioner, proponent, or
opponent following any presentation.
      (5)   The Secretary or zoning director may provide any other information
the BZA deems pertinent regarding the application or petition.
      (6)   Upon conclusion of questioning and discussion, the Chairperson
shall entertain a motion to conclude the public hearing of the petition or
application and conclude the debate thereon pending any motion to be determined
by the BZA at that time.
      (7)   All individuals speaking before the BZA, whether as a proponent or
opponent of any petition, shall state their name and address prior to speaking.
      (8)   The BZA may render a decision regarding the petition or may
continue a petition that has not been dismissed or withdrawn to another meeting
without public notice.  Continuances are made at the time of the public
hearing, and the new date, time, and place of the new rescheduled meetings are
made and recorded in the minutes, which shall constitute public notice unless
the BZA deems additional notice is necessary.
(`88 Code, § 8-182)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.68  VARIANCE, USE, EXCEPTION, AND APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Every petitioner or applicant for an appeal, variance, use, or
exception shall file a petition stating the reasons for the petition or
application and the location of the property affected.
      (1)   Every petition for a use, exception, or variance shall be filed
with the Secretary no later than 15 days prior to its consideration by the
Board of Zoning Appeals at the next regular scheduled BZA meeting.
      (2)   Any appeal of an administrative decision shall be filed no later
than 15 days from the date of the decision appealed and shall be heard at the
BZA’s next regular scheduled meeting.  There will be no notice requirements for
an appeal of an administrative decision.
   (B)   (1)   An application for an appeal, use, exception, or variance should
be signed by the owner of record of the real estate which is the subject matter
of the application.  If the applicant is other than the owner of record of the
subject real estate, the applicant shall describe on the application the nature
of his or her interest thereon and sign the same along with the owner of
record.
      (2)   Only final decisions of the BZA may be appealed to the appropriate
civil court as permitted by statute.
(`88 Code, § 8-183)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.69  NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any notice of an application or petition for an appeal, use,
exception, or variance shall include at least the following items:
      (1)   General location, legal description, and address of the property
affected;
      (2)   Nature of the request concerning the appeal, use, exception, or
variance applied for; and
      (3)   Date and time of the public hearing thereon.
   (B)   For the purpose of I.C. 36-7-4-920(b), any person who is the owner of
abutting property as well as any adjacent party as defined by this title shall
be entitled to specific notice of the application for use, variance, or
exception.
   (C)   The applicant for the appeal, use, exception, or variance shall be
responsible for placing publication or notice of the application or petition as
scheduled for public hearing.  The notice shall be published pursuant to the
requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-900 and I.C. 5-14-1.5.  Publication shall be ten
days prior to the regular meeting or public hearing on the petition or
application.
   (D)   The applicant or petitioner shall be required to provide to the BZA
proof of mailing or receipt of notice of all adjacent parties being mailed
certified return receipt requested no less than ten days prior to the date of
the publication.  The applicant may also file notice, personally signed, or
delivered to the adjacent parties, and this notice shall be signed by the
adjacent parties.  Personal notice must show receipt at least five days prior
to the hearing.
   (E)   Prior to presentation of the petition the applicant shall provide an
affidavit and listing of all owners of record considered as adjacent parties
according to the real estate master file maintained by the County Auditor, as
well as a copy of the notice mailed.
(`88 Code, § 8-184)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.70  COMMITMENTS AND CONDITIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Prior to granting any variance, the BZA may prescribe appropriate
commitments which shall be provided by the applicant before approval of any
variance.  The BZA may require the owner of a parcel of property to make a
written commitment which shall be provided by the applicant before approval of
any variance.  The BZA may require the owner of a parcel of property to make a
written commitment concerning the use or development of that parcel, and record
the same.
      (1)   For the purpose of state law, the BZA or any person claiming to be
adversely affected by any commitment is entitled to enforce the commitment.
      (2)   A commitment shall be created by the owner of the property by
affixing his or her signature to a written statement of the terms of the
commitment.  The commitments shall be approved by the BZA and the same recorded
by the petitioner prior to any variance taking effect.
      (3)   A commitment may be modified or terminated only by a decision of
the BZA made at a public hearing after notice is given in accordance with the
requirements set forth in this title.
      (4)   If any person fails to abide by a commitment, that person commits a
violation of
Chapter 157 of this code of ordinances.  The commitment shall be enforced in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 157.  Any violation of any commitment for which a variance has been
granted shall constitute a nullification of that variance.
   (B)   In granting a use, special exception, or variance, the BZA may also
prescribe reasonable conditions or safeguards which will be in accordance with
all the following requirements.
      (1)   The condition or safeguard must be designed to protect natural
resources and the health, safety, and social or economic well-being of those
who use the land, and active consideration will be given to residents and
landowners adjacent to the proposed land use or activity.
      (2)   The condition or safeguard must be necessary to maintain the
purpose of this title or the standards established in this title for the land
use designated.
   (C)   The violation of any specified conditions or commitment required as a
part of granting a variance, use, or special exception will serve as a voidance
of the variance, use, or special exception upon issuance of a stop order by the
BZA or its designated representative.
(`88 Code, § 8-185)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 150.71  RULES AND PROCEDURES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may adopt any rules and procedures
necessary to effectuate the intended purposes of this title concerning conduct
of business and for filings and hearings on applications for use, variance,
special exception, or appeal.
   (B)   For the purpose of this title, all provisions enacted governing the
conduct of hearings and the filing of applications and not in contradiction
with I.C. 36-7-4 et seq. may be amended from time to time by the BZA as herein
provided.  The BZA may further adopt any additional rules governing procedures
as it deems necessary.
   (C)   The BZA may make amendments to the rules and procedures at the regular
scheduled meeting.  Amendments shall be by two-thirds vote of the BZA.
   (D)   The BZA may suspend, by unanimous consent of all the BZA members
present, rules and procedures as they deem necessary for the appropriate
conduct of any hearing.
(`88 Code, § 8-186)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
APPENDIX A:  FEEDLOTS; AREA REQUIREMENTS
   A feedlot is the confinement of livestock or fowl for any period of time to
any area less than required below, whether open or enclosed.
Class of Livestock Lot Area, Square Feet per Shed, Square Feet per Animal
                   Animal*
Class of Livestock          Lot Area, Square Feet per Shed, Square Feet per
                            Animal*                   Animal
Beef breeding cows          100                       80
Dairy cows                    250**                  150
Ewes                        60                        30
Feeder calves (under 600    60                        60
lbs.)
Feeder calves (over 600     80                        50
lbs.)
Feeder lambs                30                        14
Flock, commercial, per hen  8                         4
Flock, farm laying, per hen 12                        6
Hogs, finishing (100-255    24                        12
lbs.)
Hogs, growing (40-120 lbs.) 10                        6
Sows                        60                        30
Notes:
* For unpaved lots, double the space requirements.
** Double the lot size for complete confinement, such as no exercise lot.
 
(`88 Code, § 8-5)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
APPENDIX B:  FOSTER CARE HOMES; CATEGORIES
   Below are the categories of foster care homes, as defined by the state
Department of Social Service.
 
Prefix Type of Home        Number of Residents
CL     Congregate facility 21 or more
FA     Family home         1 through 6
LG     Large group home    13 through 20
MG     Medium group home   7 through 12
SG     Small group home    1 through 6
 
(`88 Code, § 8-5)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
CHAPTER 151:  BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Authority
   
151.04   Scope
   
151.05   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
151.06   Right of appeal
   
151.07   Violations, fines, and penalties
   
151.08   Design build concept
Construction Permits and Inspections
   
151.20   Permit required
   
151.21   Permits; application and review
   
151.22   Application of other ordinances
   
151.23   Inspections
   
151.24   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.25   Workmanship standards
   
151.26   Building permit fees; general
   
151.27   Building permit fees; schedule
Standards
   
151.40   Road width requirements
   
151.41   Soil survey maps
   
151.42   Fences
   
151.43   Mailboxes
   
151.44   Building numbers
Contractor Registration
   
151.55   Registration permit required
   
151.56   Registration authority; Building Commissioner
   
151.57   Subcontractors; registration required
   
151.58   Building permit; contractor registration required
   
151.59   Application procedure
   
151.60   Application; cause for rejection
   
151.61   Insurance and bond required
   
151.62   Registration permit and renewal; fees
   
151.63   Registration permit not transferable
Unsafe Buildings
   
151.75   Purpose
   
151.76   Administration
   
151.77   Minimum standards
   
151.78   Unsafe Building Fund
   
151.79   Violations
   
151.80   Order format
Underground Storage Tanks
   
151.90   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
151.91   Definitions
   
151.92   Local permit required
   
151.93   Standards and guidelines for removal
   
151.94   Violation and penalties
   
Appendix:     Order of Unsafe Building
Cross-reference:
   Administration and enforcement, see §§
150.15 through
150.21
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  TITLE.
   This chapter, and all sections supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the “Building Code” of the county, may be cited as such, and will be
referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(`88 Code, § 8-190)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, limb, health, environment, and public safety and welfare,
and for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings
and structures in the unincorporated areas of the county.
(`88 Code, § 8-191)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.03  AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce all of the provisions of this chapter. 
   (B)   Whenever in the building regulations it is provided that anything must
be done with the approval or subject to the direction of the Building
Commissioner or any other officer of the county, it shall be construed to give
that officer only the discretion of determining whether the rules and standards
established by this chapter have been complied with.  No provision shall be
construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what the
regulations, codes, or standards shall be, or power to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinances or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or
discriminatory manner.
(`88 Code, § 8-192)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.04  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy, and addition to all buildings and structures in the
unincorporated areas of the county.
(`88 Code, § 8-193)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.05  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The building rules of the state Department of Fire and Building Services, as
set out in the following articles of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative
Code, as well as later amendments, supplements, or additions to those articles
as the same are published in the Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative
Code, are hereby incorporated by reference in this code as rules and
regulations governing the construction, alteration, use, and occupancy of
buildings and structures within the county:
   (A)   675 I.A.C. 12-1.1-1 et seq., General Administrative Rules;
   (B)   675 I.A.C. 13-1 et seq., Building Codes:
      (1)   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
      (2)   State Building Code.
   (C)   675 I.A.C. 14-4.2-1 et seq., One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code;
   (D)   675 I.A.C. 15-1 et seq., Industrialized Building System:
      (1)   Special Administrative Rules; and
      (2)   State Mobile Structures Code.
   (E)   675 I.A.C. 16-1.3-1 et seq., Plumbing Code:
      (1)   State Plumbing Code; and
      (2)   Sanitary Engineer Standards.
   (F)   675 I.A.C. 17-1.5-1 et seq., Electrical Code;
   (G)   675 I.A.C. 18-1.3-1 et seq., Mechanical Code;
   (H)   675 I.A.C. 19-3-1, Energy Conservation Code;
   (I)   675 I.A.C. 20-3-1 et seq., Swimming Pool Code; and
   (J)   675 I.A.C. 22-1-1 et seq., Indiana Flammable and Combustible Liquids
and Gases Code.
(`88 Code, § 8-194)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.06  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   All persons aggrieved by a decision of the Building Commissioner or
his or her representative regarding the interpretation or decision based on
this chapter shall have the right of appeal.  An appeal must be made within 15
days from the date of any decision made by the Building Commissioner or his or
her representative, by request in writing to the Building Commissioner within
that period of time, with the basis and need for the appeal.
   (B)   The person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Building Commissioner
regarding §
151.06, §§
151.42 through
151.44, and §§
151.55 through
151.63 may appeal the same to the County Board of Commissioners within 15 days
from the date of the decision complained of.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners will set a hearing within 15 days after
receiving notice of the appeal and notify the petitioner of the date, time, and
place.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners may conduct the hearing or appoint a
designated representative to conduct the hearing and report the recommendations
and findings to the Board of Commissioners for final approval.
   (C)   Any person or association who is aggrieved by any decision of the
Building Commissioner or his or her representative in violation of fire and
building codes, §§
151.20 through
151.25, may appeal the decision within 15 days from the date of that decision
to the Board of Construction Review.  The Board of Construction Review will
then notify the petitioner within 15 days after receipt of the appeal of the
date, time, and place of the hearing to be conducted regarding the
interpretation of the fire and building codes.
      (1)   The Board of Construction Review shall consist of five people
appointed by the County Board of Commissioners for a term of three years.  In
order to provide for staggered terms, initial appointment to this Board shall
be as follows:
         (a)   Two members for a three-year period;
         (b)   Two members for a two-year period; and
         (c)   One member for a one-year period.
      (2)   To qualify for membership on the Board of Construction Review, an
individual candidate must have a working understanding of fire prevention and
the building safety code laws of the state, and/or be willing and able to
develop and understand the fire prevention and building safety code laws of the
state.  No more than two members may be registered contractors pursuant to this
chapter.
(`88 Code, § 8-600)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.07  VIOLATIONS, FINES, AND PENALTIES.
   The County Board of Commissioners shall adopt a schedule of fines and
penalties for violations of this chapter.  These fines and penalties shall
serve as a standardized method for assessments based on violations as
determined by the Building Commis- sioner or his or her representative.  The
assessment of fines and penalties will be utilized in lieu of court action for
any violation of this chapter.  In the event that court action is necessary for
enforcement of any provision of this chapter, the fines and penalties as
prescribed by §§ 150.15 through 150.21 shall apply.  Any payment of fines shall
be paid to the county Unsafe Building Fund.
(`88 Code, § 8-700)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.08  DESIGN BUILD CONCEPT.
   (A)   Laporte County may use design build concepts as provided by I.C. 5-30
for a public project.
   (B)   A Technical Review Committee is hereby established.  Its membership
shall consist of three members made up as follows:
      (1)   One member of the Board of Commissioners as selected by the Board
of Commissioners.
      (2)   Two additional members as selected by the Board of Commissioners
from:
         (a)   An architect registered under I.C. 25-31;
         (b)   A professional engineer registered under I.C. 25-3;
         (c)   A qualified contractor registered under I.C. 4-13-6.
   (C)   The Technical Review Committee does not have to be a standing
committee but may be organized for each individual public project however the
case may be.
   (D)   The Technical Review Committee shall follow all the procedures
prescribed by I.C. 5-30 as amended concerning use of, implementation of and
determination of qualified contractors regarding the design build concept in
the developing bids for use under the design build concept.
(Res. 2006-10, passed 6- -06)
CONSTRUCTION PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
§ 151.20  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning any construction or
alterations of any building in the county which requires a change or addition
to any support members or the installation of new plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, stationary or permanent, electrical wiring, installation of new
water heaters, and fireplaces and stoves, whether gas or wood burning.
   (B)   All permits shall be issued by the Building Commissioner and all fees
provided for herein shall be paid to the Office of the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   (1)   All permits issued by the Office of the Building Commissioner
shall expire if work has not begun within 120 days of the issuance of the
permit.  All permits will expire within two years from the date of issuance. 
      (2)   (a)   The Building Commissioner, at his or her discretion, may
extend the period for which work may begin under the issuance of any building
permit by a period of up to an additional 90 days, based on just cause. 
         (b)   The Building Commissioner may also extend the expiration date of
any building permit by any additional periods of up to 180 days if a reasonable
basis can be provided for the non-completion during the prior period, and
reasonable assurance that the permit can be completed within the prescribed
extended period of time. 
      (3)   In no event shall the Building Commissioner extend the building
permit for more than an additional one year.  If work cannot be completed under
the permit within the time period specified, a new permit must be obtained.
(`88 Code, § 8-195)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.21  PERMITS; APPLICATION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Application for permit. 
      (1)   No permits shall be issued under this chapter unless the
application for the permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location of any construction showing lot boundaries, floor plans, estimated
costs of construction, and specifications showing the work to be done. 
      (2)   All plans for building construction under the jurisdiction of the
state Fire and Building Code Services Department must also be filed with the
Building Commissioner.  No local permit will be issued unless the state
building permit release is furnished to the Building Commissioner, as the same
may be required pursuant to the provisions of 675 I.A.C. 1-1 et seq.
      (3)   Each contractor and subcontractor must be registered as a
contractor pursuant to this chapter.
      (4)   Nothing in this chapter will prevent a homeowner from performing
his or her own work so long as the required inspections are performed.
   (B)   Review of application.  Prior to the issuance of any building permit
hereunder, the Building Commissioner’s office shall:
      (1)   Review all building permit applications to determine full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and that all zoning requirements
are met;
      (2)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether the proposed building sites will
be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Determine that the applicant has a valid septic permit;
      (4)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
         (a)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         (b)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (5)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction, including prefabricated and
modular homes:
         (a)   Is protected against flood damage;
         (b)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
         (c)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(`88 Code, § 8-195)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.22  APPLICATION OF OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit issued under this chapter shall be in full
compliance with all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the
fees for permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid the fee
prescribed in that ordinance.
(`88 Code, § 8-196)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.23  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Required.  After the issuance of any building permit under this
chapter, the Building Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, those
inspections of the work being done under the permit as are necessary to insure
full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the terms of the
permit.
   (B)   Notice.  The contractor will be responsible to insure that the
Building Commissioner is notified of the need for an inspection. 
      (1)   An inspection should be performed within 48 hours after notice of
the need for an inspection. 
      (2)   If notice is provided on a Friday or the day before a holiday, the
inspection should occur on the next available working day.
   (C)   Entry.  Upon presentation of the proper credentials, the Building
Commissioner or his or her duly authorized representative may enter at
reasonable times, any building, structure, or premise in the county to perform
any duty imposed upon him or her by this chapter.
   (D)   Procedure.  After the issuance of any building permit, the Building
Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspection of the work
being done as is necessary to insure full compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and the terms of the permit.
      (1)   Re-inspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready for
inspection are subject to assessment of re-inspection fees as prescribed in
this chapter. 
      (2)   The Building Commissioner shall adopt rules regarding the number of
inspections and periods for which they should occur.
   (E)   Stop order.  Whenever any construction work is being done and is
contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the Building Commissioner, or his
or her  designated representative, shall order the work stopped by notice, in
writing, by serving the same on any person engaged in doing or causing work to
be done on that construction site, or if a person is not available, by leaving
a copy of the stop order attached to the prominent entrance to the building or
structure.  All work shall cease until further authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed.  Failure to stop work as ordered by the Building
Commissioner shall subject the individual responsible, general contractor and/
or subcontractor, and property owner, to fines and/or penalties or any remedies
as provided by §§
150.15 through
150.21 of this code.
(`88 Code, § 8-197)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.24  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected,
altered, or repaired after the effective date of this chapter shall be issued
unless that building or structure was erected, altered, or repaired in
compliance with this chapter. 
   (B)   In the event of any building which has already begun construction at
the adoption of this chapter, all inspections shall begin according to the
inspection schedule to be adopted by the Building Commissioner, depending on
the phase that the building is in at the time of the adoption of this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 8-198)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.25  WORKMANSHIP STANDARDS.
   All work under construction, alteration, and/or repair of buildings or other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to the
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(`88 Code, § 8-199)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.26  BUILDING PERMIT FEES; GENERAL.
   (A)   Permit fees apply to all new construction and all alterations,
repairs, and remodeling.
   (B)   No person, company, or corporation shall perform or cause to be
performed any work on or in the unincorporated areas of the county without
obtaining in advance a permit from the Building Department.
   (C)   Where a person shall unlawfully proceed to do any work or construction
without a required permit, the permit fees shall be tripled as a penalty.  The
payment of this penalty shall not release the person in default from any
penalties hereafter provided.
(Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.27  BUILDING PERMIT FEES; SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Single-family homes.  Fees do not include attached or detached garages
when constructed with the new residence.
      (1)   From 960 square feet to 2,500 square feet:  $.43 per square foot
($1,075 maximum).
      (2)   From 2,501 square feet to 5,000 square feet:  $.45 per square foot
($2,200 maximum, including the first 2,500 square feet).
      (3)   Over 5,000 square feet:  $.50 per square foot.
   (B)   Attached garage.  $.15 per square foot ($25 minimum).
   (C)   Multi-family units.  Same as single-family home fees on total square
footage, plus $50 per unit for all units over one.
   (D)   Alterations, repairs, or additions.  To all homes or lived-in
structures:  $.43 per square foot ($50 minimum).
   (E)   Commercial and industrial.  Will not be inspected other than site
location. 
      (1)   From zero to 1,500 square feet:  $100.
      (2)   Fifteen dollars per square foot thereafter, with a maximum of $750.
   (F)   Detached garage or accessory buildings, without electricity.
      (1)   From 145 square feet to 500 square feet:  $30;
      (2)   From 501 square feet to 1,000 square feet:  $45;
      (3)   From 1,001 square feet to 5,000 square feet:  $70; and
      (4)   From 5,001 square feet and over:  $100.
   (G)   Detached garage or accessory buildings, with electricity.
      (1)   From 145 square feet to 500 square feet:  $45;
      (2)   From 501 square feet to 1,000 square feet:  $60;
      (3)   From 1,001 square feet to 5,000 square feet:  $95; and
      (4)   From 5,001 square feet and over:  $140.
   (H)   Other inspections required for post-frame buildings (pole barns).
      (1)   Other inspections may be required at the discretion of the Building
Inspector.
      (2)   Any wiring or plumbing that is installed, prior to the covering of
walls or floors.
      (3)   Any post frame or detached garage used for living quarters will
require a single-family home permit and be inspected as such.
   (I)   Open decks.  $30.
   (J)   Enclosed decks or porches.  Without footings:  $45.
   (K)   Re-roof and re-side.  $20.
   (L)   Wood-burning stoves and fireplaces.  Per flue:  $15.
   (M)   Mobile home placement.  $150.
   (N)   Water heaters.  $15.
   (O)   Lawn sprinkling systems, residential or commercial.  Each lawn
sprinkler system on any one meter including backflow protection devices
thereof:  $20.
   (P)   Air conditioners replacement inspection.  $15.
   (Q)   Electrical upgrades, residential only.
      (1)   Up to 200 amps:  $30;
      (2)   From 201 amps and over:  $45; or
      (3)   Change box on existing service, no upgrade:  $15.
   (R)   In-ground pool.  Must be fenced with a 42-inch security fence:  $25.
   (S)   Signs and billboards.
      (1)   From 0 to 25 square feet:  $15;
      (2)   From 26 to 100 square feet:  $20;
      (3)   From 101 to 350 square feet:  $50; or
      (4)   From 351 square feet and over:  $75.
   (T)   Towers and site improvement.
      (1)   Per tower:  $100; or
      (2)   Per each locator on existing tower:  $50.
   (U)   Driveways.  $25.
   (V)   Each re-inspection fee.  $25.
   (W)   Each additional final inspection.  $50.
   (X)   Solar panels. $125 per 10 KW, plus additional $25 per each additional
10 KW at same site.
(Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01; Am. Ord. 2017-9, passed 9-25-17)
STANDARDS
§ 151.40  ROAD WIDTH REQUIREMENTS.
   All highways taken into the county system must be 50 feet wide with the
right-of-way donated.
(`88 Code, § 5-1)
§ 151.41  SOIL SURVEY MAPS.
   The county soil survey maps shall be kept on file and open to public
inspection in the Health, Building, and Planning Departments.
(`88 Code, § 5-2)
§ 151.42  FENCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful except as herein provided for any person or
association to construct or maintain any fence separating properties at a
height greater than six feet, six inches from the natural level of the ground,
provided this height limitation shall apply to open or woven wire or chain link
fences as erected by a park board, recreation commission, any church, school,
or other institutional authority, or any business within the county.  All panel
fences should be installed with the good or decorative side facing out. 
   (B)   All fences of any nature may not encroach upon any public easement or
right-of-way, nor obstruct vision for viewing traffic as a matter of ingress or
egress.
   (C)   Any person or association desiring to erect a fence higher than the
limit as set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above may petition the Board of
Zoning Appeals for a variance to permit a higher fence.  The petition shall be
presented the same as all petitions for variances before the county Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (D)   (1)   All swimming pools below the surface of the surrounding land
shall be completely enclosed by a fence.  The fence may not be less than four
feet in height and must be equipped with a gate at all points of entry unless
entry is directly from the main or accessory structure.  All gates and doors
shall be equipped with self-closing, self-latching devices.
      (2)   All outdoor swimming pools above the surface of the surrounding
land, if not surrounded by a fence, as provided in divisions (A) and (B), shall
be built where access to the pool may be had only by a ladder that can be
removed or raised and locked in place, and the wall of the pool and any fence
surrounding the platform around the pool must together be at least five feet in
height.
(`88 Code, § 8-300)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.43  MAILBOXES.
   (A)   Mailboxes along county roads may be placed and located as follows:
      (1)   On paved roads with paved shoulders, the face of the mailbox should
be at least four feet from the paved edge of the road;
      (2)   On paved roads with shoulders equal to or greater than three feet,
the face of the mailbox should be at least one foot from the paved edge of the
shoulder of the road.
      (3)   On paved roads with a raised curb, the face of the mailbox should
be at least six inches from the back of the curb;
      (4)   On gravel and dirt roads, the face of the mailbox should be at
least four feet from the traveled roadway;
      (5)   On roads with guardrails, the face of the mailbox should be at
least six inches behind the guardrail.
      (6)   On roads with inadequate shoulder and slopes greater than 13
degrees, the Highway Department shall assist the landowner to define and locate
an acceptable location for such mailbox.
      (7)   Mailboxes shall be located at least a minimum of 90 feet from the
centerline of any intersecting roads.
   (B)   The county will not be responsible for the replacement or repair of
any mailboxes that are damaged as a result of any road repairs or snow removal
activities that are placed in accordance with this section.
   (C)   The individual landowners will be responsible to maintain mailbox
approaches and the same shall not be the responsibility of the Highway
Department.
   (D)   All new mailbox locations will be inspected and approved by the
Highway Department as directed by the Highway Superintendent.
   (E)   Any individual who obtains a building permit for new construction
shall obtain as part of a driveway permit, a mailbox permit from the Building
Commissioner.
   (F)   Any individual who fails to place a mailbox according to these
provisions shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $100.
(`88 Code, § 8-400)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01; Am. Ord. 2003-12, passed 7-
15-03)
§ 151.44  BUILDING NUMBERS.
   (A)   Installation required.  All homeowners, building owners, and persons
having the charge or care of homes or other buildings in the county shall
install numbers designating the house number or building number of those houses
or buildings on the particular street on which the houses or buildings are
located.
   (B)   Determination of proper number.  If a homeowner or building owner is
uncertain as to the proper number of his or her building, he or she shall apply
to the office of the Building Commissioner to obtain a house number or building
number.
   (C)   Location and size.  House numbers shall be affixed to the portion of
the house facing the street on which the house or building is located, or on
the mailbox or post near the driveway entrance by the front of the residence. 
The numbers shall be affixed in a fashion to be readily visible to motorists or
pedestrians on the roadway.  The numbers shall be a minimum size of three
inches in height. 
   (D)   Condition of occupancy permit.  No permits for occupancy shall be
issued until house numbers are affixed to the building pursuant to this
chapter.
(` 88 Code, § 8-500)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION
§ 151.55  REGISTRATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who engages in the business of general, roof, insulation,
electrical, plumbing, sewage, masonry, well installation, heating, ventilation,
air conditioning, excavating, and septic installation, or other ancillary work
related to construction in the county, shall first procure a contractor’s
registration permit. 
   (B)   There shall be only one registration permit per contractor.  The
contractor will list the specified fields of work in which the contractor will
perform the construction work. 
   (C)   The registration permit shall be on a form prescribed by the Building
Commissioner. 
   (D)   In the case of applications by corporations, partnerships, or other
forms of business associations, the application for a contractor’s registration
permit may be made by an officer or other designated employee of the business
association, corporation, or partnership.
(`88 Code, § 8-200)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.56  REGISTRATION AUTHORITY; BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall have the power and duty to receive all
applications for registration for all crafts and trades. 
   (B)   He or she shall review the application and approve or disapprove the
application for registration.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall have the right to revoke or suspend
any registration issued, upon his or her investigation, upon satisfactory proof
that the holder of the registration permit has willfully, intentionally, or
repeatedly violated any provisions of this chapter or laws of the state
pertaining to his or her business, for incompetence or misconduct in the
practice of his or her business, for deceit or fraud in obtaining the
registration, for irresponsible financial practices, or for any other reason or
ground specified in this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 8-200)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.57  SUBCONTRACTORS; REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   A general contractor must insure that all subcontractors are registered
pursuant to this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 8-200)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.58  BUILDING PERMIT; CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   The Building Commissioner shall not issue a building permit if the
contractors, general contractor or subcontractor, are not registered as
provided in this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 8-200)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.59  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   The Building Commissioner shall require all applicants to furnish the
following information:
   (A)   A statement of the applicant’s proposed contracting business;
   (B)   The type of contractor’s registration applied for;
   (C)   Name, residence, and business address of the applicant;
   (D)   If the applicant is a partnership, joint venture, corporation, or
other type of business association or firm, the name and business address of
the organization, the name and residence of all officers, directors, and
partners, as the case may be, and their interest in the organization;
   (E)   A list of all businesses owned, operated, and managed by the
applicant, or in which the applicant has had an interest of any kind during the
last five years, and the addresses of these businesses;
   (F)   Three references from reputable business and professional people, not
related by blood or marriage to the applicant, from the county of the
applicant, attesting to the applicant’s reputation as to honesty, integrity,
and good character; and
   (G)   A statement, under oath, that the applicant has not been convicted of
a felony during the past five years and that the applicant is not presently
indicted or charged with having committed a felony.
(`88 Code, § 8-200)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.60  APPLICATION; CAUSE FOR REJECTION.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall reject the application if he or she
finds:
      (1)   The applicant has committed an act within the past three years
which, if committed or done by a registered contractor, would be grounds for
suspension or revocation of a registration permit;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime within the past five
years involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or lack of integrity, whereby the
applicant has been benefitted or whereby some injury has been sustained by
another; or
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a felony during the past five
years.
   (B)   The decision of the Building Commissioner to reject an application
shall be subject to review by the Board of Commissioners of the county, which
shall affirm or reverse the decision upon a majority vote at a public hearing. 
All decisions of the Building Commissioner shall be final, subject to the
appeal procedure set forth in § 151.06.
(`88 Code, § 8-200)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.61  INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before being granted a contractor’s permit, each applicant shall show
the following proof of insurance and file the same with the Building
Commissioner:
      (1)   Public liability and property damage insurance in an amount not
less than $300,000 in the case of damage or injury to one person, and not less
than $500,000 in case of damage or injury to more than one person, and $50,000
property damage, or $500,000 bodily injury and property damage combined single
limit; and
      (2)   Worker’s compensation insurance coverage as required by state law.
   (B)   Each contractor shall show proof of a $10,000 bond payable to the
county for each construction project to be performed in the event that the
construction project is unable to be completed or if any violation occurs of
this chapter for which corrective action must be taken by the county.
   (C)   All insurance and bond shall be issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state.  Failure to provide a certificate of
insurance and bond, or allowing the same to lapse, shall be grounds for
rejection of the contractor’s registration permit.
(`88 Code, § 8-200)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.62  REGISTRATION PERMIT AND RENEWAL; FEES.
   (A)   After proper application, the Building Commissioner will issue a
contractor’s registration permit.  The applicant will pay a fee of $150 for the
issuance of the first permit, which shall be good for a 12-month period.
   (B)   Once a contractor has had a registration permit issued, renewal of the
permit will be automatic from year to year on each anniversary date with the
payment of a $100 fee.  Failure to renew a registration permit within ten days
after notice of expiration will constitute a need for a re-application for the
permit.
(`88 Code, § 8-200)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
§ 151.63  REGISTRATION PERMIT NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   The registration permit issued by the Building Commissioner shall not be
transferable to any other firm, name, or business other than the name to which
it was issued.
(`88 Code, § 8-200)  (Ord. 2001-03, passed 2-13-01)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.75  PURPOSE.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby adopted by reference as the county
Unsafe Building Code.  All proceedings within the county for the inspection,
repair, and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by that law and the
provisions of this subchapter.  In the event the provisions of this subchapter
conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, then the
provisions of the state statute shall control.  Any repeal of the statute shall
not act as a repeal of this subchapter.
(`88 Code, § 8-200)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 151.76  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The administration of the provisions of this subchapter shall be the
responsibility of the Office of the Building Commissioner. 
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall be the enforcement authority and the
county Board of Zoning Appeals shall be the hearing authority within the
meaning of those terms as defined in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
(`88 Code, § 8-201)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 151.77  MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The definition of and description of an unsafe building set forth in
I.C. 36-7-9-4 is hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building
condition or maintenance in the county, by adding the following to the
definition.
   (B)   Any building or structure which has any or all of the conditions or
defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an unsafe building,
provided that the conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health,
property, or safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location;
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to the extent that the structural strength
or stability thereof is materially less than it was before the catastrophe and
is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of similar structure,
purpose, or location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for those buildings;
      (6)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, is
likely to partially or completely collapse because of the following:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting the building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause.
      (8)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly made unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (9)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to a great enough extent that a plumb line passing
through the center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the
base;
      (10)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls, or coverings;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   A harbor for vagrants or criminals.
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists,
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to the building or structure provided by the building regulations of
this county, or of any law or ordinance of this state relating to the
condition, location, or structure of buildings;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-
supporting part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part,
member, or portion less than 66% of the following as required by law in the
case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, and occupancy in the
same location:
         (a)   Strength;
         (b)   Fire-resisting qualities or char- acteristics; and
         (c)   Weather-resisting characteristics.
      (14)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the enforcement authority
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in a condition that is likely
to cause sickness or disease;
      (15)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electrical wiring, gas
connections, or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the
enforcement authority to be a fire hazard;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure is in a condition to constitute
a public nuisance known to the common law or equity jurisprudence; or
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or is
abandoned for a period in excess of six months so as to constitute an
attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
(`88 Code, § 8-202)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 151.78  UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
enforcement authority, in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(`88 Code, § 8-203)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 151.79  VIOLATIONS.
   A person who does any of the following shall be subject to the same fines,
penalties, and/or remedies as provided by §§
150.15 through
150.21:
   (A)   Remains in, uses, or enters a building in violation of an order made
under this subchapter;
   (B)   Knowingly interferes with or delays the carrying out of an order made
under this subchapter;
   (C)   Knowingly obstructs, damages, or interferes with persons engaged or
property used in performing any work or duty under this subchapter; or
   (D)   Fails to comply with I.C. 36-7-9-27 (incorporated herein by
reference).
(`88 Code, § 8-204)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 151.80  ORDER FORMAT.
   The order shown in the
Appendix to this chapter will be issued to a person whose building is found to
be unsafe.
(`88 Code, § 8-205)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS
§ 151.90  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   Any amendments of I.C. 13-23-3 et seq. shall be further incorporated by
reference herein and be a part of this code.
(Ord. 2001-2, passed 1-30-01)
§ 151.91  DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions contained in I.C. 13-23-3 et seq., as it may be amended, are
adopted herein, these definitions to be used in this subchapter except to the
extent that other terms and conditions of this subchapter may dictate
otherwise.
(`88 Code, § 6-115)  (Ord. 91-4, passed 3-11-91; Am. Ord. 2001-2, passed 1-30-
01)
§ 151.92  LOCAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person engaging in any activity for which certification is
required pursuant to I.C. 13-23-3 et seq., as it may be amended, shall obtain a
local permit for that activity from the county Emergency Planning Coordinator. 
Application for the permit shall be made at least 20 days prior to the closure,
installation, testing, retrofitting, or removal of any underground storage
tank.  The county Emergency Planning Coordinator shall prepare a written
application form for the issuance of the local permit.  A permit fee in the
amount of $100 per site shall be tendered with each application for a local
permit.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a local permit under this subchapter, the
applicant shall show proof of notification as required by 40 CFR 280 and 281 as
well as proof of the issuance of a letter to proceed by the state Department of
Environmental Management.
   (C)   The closure, installation, testing, retrofitting or removal of any
underground storage tank in the county shall be done only by a person holding a
vital certification for that activity pursuant to I.C. 13-23-3 et seq., as it
may be amended from time to time.
(`88 Code, § 6-116)  (Ord. 91-4, passed 3-11-91; Am. Ord. 2001-2, passed 1-30-
01)
§ 151.93  STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   Any closure, installation, testing, retro- fitting, or removal of an
underground storage tank in the county shall be done in accordance with the
following standards and guidelines:
      (1)   American Petroleum Institute Guide 1604, 2215, and 2215A;
      (2)   National Fire Protection Association Guide 30;
      (3)   Any and all applicable federal and state regulations; and
      (4)   Local regulations promulgated by the county Emergency Planning
Coordinator.  A copy of the county permit issued pursuant to this subchapter by
the county Emergency Planning Coordinator shall be prominently displayed at all
excavation sites for inspection by the county Emergency Planning Coordinator
and the local fire department with jurisdiction of the area.
   (B)   The locally issued permit under the provisions of this subchapter
shall contain a date for the commencing of excavation.  Any change in the date
for the commencement of excavation under this subchapter shall be immediately
communicated to the county Emergency Planning Coordinator and the local fire
department having jurisdiction in the area.
   (C)   (1)   The county Emergency Planning Coordinator shall be provided with
a copy of any and all documentation, information, or reports submitted to the
state Department of Environmental Management pursuant to I.C. 13-23-3 et seq.,
as it may be amended. 
      (2)   The county Emergency Planning Coordinator shall be provided with a
copy of all sampling test results done at each excavation site under the
provisions of this subchapter within 15 days of the permit holder’s receipt of
the sampling test results. 
      (3)   The county Emergency Planning Coordinator shall be provided with a
copy of all disposal records within 15 days of the disposal of all liquids or
sludges removed from any underground storage tank pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter. 
      (4)   The county Emergency Planning Coordinator shall also be advised as
to the proposed procedure for the disposal of soil associated with the
excavation activities regulated by this subchapter and shall be immediately
notified of any ground water contamination or soil contamination which may be
found to be present in conjunction with the activities regulated by this
subchapter.  Any soil excavated under the provisions of this subchapter shall
be placed on plastic and covered in order to limit further contamination of the
environment.
   (D)   The county Emergency Planning Coordinator shall determine the type and
extent of necessary safety and monitoring equipment needed at the site of each
excavation undertaken pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.  The
permit holder shall be responsible for insuring the presence of safety and
monitoring equipment at each excavation site and shall be responsible for
insuring that all safety and monitoring equipment is in working order.
   (E)   The county Emergency Planning Coordinator shall receive copies of any
and all plans for remedial action if any is required at any excavation site
regulated by the provisions of this subchapter.  Upon completion of remedial
action at any excavation site regulated by the provisions of this subchapter,
the county Emergency Planning Coordinator shall be provided with a copy of the
permit holder’s final report concerning the completion of remedial action at
the site.
   (F)   A person certified pursuant to I.C. 13-23-3 et seq., as it may be
amended, shall be present during any excavation work done under the provisions
of this subchapter.
(`88 Code, § 6-117)  (Ord. 91-4, passed 3-11-91; Am. Ord. 2001-2, passed 1-30-
01)
§ 151.94  VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Failure of any person to comply with any provision of this subchapter
shall result in the issuance, by the local fire department with jurisdiction of
the area or by the county Emergency Planning Coordinator, of an order requiring
immediate compliance with the provisions of this subchapter or the suspension
of excavation activities regulated by this subchapter.
   (B)   Violation of any of the provisions, terms, or conditions of this
subchapter shall be punishable by a fine.
(`88 Code, § 6-118)  (Ord. 91-4, passed 3-11-91) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
APPENDIX:  ORDER OF UNSAFE BUILDING
To:   ___________________________________________________________
You are hereby notified that the LaPorte County Building Commissioner has
determined that an unsafe building exists on the real estate located at
___________________________________________________.  Commonly known
as_____________________________.  Said building is described as follows:
_____________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________.
You are hereby ordered, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-5 and to the LaPorte County
Unsafe Building Ordinance, Sections
______________________________________________________________________________,
to:
____Vacate the unsafe building
____Seal the unsafe building
____Exterminate vermin in and about the unsafe building
____Repair the unsafe building to bring it in compliance with LaPorte County
Ordinance
____Specifically, you must do the following:
____Remove a part of the unsafe building as follows:
You must complete the action ordered within ______ days of your receipt of this
order.
Rights to Hearing
____This order shall be deemed to be a final order within fifteen (15) days of
the day of notice unless you or any other person holding a legal interest in
the real estate request a hearing.  Said request must be in writing and
delivered to the LaPorte County Building Commissioner on the 5th floor of the
LaPorte County Complex, LaPorte, Indiana within the fifteen (15) days as
provided above.
____Hearing shall be before the LaPorte County Board of Zoning Appeals on the
_______day of _____________, 20______, at _________ a.m./p.m., in the Assembly
Room of the LaPorte County Complex.  You are entitled to appear at the hearing
with or without legal council, present evidence, cross-examine opposing
witnesses, and present arguments.  Failure to appear at said hearing shall
result in this order being made a final order.
Remarks:
__________________________________________________________________________________
Failure to Comply
Should you fail to comply with this order after it becomes final, the County of
LaPorte may take such steps as are necessary to complete the action order.  You
shall be responsible for all costs of said action.  The county may also file a
lawsuit against you asking that the court order you to comply with this order
and civil forfeiture not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500)
per day per violation.
Recording of Order
The county may record this order in the Office of the LaPorte County Recorder. 
Any person taking an interest in the unsafe building shall be subject to the
terms and conditions of this order.
Date: ______________________________
   LaPorte County Building Commissioner
   5th Floor, LaPorte County Complex
   LaPorte, Indiana 46350
   Telephone:  219-326-6808
(`88 Code, § 8-205)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
CHAPTER 152:  MANUFACTURED HOUSING AND MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
152.01   Intent
   
152.02   Standards
   
152.03   Temporary use; permits
Cross-reference:
   Administration and enforcement, see §§
150.15 through
150.21
   Private sewage disposal systems, see §§
51.15 through
51.20
§ 152.01  INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to encourage the provision of alternative
modest income housing in general residential areas by permitting the use of
certain manufactured homes, as defined herein, in all districts in which
similar dwellings constructed on-site are permitted, subject to the
requirements and procedures set forth herein to assure acceptable similarity in
exterior appearance between manufactured homes and dwellings that have been or
might be constructed under these and other lawful regulations on adjacent or
nearby lots in the same district.
(`88 Code, § 8-35)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 152.02  STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permitted placement.  The establishment, location, and use of
manufactured homes as permanent residences approved individually, by specific
materials, or by design, shall be permitted in any zone permitting installation
of a dwelling unit, subject to requirements and limitations applying generally
to residential use in the district, and provided these homes shall meet the
following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   The dwelling shall meet all require- ments applicable to single-
family dwellings and possess all necessary permits.
      (2)   The dwelling shall meet the minimum square footage requirements for
the zoning district in which it is to be located and must be 23 feet in width;
and constructed after 1981.
      (3)   The dwelling shall be attached and anchored to a permanent
foundation in conformance with the regulations in the state One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code and with manufacturer’s installation specifications.
      (4)   The home shall be covered with an exterior material customarily
used on site-built residential dwellings, and the material shall extend over
the top of the foundation.  These approved materials include:
         (a)   Residential horizontal aluminum lap siding;
         (b)   Residential horizontal vinyl lap siding;
         (c)   Cedar or other wood siding;
         (d)   Stucco siding; and
         (e)   Brick or stone siding.
      (5)   The home shall have a roof composed of a material customarily used
on site-built residential dwellings, such as fiberglass, shake, asphalt, or
tile, which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately pitched for the
materials used.
      (6)   There may be one mobile home (trailer) per lot.
      (7)   Additional mobile home restrictions:
         (a)   Mobile homes shall be used for residential purposes only.
         (b)   No rental of mobile homes except in mobile home parks.
         (c)   Mobile homes may not be used as storage units on residential
parcels as well as any vans, truck boxes, semi trailers or railroad cars.
   (B)   Permanent perimeter enclosure.  Those manufactured homes designated as
requiring a permanent perimeter enclosure must be set onto an excavated area,
with foundations, footings, and crawl space or basement walls constructed in
accordance with the terms of the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code.  The space
between the floor joists of the home and the excavated under floor grade shall
be completely enclosed with the permanent perimeter enclosure, except for
required openings.
   (C)   Foundation siding and skirting (for temporary structures). 
      (1)   All manufactured or mobile homes without a permanent perimeter
enclosure shall have an approved foundation siding or skirting enclosing the
entire perimeter of the home. 
         (a)   Foundation siding or skirting and back-up framing shall be
weather-resistant, non-combustible, or self-extinguishing materials, which
blend with the exterior siding of the home.  Below grade level for a minimum
distance of six inches above finish grade, the materials shall be unaffected by
decay or oxidation. 
         (b)   The siding shall be installed in accordance with manufacturer’s
recommendations or approved equal standards. 
      (2)   The siding shall be ventilated by openings, which shall have a net
area of not less than one and one-half square feet for each 25 linear feet of
exterior perimeter.  The openings shall be covered with corrosion resistant
wire mesh not larger than one- half inch in any dimension. 
      (3)   The under floor area shall be provided with an 18 inch by 24 inch
minimum size access crawl hole, which shall not be blocked by pipes, ducts, or
other construction interfering with the accessibility of the under floor space
or other approved access mechanism.
   (D)   Placement with variance.  Manufactured homes not meeting the
conditions contained in division (A) above and mobile homes can be permitted
within the county only after receiving a variance from the Board of Zoning
Appeals, with the exception of an approved mobile home park.
   (E)   Structural alteration.  No alteration may be made to, or to enclose,
the mobile home for purposes of increasing the usable living area or providing
additional storage area, with the exception of manufacturer approved and
constructed add-a-room or expanded unit.
(`88 Code, § 8-36)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-6-
05)
§ 152.03  TEMPORARY USE; PERMITS.
   (A)   Circumstances for permit issuance.  Subject to conditions, fees, and
standards otherwise required by this title, a temporary use permit may be
issued:
      (1)   To an applicant to use a manufactured or mobile home as a
construction office at a job site;
      (2)   To an applicant whose own health or health of another necessitates
care, and emergency situations where the facts show that an unnecessary
hardship would occur if not permitted to locate a manufactured or mobile home
adjacent to the residence of one who is able to provide care or in need of
care; or
      (3)   If a home is burned, a mobile home could be placed on the property
by order of the Building Commissioner prior to the granting of the variance. 
No more than one mobile home should be allowed on a parcel of land.
   (B)   Length of permit.  A temporary use permit may be issued, at the
discretion of the Plan Commission’s designated administrator, for a period not
to exceed six months.
   (C)   Permit expiration.  At the time the temporary permit expires, the
manufactured or mobile home and all appurtenances shall be removed from the
property unless a variance has been granted by the BZA.
   (D)   Utility requirements.  Manufactured or mobile homes used for temporary
uses shall have an approved water supply, sewage disposal system, and utility
connections, where appropriate, and at the discretion of the Plan Commission’s
designated administrator.
(`88 Code, § 8-37)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Policy
   
153.002   Purposes
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Interpretation and application
   
153.005   Covenant provisions
   
153.006   Establishment of control
   
153.007   Conformance with design and improvement standards
Proposed Subdivisions; Approval Procedure
   
153.020   Approval required
   
153.021   Approval procedure
   
153.022   Sketch plat
   
153.023   Application for primary approval
   
153.024   Staff review
   
153.025   Plan Commission; preliminary review
   
153.026   Plan Commission; primary approval
   
153.027   Plan Commission; secondary approval
   
153.028   County Commissioners; final approval
   
153.029   Industrial and commercial subdivisions
   
153.030   Minor subdivisions
   
153.031   Time lines, miscellaneous
Platting Procedures and Plans
   
153.040   Primary plat requirements
   
153.041   Construction plans
   
153.042   Roadway design calculations
   
153.043   Construction summary report
   
153.044   Primary plat
   
153.045   Secondary plat requirements
   
153.046   As-built subdivision plans
   
153.047   Secondary bond
   
153.048   Final approval requirements
   
153.049   Requirements for commercial and industrial property
Vacation of Plats
   
153.060   Application procedures
   
153.061   Public hearing
   
153.062   Final decision
   
153.063   Plat vacation; record
   
153.064   Subdivision plat changes
Principles of Design for Residential Subdivisions
   
153.075   Streets
   
153.076   Blocks
   
153.077   Lots
   
153.078   Easements
   
153.079   Building lines
   
153.080   Public open spaces
Standards of Improvement for  Residential Subdivisions
   
153.090   Application of state law
   
153.091   Monuments or markers
   
153.092   Streets
   
153.093   Sewers
   
153.094   Water
   
153.095   Storm drainage
   
153.096   Curbs and gutters
   
153.097   Sidewalks
   
153.098   Signs
Principles of Design for Industrial  and Commercial Development
   
153.110   Streets
   
153.111   Blocks
   
153.112   Lots
   
153.113   Easements
   
153.114   Building lines
Standards of Improvement for Industrial and Commercial Development
   
153.125   Application of state law
   
153.126   Monuments or markers
   
153.127   Streets
   
153.128   Sewers
   
153.129   Water
   
153.130   Storm drainage
   
153.131   Curbs and gutters
   
153.132   Signs
   
Appendix A:   Secondary Plat Certificates
   
Appendix B:   Minimum Design for Street Pavement
   
Appendix C:   Aggregate Base Specifications
   
Appendix D:   Thoroughfare Plan
   
Appendix E:   Minimum Standards for Highways in all Subdivisions
Cross-reference:
   Administration and enforcement, see §§
150.15  through
150.21
   Sewers, see
Chapter 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the county to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivision plat as
subject to the control of the county pursuant to the official Master Plan of
the county for the orderly, efficient, and economical development of the
county.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of a character that can be used safely
for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire, flood, or
other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until available public
facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for
drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks,
recreation facilities, transportation facilities, and improvements.
   (C)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the proposals shown in the Master Plan of the county.  It
is intended that these regulations shall supplement and facilitate the
enforcement of the provisions and standards contained in county building and
housing codes,
Chapter 157 of this code, Master Plan, official map and land use plan, and
capital budget and program.
(`88 Code, § 8-73)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.002  PURPOSES.
   These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the county;
   (B)   To guide the future growth and development of the county in accordance
with the Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   (1)   To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy;
      (2)   To secure from fire, flood, and other danger; and
      (3)   To prevent overcrowding of land and undue congestion of population.
   (D)   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the county, and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of
all parts of the county;
   (E)   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the county and
the value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
   (F)   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient trans- portation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, play-
grounds, recreation, and other public requirements and facilities;
   (G)   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the county, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines;
   (H)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land; and to insure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land;
   (I)   To insure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision;
   (J)   (1)   To encourage prevention of the pollution of air, streams, and
ponds; to assure the adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water
table; and
      (2)   To encourage the wise use management of natural resources
throughout the county in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty
of the community and the value of the land.
   (K)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the county and to
insure appropriate development with regard to these natural features; and
   (L)   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and
layout of the land, including the use of average density in providing for
minimum width and area of lots, while preserving the density of land as
established in
Chapter 157 of this code.
(`88 Code, § 8-74)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.003  JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Hereafter no subdivision or resubdivision of any lot, tract, or parcel
of land shall be effected, nor shall any street, sanitary sewer, storm sewer,
water main, or other facility in connection therewith be laid out, constructed,
opened, or dedicated for public use or travel or for the common use of
occupants of buildings abutting thereon, except in strict accordance with the
provisions of the regulations herein set forth.
   (B)   (1)   No lot in a subdivision shall be sold, nor shall a permit to
erect, alter, or repair any building upon land in a subdivision be issued, nor
any building erected in a subdivision, unless or until a subdivision plan has
been approved and recorded, and until the improvements required by the county
in connection therewith have either been constructed or guaranteed, as herein
provided. 
      (2)   An unrecorded subdivision, previously approved by the Plan
Commission and County Commissioners, shall remain in the jurisdiction of the
Board of Zoning Appeals until the time that it is recorded with the County
Recorder’s office and all applicable fees and permits are paid and issued.
      (3)   A subdivision may not be redivided and/or sold unless platted and
approved by the Plan Commission.
(`88 Code, § 8-75)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.004  INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Minimum requirements.  In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Public provisions. 
      (1)   These regulations are not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or
annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of
law.
      (2)   Where provisions of these regulations conflict with restrictions
different from those imposed by any provision of these regulations or any other
ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, then whichever
provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall control.
   (C)   Private provisions. 
      (1)   These regulations are not intended to abrogate any easement,
covenant, or any other private agreement or restriction, provided that where
the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or restrictions than the easement, covenant, or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern. 
      (2)   Where the provisions of the easement, covenant, or private
agreement or restriction impose duties and obligations more restrictive, or
higher standards than the requirements of these regulations or the
determinations of the Plan Commission or the municipality in approving a
subdivision or in enforcing these regulations, and the private provisions are
not inconsistent with these regulations or determinations thereunder, then the
private provisions shall be operative and supplemental to these regulations and
determinations made thereunder.
(`88 Code, § 8-76)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.005  COVENANT PROVISIONS.
   When required by the Plan Commission, covenants must include at least the
following provisions satisfactory to the Commission:
   (A)   Adequate provision for an organization with direct responsibility to,
and control by, the property owners involved, to provide for the operation and
maintenance of any common facilities jointly shared by those owners; and
   (B)   A financial guarantee that satisfactory maintenance will be provided
for any common facilities in accordance with standards prescribed by the
property owners’ organizations and set forth in the covenants, and that the
facilities will be operated and maintained at no expense to the county or any
other governmental unit.
(`88 Code, § 8-76)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.006  ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL.
   No plat or re-plat of a subdivision of land located within the jurisdiction
of the Commission shall be recorded until it shall have been approved by the
Commission, and the approval shall have been entered in writing on the plat by
the officials so designated by this title (I.C. 36-7-4-710(d)).
(`88 Code, § 8-77)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.007  CONFORMANCE WITH DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   The subdivision plan shall conform to the principles and standards of design
as set forth in §§
153.075 through
153.132 and Appendices
B and
C to this chapter, in order to qualify for primary approval (I.C. 36-7-4-702).
(`88 Code, §§ 8-109, 8-115)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
Statutory reference:
   Primary plat approval and standards, see  I.C. 36-7-4-702
PROPOSED SUBDIVISIONS; APPROVAL PROCEDURE
§ 153.020  APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever any subdivision of land lying within the jurisdiction of the
Commission is proposed, before any permit for the erection of a structure in
the proposed subdivision shall be granted, the subdividing owner, or his or her
authorized agent, shall apply for and secure approval of the proposed
subdivision in accordance with the following procedure, described further in §
153.021 and in the remainder of this subchapter:
      (1)   Application (I.C. 36-7-4-703);
      (2)   Staff review (I.C. 36-7-4-705);
      (3)   Plan Commission:  preliminary review;
      (4)   Plan Commission:  primary approval (I.C. 36-7-4-707(a));
      (5)   Plan Commission:  secondary approval (I.C. 36-7-4-710(a)); and
      (6)   County Commissioners:  final approval.
   (B)   A subdivider shall submit a written application therefor to the Plan
Commission.  The application shall be accompanied by the information,
requirements, and plans set forth in §
153.023.
(`88 Code, § 8-78)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.021  APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   The following procedures are based on those contained in §§
153.020 through
153.045.  These sections shall be read in a manner consistent with the
procedures as outlined herein.  If the timeline as in all sections are in
conflict with these procedures, these procedures shall apply and take
precedence.
   (A)   Step 1: Application.  The applicant shall:
      (1)   Make written application.
      (2)   Pay the required fee.
      (3)   Submit preliminary plat.  This may include entire proposed
subdivision and a preliminary proposed outline of the entire subdivision with
specifics for the initial phase.
         (a)   The preliminary plat will show potential lots and potential
streets.
         (b)   The initial phase will have all the necessary technical data for
complete review which will include actual plotted lots, streets, storm water
and drainage references.
         (c)   The developer may include the entire plat of the entire
subdivision or based on phase which is a general overview in the preliminary
plat regarding the entire subdivision.  Subsequent phases must show how the
technical data regarding drainage, etc. will tie into the initial phase
constructed for all previous stages.
   (B)   Step 2: Staff review.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the application for subdivision proposal, the staff
shall review application within 30 days for technical conformity and return
marked copies to the applicant for corrections.
      (2)   After the correction of any application, the staff will refer the
same to the Plat Committee for review.
   (C)   Step 3: Plat Committee review.  Review to be based on technical
conformity requirements of the ordinance, drainage issues, septic and any other
technical requirements.
   (D)   Step 4: Staff action.  After a Plat Committee review, the staff will
set this matter for public hearing.  The applicant will publish notice of the
public hearing and notify adjoining landowners.  The applicant will further
provide a copy of any plans in sufficient number for all members of the Plan
Commission for review.
   (E)   Step 5: Plan Commission, preliminary review.
      (1)   Applicant will submit preliminary sketches of subdivision
proposals.
      (2)   Plan Commission will review for drainage issues, ingress and egress
issues.
      (3)   Plan Commission will further review for appropriateness of
subdivision in this location and generally any points to be concerned about for
a subdivision development.
      (4)   Preliminary approval.
   (F)   Step 6: Plan Commission action, primary approval.
      (1)   Prepare completed subdivision plans with copies to all Plan
Commission members ten days before such Plan Commission hearing.  Such plans
will also include constructions, drawings and topographical surveys as
completed.
      (2)   The developer is to provide notice to adjoining landowners and of
public hearing if applicable if at the hearing on the preliminary approval did
not specify a continuation date.
         (a)   If the Plan Commission grants primary plat approval it shall:
            1.   Make written findings.
            2.   Sign the Commission decision.
            3.   Set the amounts for appropriate bond and the date for
completion of improvements.
         (b)   If the Plan Commission disapproves the primary plat it shall:
            1.   Make written findings.
            2.   Sign the Commission decision.
   (G)   Step 7: County Commissioners final approval.
      (1)   The plat must be submitted to the County Commissioners within one
year from the primary approval from the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The applicant must have certification from the Building
Commissioner that the plat is the same as approved by the Plan Commission.
      (3)   The County Commissioners determine road bonds based on the
recommendation of the County Highway Engineer and action to be taken by the
developer.
      (4)   The developer must provide notice of a public hearing before the
Commissioners before the approval of such subdivision.
   (H)   Step 8: Recordation.
      (1)   The applicant must record such approval within 60 days from final
approval by the County Commissioners.
      (2)   The applicant must provide a recorded copy to the Building
Commissioner.
(`88 Code, §8-6, Exhibit A)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2005-11,
passed 9-6-05)
§ 153.022  SKETCH PLAT.
   (A)   Prior to the submission of a subdivision, the subdivider is encouraged
to meet with the Plat Committee or Plan Commission.  The intent is to create an
understanding between the subdivider and the Plan Commission which may help
alleviate future misunderstandings and revision. 
   (B)   (1)   This meeting would allow the subdivider to inform the Plat
Committee or Plan Commission of the nature of the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   Conversely, it affords the Plat Committee or Plan Commission the
opportunity to acquaint the subdivider with the procedure for approval and
inform him or her of potential problems between the proposed design and the
requirements outlined in the code. 
   (C)   The subdivider may present a rough sketch plat of the proposed
subdivision to the Plat Committee or Plan Commission.  The sketch plat may be
especially useful to a subdivider who has a project which is unusually large
and complex.
(`88 Code, § 8-79)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.023  APPLICATION FOR PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   The subdivider, desiring to subdivide a parcel of land, shall apply
for approval of a plat at the office of the county Plan Commission.
   (B)   The written application shall be accompanied by a certified check or
money order in the amount set by the Commission.
   (C)   (1)   At the time of application, a minimum of three copies of the
location map, primary plat, and associated reports shall be filed, as explained
below in §
153.040.
      (2)   At the time of application, three copies of the legal description
of the property shall be filed.
      (3)   At the time of application, three copies of the petition to the
Plan Commission requesting primary approval of the plat shall be filed.
(`88 Code, § 8-80)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.024  STAFF REVIEW.
   (A)   Following the submission of an application for the primary approval of
a plat, the application shall be reviewed by the staff of the Commission in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-705.
   (B)   (1)   Within 30 days after receipt of an application, the staff shall
review the request for technical conformity with the requirements as set forth
in the code, and return one copy of the application with corrections to the
subdivider for corrections or updates. 
      (2)   The subdivider shall re-submit to the staff of the Commission any
corrections or updates.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of the corrected or updated application,
the staff shall set a date for a hearing before the Commission.  In accordance
with I.C. 36-7-4-706, the staff shall take the following actions:
      (1)   Notify the applicant in writing of the hearing date;
      (2)   Give notice of the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1;
      (3)   Provide that due notice is given to interested parties at least ten
days before the date set for the hearing.  The manner in which this shall be
accomplished is set forth in §§
150.35 through
150.46; and
      (4)   The staff shall submit notification of findings and approval to the
Plan Commission.
(`88 Code, § 8-81)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.025  PLAN COMMISSION; PRELIMINARY REVIEW.
   The Plan Commission shall review the request for primary approval of a
subdivision plat at a public hearing at its regularly scheduled meeting.  After
review, the Plan Commission shall render a decision at the next scheduled Plan
Commission meeting.
(`88 Code, § 8-82)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.026  PLAN COMMISSION; PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   Primary approval.  The Commission may grant primary approval to a
subdivision in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-707(a).  Granting primary approval,
the Commission shall take the following actions.
      (1)   It shall make written findings and decision granting primary
approval to the plat.
      (2)   The decision shall be signed by the official designated in this
title.
      (3)   At the public hearing, the Commission shall require that a bond be
posted by the applicant, as follows.
         (a)   If new roads are to be built as part of the subdivision, the
bond shall:
            1.   Run to the County Board of Commissioners;
            2.   Be in an amount determined by the Commission to be sufficient
to complete the improvements and installations in compliance with this title;
            3.   Be with surety satisfactory to the Commission; and
            4.   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
         (b)   If new roads are proposed, but to be built in subsequent phases
of subdivision development, the bond shall:
            1.   Run to the Plan Commission;
            2.   Be in an amount determined by the Commission to be sufficient
to guarantee initiation of subsequent interior phases of subdivision
development within five years from the recording of the initial subdivision;
            3.   Any bond posted will be forfeited after notice has been given
to the developer of failure to comply with the provision of division (A)(3)
(b)2. above, concerning interior development;
            4.   The developer, upon notification of bond forfeiture, shall
have 30 days to show cause to the Plan Commission why the bond should not be
forfeited; and
            5.   Any bond forfeited shall be applied to the county Unsafe
Building Fund.
   (B)   Primary disapproval.  If the Commission disapproves a primary plat, it
shall prepare written findings that set forth its reasons and a decision
denying primary approval, and shall provide the applicant with a copy.  The
decision shall be signed by the official designated in this title.
(`88 Code, § 8-83)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.027  PLAN COMMISSION; SECONDARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon receiving primary approval, the subdivider shall prepare and
submit a plat to the staff of the Plan Commission for secondary approval (I.C.
36-7-4-710(a)).
   (B)   Secondary approval shall be granted only after it has been determined
that all improvements and installations have been constructed and completed as
required in this title or that a bond for these improvements and installations
has been posted.
   (C)   Prior to receiving secondary approval, the secondary plat must be
signed by the Commission granting its acceptance of the dedication of any new
public rights-of-way indicated on the plat.
   (D)   The secondary plat must be signed by the officials designated by this
title prior to being recorded.
(`88 Code, § 8-84)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.028  COUNTY COMMISSIONERS; FINAL APPROVAL.
   Final approval shall be granted only after it has been determined that all
improvements and installations have been constructed and completed as required
in this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 8-85)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.029  INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   A subdivision of property for industrial or commercial uses shall follow the
same procedure as outlined in this chapter for residential subdivision.  It
shall, however, follow the standards for lot size, setbacks, and the like, as
required by
Chapter 157 of this code of ordinances.
(`88 Code, § 8-96)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.030  MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   A minor subdivision may be created from any tract or parcel subject to the
restrictions as provided in §
157.040.  Residential minor subdivisions must meet the following requirements:
   (A)   No less than one acre parcels and 200 feet of frontage.
   (B)   No block may be longer than 1,250 feet.
   (C)   Each block must be separated by a 50-foot strip.
   (D)   There will be no creation of additional streets or easements of access
to other residential parcels.
   (E)   A minor subdivision may be developed on a county road for which such
development will not have an adverse impact on additional traffic with the
placement of additional driveways.
   (F)   All plans must conform to the subdivision plans as stated in this
chapter with the exception of any road requirements.  Further, all plans must
be submitted with the modification of §
153.041(A)(7).
   (G)   The plat must be submitted to the Building Commissioner.
   (H)   The Building Commissioner after review of the plan for conformity with
this chapter will schedule a meeting with the building developer and the Plat
Committee for review of such plans.
   (I)   After the Plat Committee review, the Building Commissioner will submit
such subdivision plat to the Plan Commission. Further plans will be pursuant to
the subdivision control ordinance regarding major subdivisions.
(`88 Code, § 8-103)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-
6-05; Am. Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-20-09)
§ 153.031 TIME LINES, MISCELLANEOUS.
   All subdivisions must meet the following time lines and miscellaneous
requirements as appropriate.
   (A)   Once primary approval is obtained from the Plan Commission, such plat
must receive final approval from the Board of Commissioners within one year of
primary approval.
      (1)   Any plat before the Board of Commissioners must have a certificate
from the Building Commissioner that such plat is the same as approved by the
Plan Commission.
      (2)   Any plat that is not approved by the Board of Commissioners within
the one-year period must be re-approved by the Plan Commission to include a
public hearing.
      (3)   Once approved by the Board of Commissioners, a subdivision plat
must be recorded with the Recorder of LaPorte County within 60 days after such
approval. If such plat is not recorded within such period of time, such plat
must be reviewed by the Building Commissioner to determine if it still conforms
with the current zoning ordinance. Building permits will not be issued for any
subdivision lot that is not recorded in such timely fashion and a copy of such
recorded subdivision must be provided to the Building Commission once recorded.
   (B)   All subdivisions development including existing subdivisions which
have been recorded at the time of adoption of this section must be completed
within ten years from the recording of the initial plat. Development will
include the completion of all streets, curbs and gutters, retention ponds,
water and sewer as applicable and lot layouts. If completion is not completed
within such period of time, the developer may request extensions for completion
from the Plan Commission. Such extension shall be for a reasonable time frame.
Failure to ask for an extension shall cause the denial of the issuance of any
building permit until such extension has been approved.
   (C)   The existing subdivision plats which have already received approval
from the Board of Commissioners prior to February 1, 2004 but not yet recorded;
such subdivision plat will have 180 days from the date of the adoption of this
section to be recertified by the Building Commissioner and to be recorded. Any
plat which fails to conform to this requirement will not have building permits
issued pending re-approval by the Plan Commissioner.
   (D)   All developers will provide road bonds to the LaPorte County Board of
Commissioners as follows;
      (1)   If a roadway or street is not fully completed (no final asphalt
coating), the developer must provide a performance bond to the LaPorte County
Commissioners to insure completion of the remaining portion of the roadway.
Such performance bond shall be in the amount of 125% of the cost of
construction for the uncompleted portion of such roadway or street. Such bond
shall be for a minimum of five years and may be renewed accordingly based upon
the recommendation of the County Engineer.
      (2)   A developer who completes paving such roadway or street but has not
completed or begun building within such subdivision, a maintenance bond must be
provided to the LaPorte County Commissioners in the amount of 20% of the total
cost of such roadway or street for a minimum period of five years. Such bond is
to insure against damage to such roadway or street during the building and
construction phase within such subdivision. This bond must be in existence
until such subdivision phase is complete or the County Engineer recommends that
such roadway or street be accepted into the county highway system.
      (3)   Developers should endeavor to insure that future subdivision phases
are developed with other means of access for construction equipment in lieu of
use of accepted roads. Otherwise, additional bonds may be required during such
continued development phases to protect the county regarding damage to such
roadways subject to recommendation by the County Highway Engineer.
      (4)   All roadway bonds with a performance of maintenance will be issued
on the recommendation of the County Highway Engineer. Bonds may be extended for
an additional period of time as deemed appropriate by the Board of Commissioner
based upon the recommendation of the County Highway Engineer. Release of any
bond will further be based upon the recommendation of the County Highway
Engineer.
      (5)   All road or street signs in such subdivision must be in place prior
to the issuance of any building permits. It is the cost and responsibility of
the developer to provide for all signage. All signage must be in conformity
with the County Highway Department requirements.
      (6)   The acceptance of a subdivision plat by the County Commissioners
involves the acceptance and dedication of the streets and roadways contained
therein as laid out. Final acceptance by the County Commissioners of such
streets or roadways into the county highway systems is based upon the
recommendation of the County Highway Engineer so that such roadway meets all
the requirements of the LaPorte County Subdivision Ordinance, Chapter 153 of
this code of ordinances and that LaPorte County will be maintaining maintenance
on such streets as a county responsibility subject to any further bonding
conditions as provided herein.
   (E)   Cul-de-sac lots in a subdivision need not comply with the minimum lot
frontage requirements. Such cul-de-sac lot however must have a building set
back line at which the minimum lot width must be obtained.
   (F)   All subdivision lots must have minimum covenants to be recorded
regarding the following:
      (1)   Minimum building setback lines on front, rear and side.
      (2)   Regulation of accessory buildings regarding size and number.
      (3)   Drainage along any county right-of-way.
      (4)   Shared entrances - if applicable.
      (5)   Animal restrictions.
      (6)   Require at least a one-car attached garage.
      (7)   Minimum roof pitch requirement.
      (8)   Creation of homeowners associations for enforcement of covenants/
association guidelines.
      (9)   Enforcement of covenants provisions.
      (10)   Restrictions of outside storage.
      (11)   Unusable vehicle limitations.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-6-05)
PLATTING PROCEDURES AND PLANS
§ 153.040  PRIMARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner or subdivider shall provide a primary plat for the
subdivision which shall show the manner in which the proposed subdivision is
coordinated with the Comprehensive Master Plan and its provisions, specifically
with relation to the requirements of the official Thoroughfare Plan, school and
recreational sites, shopping centers, community facilities, sanitation, water
supply and drainage, and other developments, existing and proposed, in the
vicinity; with the following provisions.
      (1)   No land shall be subdivided for residential use unless adequate
access to the land over improved streets or thoroughfares exists or will be
provided by the subdivider.
      (2)   No land shall be subdivided for residential use if that land is
considered by the Commission to be unsuitable for this use by reason of
flooding or improper drainage, objectionable earth and rock formation,
topography, or any other feature harmful to the health and safety of possible
residents and the community as a whole.
   (B)   A separate written report and plans which include the appropriate
information must be presented to the Plan Commission.
   (C)   (1)   When considering the primary plat, the Commission will require
the subdivider to submit a drainage plan and petition to the county Drainage
Board to include the subdivision as an Urban Drain as specified in I.C. 36-9-27
et seq. 
      (2)   No subdivision which has been required to petition the Drainage
Board for inclusion as an Urban Drain shall receive a public hearing without a
letter from the County Surveyor to the Commission stating that the petition has
been filed. 
      (3)   Any subdivision which will be required to be in the Urban Drain
must have the Urban Drain Certificate on the secondary plat signed by the
County Surveyor before receiving the Commission signatures and before being
recorded.
(`88 Code, § 8-86)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.041  CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Title page.  The subdivider shall provide a title page showing the
following:
      (1)   Subdivision name;
      (2)   Location of the subdivision in reference to county roads;
      (3)   Physical features such as wooded areas, swamps, wetlands, and
marshes;
      (4)   Future access plans of the entire property which is being
subdivided;
      (5)   Existing elementary and high schools, parks, and playgrounds
serving the area proposed to be subdivided, and other community facilities;
      (6)   Title, scale, north point, and date;
      (7)   Location of any existing recorded subdivision plats within one mile
of the proposed subdivision;
      (8)   Names and lengths of proposed roads;
      (9)   Name and address of subdivider; and
      (10)   Name and stamp of registered land surveyor.
   (B)   Plan and profile.  A detailed plan and profile of all proposed roads
and drainage improvements showing the layout and gradients shall be filed along
with the primary plat, on standard plan and profile sheets, with a plan scale
of 50 feet to one inch and a profile scale of five feet to one inch, or on
computer generated sheets to match these scales.  Plan sheets shall include:
      (1)   North arrow;
      (2)   Curve data for all curves (horizontal and vertical);
      (3)   Lot lines and numbers;
      (4)   Street names;
      (5)   Easement dimensions and locations;
      (6)   Right-of-way lines;
      (7)   Monument locations;
      (8)   Scale;
      (9)   Sign type and location; and
      (10)   All water supply, storm, and sewage piping.
   (C)   Water supply and sewage disposal report.  The subdivider shall provide
a water supply and sewage disposal report showing the following information:
      (1)   Distance and location of existing public sewer and water mains if
these facilities exist within a five mile radius of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Soil Conservation Service soil information with soil boundaries,
soil identification codes, and soil names, clearly marked on the primary plat;
      (3)   Types of water supply to be used, public or private systems; and
      (4)   Types of sewage disposal systems to be used, public or private
systems.
   (D)   Watershed map.  The subdivider shall provide a watershed map showing
the following information:
      (1)   Location of the subdivision within the watershed;
      (2)   Intermediate streams, drainage courses, and reaches within the
total watershed;
      (3)   Delineation of the watershed flowing into the proposed subdivision
and the number of acres within the watershed;
      (4)   Delineation of the watershed flowing out of the proposed
subdivision and the number of acres within the watershed;
      (5)   Floodplains and floodways as shown on maps published by the Federal
Insurance Administration;
      (6)   Using §§
153.001 through
153.064, show design calculations for piping and basins in accordance with
Chapter 52 of this code; and
      (7)   (a)   If the subdivision falls within a designated flood hazard
area, the staff shall forward the proposal to the Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment. 
         (b)   The staff shall review the proposal to assure that it is
consistent with the need to minimize flood hazards; that all public utilities
and facilities are located, elevated, and constructed so as to minimize or
alleviate flood damage; and that adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce
hazards.
(`88 Code, § 8-87)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.042  ROADWAY DESIGN CALCULATIONS.
   Using latest American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials (AASHTO) methods, design calculations shall be shown for road
pavement or show minimum section used, whichever is the greater pavement
section.
(`88 Code, § 8-88)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.043  CONSTRUCTION SUMMARY REPORT.
   A report on the cost of subdivision improvements in the proposed public
right-of-way for bonding purposes shall be included.
(`88 Code, § 8-89)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.044  PRIMARY PLAT.
   The subdivider shall provide a primary plat showing the following:
   (A)   Proposed name of the subdivision and its location;
   (B)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, and the surveyor who
prepared the plan;
   (C)   Layouts of lots, showing dimensions and numbers;
   (D)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds, or other public, semi-public, or community purposes;
   (E)   Contours at vertical intervals of two feet if the general slope of the
site is less than 10%, and at vertical intervals of five feet if the general
slope is greater than 10%;
   (F)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearing, angles, and
references to section, township, and range lines or corners;
   (G)   Building setback or front yard lines;
   (H)   Legend and notes;
   (I)   Other features or conditions which would affect the subdivision
favorably or adversely;
   (J)   Scale, north point, and date.  The primary plat of the subdivision
shall be drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one inch; provided, however, that if
the resulting drawing would be over 36 inches in the shortest dimension, a
scale as recommended by the Commission may be used;
   (K)   A description of the protective covenants or private restrictions to
be incorporated in the plat of the subdivision; and
   (L)   Statement that all disturbed areas, including but not limited to road
shoulders, retention ponds, and retention dikes, shall be stabilized.
(`88 Code, § 8-90)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.045  SECONDARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to obtain secondary approval, the subdivider must present a plat
containing the following information to the Commission.
   (A)   (1)   The original drawing of the secondary plat of the subdivision
shall be drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one inch, provided that if the
resulting drawing would be over 36 inches in the shortest dimension, a scale of
100 feet to one inch may be used. 
      (2)   Three black or blue line prints shall be submitted with the
original plat, or in order to conform to modern drafting and reproduction
methods, three black line prints and a reproducible print shall be submitted. 
In addition, three black or blue line prints of the plan and profile of the
roads and drainage improvements shall be submitted with the original plan and
profile sheet(s). 
      (3)   Standard lettering shall be a minimum height of one-tenth of an
inch; special fonts shall be a minimum height of one-eighth of an inch.
   (B)   The following basic information shall be shown on the drawing:
      (1)   Boundary lines, with dimensions and angles, which provide a survey
of the tract, closing with an error of not more than one foot in 10,000 feet;
      (2)   Distances and directions to the nearest established street corners
or official monuments.  Reference corners shall be accurately described on the
plat;
      (3)   Locations of all existing and recorded streets intersecting the
boundaries of the tract;
      (4)   Metes and bounds description of the boundary;
      (5)   Source of title of the applicant to the land as shown by the last
entry in the books of the County Recorder;
      (6)   Street names;
      (7)   Complete curve notes for all curves included in the plan;
      (8)   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths of
feet, with angles to street, alley, and lot lines;
      (9)   Lot numbers and dimensions;
      (10)   Locations of easements for utilities and any limitations on the
easements;
      (11)   Dimensions for any property to be dedicated or reserved for
public, semi-public, or community use;
      (12)   Building setback or front yard lines and dimensions;
      (13)   Locations, type, materials, and size of all monuments and lot
markers;
      (14)   Plans and specifications for the improvements and lot markers;
      (15)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenants in deeds for lots;
      (16)   Name of the subdivision;
      (17)   Name and address of the owner and subdivider;
      (18)   North point, scale, and date;
      (19)   Certification by a registered land surveyor;
      (20)   Certification of dedication of streets and public property;
      (21)   Certificates for approval by the Commission;
      (22)   Certificate of approval by the Commission whenever new public
rights-of-way are established; and
      (23)   Notice that all disturbed lands have been stabilized.
(`88 Code, § 8-91)
   (C)   The secondary plat shall contain the certificates shown in
Appendix A. 
(`88 Code, § 8-93)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.046  AS-BUILT SUBDIVISION PLANS.
   (A)   A detailed as-built plan and profile of all proposed roads and
drainage improvements showing the layout and gradients on standard plan and
profile sheets shall be filed along with the secondary plat to the Commission. 
The plan scale will be 50 feet to one inch, and the profile scale will be five
feet to one inch.
   (B)   Requirements for plans shall apply as provided in this chapter, with
the addition of an as- built stamp, date, and signature in the lower right
portion of each sheet.
(`88 Code, § 8-92)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.047  SECONDARY BOND.
   (A)   The subdivider shall supply a bond for the cost of the surface asphalt
layer and 125% to cover all repairs and asphalt laying at time of final
approval, to the County Commissioners. 
   (B)   The bond shall run for a minimum of three years.
(`88 Code, § 8-94)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.048  FINAL APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to receive final approval, the subdivider must present the
following to the County Commissioners:
   (A)   A letter, approved by the county Highway Engineer, Plan Commission, or
other approved representative of the Commission, showing that 70% of the
subdivision lots have been developed; and
   (B)   A letter from the county Highway Engineer that the right-of-way is
complete and meets county standards.
(`88 Code, § 8-95)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.049  REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A site plan prepared by a state registered land surveyor is required,
showing:
      (1)   Existing ground elevations at lot corners and lot lines at 50 foot
intervals or one foot contour intervals if the general slope of the parcel is
less than 2%; existing elevation along existing watercourses within subject
parcel and within 400 feet of property lines, unless deemed unnecessary by the
Highway Engineer and County Surveyor;
      (2)   Location of existing driveway accesses within 200 feet of property
lines;
      (3)   Location and elevation of existing sanitary and storm structures
and sewers within the subject parcel;
      (4)   Finished grade elevations at property corners, property lines at 50
foot intervals, finished floor of building, ground at building corners; all
sanitary and storm structures and sewers, and at 50 feet grid on subject
parcel;
      (5)   Proposed horizontal location of building with respect to property
lines;
      (6)   Proposed location of driveway and culverts;
      (7)   Dedication of proposed Master Plan right-of-way for roads;
      (8)   Locations of all proposed improve- ments; and
      (9)   (a)   Drainage computations prepared by the Surveyor showing
increase in stormwater run-off, size of detention or retention pond and pond
outlet.
         (b)   The rate of run-off discharge after construction shall not be
greater than the pre-construction discharge.  A pond shall be provided to
handle the increase.  The pond shall be designed for a 100-year storm.
   (B)   It is suggested that the applicant request a meeting with the County
Surveyor and the Plan Commission Executive Secretary before formal application
is made, in the interest of not delaying final approval of the permit
application.
(`88 Code, § 8-97)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
VACATION OF PLATS
§ 153.060  APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The owners of land in a subdivision plat desiring to vacate all or
part of that plat shall apply for approval of a vacation of the plat or part of
the plat at the office of the county Plan Commission.  An instrument recorded
under this section terminates the effect of the plat or part of the plat
declared to be vacated and terminates all public right in public ways and
public grounds described in the plat as part of the plat.
   (B)   At the time of application, ten working days prior to the Plat
Committee meeting, three copies of the petition, including the names and
addresses of adjacent property owners and other interested parties, shall be
filed to the Plan Commission requesting the vacation of the plat or part of the
plat, accompanied by a check or money order in the amount to be determined by
the Commission.
   (C)   The petition for vacation of the plat or part of the plat may be
rejected by the Plat Committee if it can be shown that one or more of the
following apply:
      (1)   The vacation of the plat or part of the plat abridges or destroys
public rights in any of the public uses, improvements, utility easements,
streets, or alleys, unless provisions are stated within the petition regarding
the aforementioned public uses; or
      (2)   The vacation of the plat or part of the plat would adversely affect
the general policy and pattern of the development as set out in the Master
Plan.
(`88 Code, § 8-98)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.061  PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The petitioner shall be required to notify all owners of a plat by
certified mail or personal notice.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
vacation of the plat or part of the plat after ensuring due notice has been
given to all interested parties and publication of the public hearing.
   (C)   Such notice shall be ten days prior to the public hearing.
   (D)   The Plan Commission may vacate all or part of the plat under the
following findings:
      (1)   Conditions in the plat have changed to defeat the original purpose
of the plat.
      (2)   It is in the public interest to vacate all or part of the plat.
      (3)   The value of the remaining portion of the land in the plat not
owned by the petitioner will not be diminished by the vacation.
   (E)   The petitioner of such plat vacation, if approved, must have such
order regarding the amendment of the plat based on the decision of the Plan
Commission recorded with the recorder.
   (F)   The order may further provide for limitations on any covenants
regarding such vacated portion of the plat to include the deletion of all such
covenants on the vacated portion or what amended covenants would apply to such
vacated portions.
   (G)   The remonstrators of such vacation proceedings must show one of the
following:
      (1)   The  vacation  would hinder the  growth or orderly development of
the neighborhood in which it is located or to which it is contiguous.
      (2)   The vacation would make access to the lands of the agreed person by
means of a public way difficult and inconvenient.
      (3)   The vacation would hinder the public’s access to a church, school
or other public building or place.
      (4)   The vacation would hinder use of a public way by the neighborhood
for which it is located or which it is contiguous.
(`88 Code, § 8-99)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-
20-09)
§ 153.062  FINAL DECISION.
   The Plan Commission shall forward its recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners, which shall make the final decision.
(`88 Code, § 8-100)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.063  PLAT VACATION; RECORD.
   A copy of the vacated plat or part of the plat shall be filed in the office
of the Plan Commission and County Planner, after recording so that accurate
subdivision maps are maintained.
(`88 Code, § 8-101)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.064  SUBDIVISION PLAT CHANGES.
   (A)   For any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat,
if the change affects any street layout shown on the maps, or areas reserved
thereon for public use, or any lot lines, or if it affects any map or plan
legally reached prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions, the parcels shall be approved by the Commission by the same
procedure, rules, and regulations as for a subdivision.
   (B)   However, if the proposed changes in the plat or part of the plat are
in conflict with the covenants and deed restrictions recorded with the plat or
part of the plat, and/or the proposed changes in the plat or part of the plat
affect the square footage of the lots, square footage of the dwelling, or type
of dwelling (such as single-family, two-family), then a petition signed by all
the property owners in the subdivision or adjacent to the subdivision must be
filed with the application for primary plat approval at the office of the Plan
Commission.
(`88 Code, § 8-102)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
PRINCIPLES OF DESIGN FOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS
§ 153.075  STREETS.
   (A)   Where a subdivision abuts an existing county road, additional right-
of-way along the county road will be deeded to the county to establish rights-
of-way as follows:
      (1)   Arterial road:  100 feet right-of-way;
      (2)   Primary road:  80 feet right-of-way; and
      (3)   All other roads:  60 feet right-of-way.
   (B)   Definitions and locations of streets shall conform to the county
Thoroughfare Plan, as shown in
Appendix D.
   (C)   If the subdivision is judged to create additional traffic and change
the existing road classification, the new classification will govern the amount
of right-of-way required.
   (D)   The street and alley layout shall provide access to all lots and
parcels of land within the subdivision, and where streets cross other streets,
jogs shall not be created.
   (E)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as to
produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
   (F)   Certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be extended to the
boundary line of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide for normal
circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
   (G)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley to the prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
   (H)   Widths of primary, secondary, and feeder streets shall conform to the
width specified in the Thoroughfare Plan (see
Appendix D).
   (I)   The minimum right-of-way of residential streets, marginal access
streets, or culs-de-sac shall be 50 feet.  All culs-de-sac shall terminate in a
circular right-of-way with a minimum diameter of 100 feet, or other arrangement
for the turning of all vehicles conveniently within the right-of-way.
   (J)   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential districts but should be
included in commercial and industrial areas where needed for loading and
unloading or access purposes, and where platted shall be at least 20 feet in
width.
   (K)   The center lines of streets should intersect as nearly at right angles
as possible; in no instance shall an acute angle of less than 70 degrees be
accepted.
   (L)   At intersections of streets and alleys, property line corners shall be
rounded by arcs of at least 20 feet radii or by chords of arcs thus curved.
   (M)   At intersections of streets, the property line corners shall be
rounded by arcs with radii of not less than 25 feet or by chords of arcs thus
curved.
   (N)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than 90
degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of property lines shall be
increased as deemed advisable by the Commission.
   (O)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
      (1)   Minor street center lines shall be separated by 150 feet.
      (2)   Major street center lines shall be separated by 500 feet.
   (P)   Where parkways or special types of streets are involved, the
Commission may apply special standards to be followed in their design.
   (Q)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way, or a street or a highway designated as a limited access
street or highway by the appropriate authorities, provision shall be made for a
service road at a distance acceptable for the appropriate use of the land
between the highway or railroad and such streets.
   (R)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on all
streets must be maintained along the center lines as follows:
      (1)   Primary and secondary streets:  600 feet;
      (2)   Feeder streets and parkways:  300 feet; and
      (3)   Residential streets:  300 feet.
   (S)   Curvature measured along the center line shall have a minimum radius
as follows:
      (1)   Primary and secondary streets:  800 feet;
      (2)   Feeder parkways:  300 feet; and
      (3)   Residential streets:  200 feet.
   (T)   Between reversed curves on primary and secondary streets there shall
be a tangent of not less than 100 feet, and on feeder and residential streets
the tangent shall be not less than 50 feet.
   (U)   Maximum grades for streets shall be as follows:
      (1)   Primary and secondary streets:  no greater than 6%; and
      (2)   Feeder and residential streets and alleys:  not greater than 8%.
   (V)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than three-
tenths percent.
(`88 Code, § 8-110)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.076  BLOCKS.
   (A)   Blocks should not exceed 1,250 feet in length.
   (B)   Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth, except where an interior street parallels a limited access
highway or primary street or a railroad right-of-way.
(`88 Code, § 8-110)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.077  LOTS.
   (A)   All lots shall abut on an interior street or place.  Any variance
allowing lots to face on existing county or municipal roads shall:
      (1)   Follow bonding requirements, as mentioned in §
153.026; and
      (2)   Require a minimum lot size of 32,670 square feet, with a minimum
frontage of 170 feet and six inches along the existing road.
   (B)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to straight
streets and on radial lines on curved streets.  Some variation from this rule
is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be avoided.
   (C)   Double frontage lots should not be platted, except that, where desired
along federal arterial and state arterial highways and primary streets, lots
will face on an interior street and back on the thoroughfares.  In that event,
a planting strip for a screen, at least 20 feet in width, shall be provided
along the back of each lot.
   (D)   Widths and areas of lots shall be not less than those provided in
Chapter 157 of this code for single-family dwellings for the district in which
the subdivision is located, except that when a water main supply system or a
sanitary sewer system is not available, the lot area necessary to install a
private water supply or private sewage disposal system on the lot in accordance
with the state Board of Health and county health regulations shall become the
required minimum lot area.
   (E)   The depth-to-width ratio of the usable area of a lot shall be a
maximum of three to one.
   (F)   Wherever possible, unit shopping centers, based upon sound development
standards, should be designed, in contrast to the platting of lots for
individual commercial use.
   (G)   Corner residential lots shall be wider than normal in order to permit
appropriate setbacks from both streets.
(`88 Code, § 8-110)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.078  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Where alleys are not provided, easements for utilities shall be
provided.  These easements shall have minimum widths of 12 feet, and where
located along lot lines, one-half the width shall be taken from each lot. 
Before determining the location of easements, the plan shall be discussed with
the local public utility companies to assure their proper placing for the
installation of services.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel, or stream, there shall be provided an adequate stormwater easement or
drainage right-of-way conforming with the natural line of the watercourse.
(`88 Code, § 8-110)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.079  BUILDING LINES.
   Building lines shall be as provided in
Chapter 157 of this code of ordinances.
(`88 Code, § 8-110)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.080  PUBLIC OPEN SPACES.
   Where sites for parks, schools, playgrounds, or other public uses are
located within the subdivision area as shown on the Comprehensive Plan, the
Commission may request their dedication for these purposes, or their
reservation for a period of one year following the date of the secondary
approval of the plat.  In the event a governmental agency concerned passes a
resolution expressing its intent to acquire the land or reserve, the
reservation period shall be extended for an additional six months.
(`88 Code, § 8-110)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
STANDARDS OF IMPROVEMENT FOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS
§ 153.090  APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   State statute will apply except where local ordinance, as written, exceeds
state statute.
(`88 Code, § 8-111)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.091  MONUMENTS OR MARKERS.
   (A)   Monuments or markers shall be placed so that the center of the pipe or
marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be
marked, and shall be set so that the top of the monument or marker is level
with the finished grade.
   (B)   Monuments or markers shall be set:
      (1)   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary of
the subdivision;
      (2)   At the intersection of street property lines;
      (3)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
      (4)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear;
      (5)   At all angles in property lines of lots; and
      (6)   At all other lot corners not established by a monument.
   (C)   (1)   Monuments shall be of stone, pre-cast concrete, or concrete
poured in place, with minimum dimensions of four inches by four inches by 30
inches.  They shall be marked on top with an iron or copper dowel set flush
with the top of the monument or deeply scored on top with a cross. 
      (2)   Markers shall consist of iron pipes or steel bars at least 30
inches long, and not less than one-half inch in diameter.
(`88 Code, § 8-111)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.092  STREETS.
   (A)   Streets (and alleys where provided) shall be completed to grades shown
on plans, profiles, and cross-sections, provided by the subdivider, and
prepared by a registered professional engineer or registered land surveyor and
approved by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced, and improved to the dimensions
required by the plans, profiles, and cross-sections, and the work shall be
performed in the manner prescribed in Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction and Maintenance (current issue) of the state Department of
Transportation (INDOT).  References in the following sections refer to the
INDOT Standard Specifications.
   (C)   The street surface shall be a flexible pavement of a width as shown in
the Minimum Standards for Highways in All Subdivisions (see
Appendix E), and shall be constructed equal to those standards given below:
      (1)   Minimum design characteristics of street and alley pavements, as
shown in
Appendix B to this chapter, division (A).
      (2)   Aggregate base specifications, as shown in
Appendix C to this chapter.
   (D)   Prior to placing the street and alley surfaces, adequate subsurface
drainage for the street shall be provided by the subdivider.  Subsurface
drainage pipe, when required, shall be coated corrugated metal pipe or a
similar type, not less than 12 inches in diameter, approved by the Commission. 
Upon the completion of the street and alley improvements, plans and profiles as
built shall be filed with the Commission.
   (E)   (1)   Inspection of the construction of all roads shall be made by at
least two of the following people:  the county Highway Superintendent, County
Planner, County Engineer, County Surveyor, county Building Commissioner, or
county Utility Inspector.
      (2)   Inspection shall be made of:
         (a)   Subbase preparation;
         (b)   Base aggregate placement;
         (c)   Each asphalt course;
         (d)   Curb placement; and
         (e)   Sewer pipe placement.
      (3)   The contractor shall notify the County Engineer 24 hours prior to
each phase of work.
   (F)   Acceptance of the roads and improvements by the Commission requires a
letter of recommendation signed by the County Highway Engineer and Building
Commissioner and subsequent notification of the Council by the Commission that
all roads and improvements have been completed in accordance with the
requirements of this title.
(`88 Code, § 8-111)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.093  SEWERS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete sanitary
sewer system which shall connect with an existing approved sanitary sewer
outlet, except that when an approved outlet is not available, one of the
following methods of sewage disposal shall be used:
      (1)   A complete sanitary sewer system to convey the sewage to a
treatment plant, to be provided by the subdivider in accordance with the
minimum requirements of the state Board of Health and/or the state Stream
Pollution Control Commission and state Department of Environmental Management;
or
      (2)   A private sewage disposal system on individual lots, consisting of
a septic tank and tile absorption field or other approved sewage disposal
system, when laid out in accordance with the minimum standards of the state
Board of Health regarding septic tank sewage disposal systems; provided,
however, that a private sewage disposal system on individual lots consisting of
a septic tank and tile absorption field shall not be permitted if the water
table is less than 30 inches below the ground.
   (B)   The plans for the installation of a sanitary sewer system shall be
provided by the subdivider and approved by the state Board of Health.  Upon
completion of the sanitary sewer installation, the plans for these systems as
built shall be filed with the Commission.
   (C)   In this section regarding sewers, and the next, regarding water, the
phrase “the subdivider shall provide,” shall be interpreted to mean that the
subdivider shall install the facility referred to, or whenever a private sewage
disposal system or an individual water supply is to be provided, that the
facilities referred to in these sections shall be installed by the developer of
the lots in accordance with regulations.
(`88 Code, § 8-111)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.094  WATER.
   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water main
supply system which shall be connected to an existing approved municipal or
community water supply, except that when a municipal or community water supply
is not available, the subdivider shall provide one of the following:
   (A)   A complete community water supply system to be provided in accordance
with the minimum requirements of the state Board of Health.
      (1)   The plans for the installation of a water main supply system shall
be provided by the subdivider and approved by the state Board of Health.
      (2)   Upon completion of the water supply installation, the plans for the
system as built shall be filed with the Commission.
   (B)   An individual water supply on each lot in the subdivision in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the state Board of Health.
(`88 Code, § 8-111)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.095  STORM DRAINAGE.
   Refer to
Chapter 52.
(`88 Code, § 8-111)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.096  CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   All subdividers shall provide curbs and gutters along all roads within
a subdivision.  This does not apply to county roads previously in existence
prior to the development of a subdivision.
   (B)   The curbs and gutters shall be of the construction type shown the
Minimum Standards for Highways in All Subdivisions (see
Appendix E), and shall be constructed according to the following
specifications.
      (1)   The base for the curb and gutter shall be well-compacted on the
existing base or grade.
      (2)   The minimum specification shall be shown for the type of cross-
section in the Minimum Standards for Highways in All Subdivisions (see
Appendix E).
      (3)   All concrete used in the curb and gutter shall meet the state
highway specification for Class A concrete.
      (4)   Integral or monolithic curb of the same dimensions as shown in
division (A) of
Appendix B to this chapter may be built on concrete pavements, provided the
pavement widths are maintained as required in the code.
(`88 Code, § 8-111)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.097  SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Whenever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with sidewalks, or whenever the proposed
subdivision will average more than three and one-half lots per gross acre
included in the subdivision, the Commission shall require sidewalks to be
installed on each side of the street.
   (B)   When sidewalks are required, they shall be constructed of Portland
Cement concrete and be at least four feet wide, four inches thick, and use
Class A concrete.
(`88 Code, § 8-111)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.098  SIGNS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with standard county
street signs at the intersection of all streets.
   (B)   Street names shall contain no more than 13 total characters.
   (C)   The subdivider shall provide all applicable signs throughout the
subdivision for traffic control and safety.  These signs shall conform to the
latest Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) and shall include but
not be limited to “speed limit,” “stop,” and “yield” signs.
(`88 Code, § 8-111)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
PRINCIPLES OF DESIGN FOR INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
§ 153.110  STREETS.
   (A)   Where a subdivision abuts an existing county road, additional right-
of-way along the county road will be deeded to the county to establish rights-
of-way as follows:
      (1)   Arterial road:  100 feet right-of-way;
      (2)   Primary road:  80 feet; and
      (3)   All other roads:  60 feet right-of-way.
   (B)   Definitions and locations of streets shall conform to the county
Thoroughfare Plan, as shown in
Appendix D.
   (C)   If the subdivision is judged to create additional traffic and change
the existing road classification, the new classification will govern the amount
of right-of-way required.
   (D)   The street layout shall provide access to all lots and parcels of land
within the subdivision, and where streets cross other streets, jogs shall not
be created.
   (E)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as to
produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
   (F)   Each developed subdivision shall have at least two points of ingress
and egress to provide for normal traffic circulation in the vicinity of the
subdivision.
   (G)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley to the prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
   (H)   Street width shall be 30 feet of pavement, and a cul-de-sac shall have
a pavement radius of 75 feet.
   (I)   (1)   The minimum right-of-way of streets, marginal access streets, or
culs-de-sac shall be 60 feet. 
      (2)   All culs-de-sac shall terminate in a circular right-of-way with a
minimum diameter of 150 feet, or other arrangement for the turning of all
vehicles conveniently within the right-of-way.
   (J)   The center lines of streets should intersect at right angles.
   (K)   At the intersection of streets, the property line corners shall be
rounded by arcs with radii of not less than 45 feet or by chords of arcs thus
curved.
   (L)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than 90
degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of property lines shall be
increased as deemed advisable by the Commission.
   (M)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
      (1)   Minor street center lines shall be separated by 150 feet.
      (2)   Major street center lines shall be separated by 500 feet.
   (N)   Where parkways or special types of streets are involved, the
Commission may apply special standards to be followed in their design.
   (O)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way, a street, or a highway designated as a limited access
street or highway by the appropriate authorities, provision shall be made for a
service road at a distance acceptable for the appropriate use of the land
between the highway or railroad and the service road.
   (P)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on all
streets must be maintained along the center lines as follows:
      (1)   Primary and secondary streets:  600 feet; and
      (2)   Feeder streets and parkways:  300 feet.
   (Q)   Curvature measured along the center line shall have a minimum radius
as follows:
      (1)   Primary and secondary streets:  800 feet; and
      (2)   Feeder parkways:  300 feet.
   (R)   Between reversed curves there shall be a tangent of not less than 125
feet.
   (S)   Maximum grades for streets shall be no greater than 6%.
   (T)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than three-
tenths percent.
(`88 Code, § 8-116)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.111  BLOCKS.
   (A)   Blocks should not exceed 1,250 feet in length.
   (B)   Blocks shall be of sufficient width to permit two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth, except where an interior street parallels a limited access
highway or primary street or a railroad right-of-way.
(`88 Code, § 8-116)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.112  LOTS.
   (A)   All lots shall abut on an interior street or place.  Any variance
allowing lots to face on existing county or municipal roads shall:
      (1)   Follow bonding requirements, as mentioned in §
153.026; and
      (2)   Require a minimum lot size of 32,670 square feet with a minimum
frontage of 170 feet and six inches along the existing road.
   (B)   Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to straight
streets and on radial lines on curved streets.  Some variation from this rule
is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots should be avoided.
   (C)   Where double frontage lots are platted along limited access roadways,
railroads, and the like, planting strips shall be required in the backs of the
parcels, set out in a privacy screen easement.  Privacy screen easements shall
be a minimum of 20 feet wide, and screening shall be a minimum of 12 feet in
height.
   (D)   Widths and areas of lots shall be not less than those provided in
Chapter 157 of this code for the district in which the subdivision is located,
except that when a water main supply system or a sanitary sewer system is not
available, the lot area necessary to install a private water supply or private
sewage disposal system on the lot in accordance with the state Board of Health
and county health regulations shall become the required minimum lot area.
   (E)   Corner lots shall be wider than normal in order to permit appropriate
setbacks from both streets.
(`88 Code, § 8-116)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.113  EASEMENTS.
   Easements for utilities shall be provided.  The easements shall have minimum
widths of 12 feet, and where located along lot lines, one-half the width shall
be taken from each lot.  Before determining the location of easements, the plan
shall be discussed with the local public utility companies to assure their
proper placing for the installation of services.  Where a subdivision is
traversed by a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream, there shall be
provided an adequate stormwater easement or drainage right-of- way conforming
with the natural line of the watercourse.
(`88 Code, § 8-116)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.114  BUILDING LINES.
   Building lines shall be as provided in
Chapter 157 of this code of ordinances.
(`88 Code, § 8-116)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
STANDARDS OF IMPROVEMENT FOR INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
§ 153.125  APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   State statute will apply except where local ordinance, as written, exceeds
state statute.
(`88 Code, § 8-117)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.126  MONUMENTS OR MARKERS.
   (A)   Monuments or markers shall be placed so that the center of the pipe or
marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be
marked, and shall be set so that the top of the monument or marker is level
with the finished grade.
   (B)   Monuments or markers shall be set:
      (1)   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary of
the subdivision;
      (2)   At the intersection of street property lines;
      (3)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
      (4)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear;
      (5)   At all angles in property lines of lots; and
      (6)   At all other lot corners not established by a monument.
   (C)   (1)   Monuments shall be of stone, pre-cast concrete, or concrete
poured in place with minimum dimensions of four inches by four inches by 30
inches.  They shall be marked on top with an iron or copper dowel set flush
with the top of the monument or deeply scored on top with a cross. 
      (2)   Markers shall consist of iron pipes or steel bars at least 30
inches long, and not less than one-half inch in diameter.
(`88 Code, § 8-117)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.127  STREETS.
   (A)   Streets shall be completed to grades shown on plans, profiles, and
cross-sections, provided by the subdivider and prepared by a registered
professional engineer or registered land surveyor and approved by the
Commission.
   (B)   The streets shall be graded, surfaced, and improved to the dimensions
required by the plans, profiles, and cross-sections, and the work shall be
performed in the manner prescribed in Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction and Maintenance (current issue) of the state Department of
Transportation (INDOT).  References in the following sections of this
subchapter refer to the INDOT Standard Specifications.
   (C)   The street surface shall be a flexible pavement of a width as shown in
the Minimum Standards for Highways in All Subdivisions (see
Appendix E), and shall be constructed equal to those standards given below:
      (1)   Minimum design characteristics of street and alley pavements, as
given in division (B) of
Appendix B to this chapter; and
      (2)   Aggregate base specifications, as given in
Appendix C to this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Prior to placing the street surfaces, adequate subsurface
drainage for the street shall be provided by the subdivider.  Subsurface
drainage pipe, when required, shall be coated corrugated metal pipe or a
similar type, not less than 12 inches in diameter, approved by the Commission. 
      (2)   Upon the completion of the street improvements, plans and profiles
as built shall be filed with the Commission.
   (E)   (1)   Inspection of the construction of all roads shall be made by at
least two of the following people:  the county Highway Superintendent, the
County Planner, the County Engineer, the County Surveyor, the county Building
Commissioner, or the county Utility Inspector.
      (2)   Inspection shall be made of:
         (a)   Subbase preparation;
         (b)   Base aggregate placement;
         (c)   Each asphalt course;
         (d)   Curb placement; and
         (e)   Sewer pipe placement.
      (3)   The contractor shall notify the County Engineer 24 hours prior to
each phase of work.
   (F)   Acceptance of the roads and improvements by the Plan Commission
requires a letter of recommendation signed by the county Highway Engineer and
Building Commissioner and subsequent notification of the Council by the
Commission that all roads and improvements have been completed in accordance
with the requirements of this title.
(`88 Code, § 8-117)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.128  SEWERS.
   (A)    The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete sanitary
sewer system which shall connect with an existing approved sanitary sewer
outlet.
   (B)   In this section, regarding sewers, and the next section, regarding
water, the phrase “the subdivider shall provide” shall be interpreted to mean
that the subdivider shall install the facility referred to and that the
facilities referred to in these sections shall be installed by the developer of
the lots in accordance with regulations.
(`88 Code, § 8-117)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.129  WATER.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water
main supply system which shall be connected to an existing approved municipal
or community water supply, if available.
   (B)   When a municipal or community water supply is not available, the
subdivider shall provide one of the following:
      (1)   A complete community water supply system, to be provided in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the state Board of Health.
         (a)   The plans for the installation of a water main supply system
shall be provided by the subdivider and approved by the state Board of Health.
         (b)   Upon completion of the water supply installation, the plans for
the system as built shall be filed with the Commission.
      (2)   An individual water supply on each lot in the subdivision in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the state Board of Health.
(`88 Code, § 8-117)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.130  STORM DRAINAGE.
   Refer to
Chapter 52.
(`88 Code, § 8-117)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.131  CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   All subdividers shall provide curbs along all roads within a
subdivision.  This does not apply to county roads previously in existence prior
to the development of a subdivision.
   (B)   The curb shall be of the construction type shown in the Minimum
Standards for Highways in All Subdivisions (see
Appendix E), and shall be constructed according to the following
specifications.
      (1)   The base for the curb shall be well compacted on the existing base
or grade.
      (2)   The minimum specification shall be shown for the type of cross-
section in the Minimum Standards for Highways in All Subdivisions (see
Appendix E).
      (3)   All concrete used in the curb shall meet the state highway
specifications for Class A concrete.
      (4)   Integral or monolithic curb of the same dimensions as shown in
division (B) of
Appendix B to this chapter may be built on concrete pavements, provided the
pavement widths are maintained as required in the code.
(`88 Code, § 8-117)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 153.132  SIGNS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with standard county
street signs at the intersection of all streets.
   (B)   Street names shall contain no more than 13 total characters.
   (C)   The subdivider shall provide all applicable signs throughout the
subdivision for traffic control and safety.  These signs shall conform to the
latest MUTCD Manual and shall include but not be limited to “speed limit,”
“stop,” and “yield” signs.
(`88 Code, § 8-117)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
APPENDIX A:  SECONDARY PLAT CERTIFICATES
   (A)   Commission Certificate.
Under authority provided by I.C. 36-7-4 enacted by the General Assembly of the
State of Indiana, and all acts amendatory thereto, and an ordinance adopted by
the County Council of LaPorte County, Indiana, this plat was given approval by
the County of LaPorte.
Approved by the LaPorte County Plan Commission on:
                  ______________________________________
                  Date
                  LaPorte County Plan Commission
   (B)   Surveyor’s Certificate.
I, ________________________________________, hereby certify that I am a
registered land surveyor, licensed in compliance with the laws of the State of
Indiana, that this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me on
__________________________, that all the monuments shown thereon will be
installed in accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Chapter, and
that their location, size, type, and material are accurately shown.
                           SEAL
                           and
                     Signature ___________________________________
   (C)   Deed of Dedication.  Each secondary plat submitted to the Commission
for approval shall carry a deed of dedication in substantially the following
form:
We, the undersigned _____________________________________________, owners of
the real estate shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we have laid
off, platted, and subdivided, and do thereby lay off, plat, and subdivide said
real estate in accordance with the within plat.
This subdivision shall be known and designated as
_________________________________, an addition to
______________________________.  All streets and alleys shown and not
heretofore dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the public.
Front and side yards building lines are hereby established as shown on this
plat, between which line and the property line of the street, there shall be
erected or maintained no building or structure.
There are strips of ground ______________ feet in width as shown on this plat
and marked “easement,” reserved for the use of public utilities for the
installation of water and sewer mains, surface drainage, poles, ducts, lines,
and wires, subject at all times to the proper authorities and to the easement
herein reserved.  No permanent or other structures are to be erected or
maintained upon said strips of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision
shall take their titles subject to the rights of the public utilities.
(Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions,
would be inserted here upon the subdivider’s initiative or upon the
recommendation of the Commission.  Important provisions are those specifying
the use to be made of the property and, in the case of residential use, the
minimum habitable floor area.)
The foregoing covenants (or restrictions) are to run with the land and shall be
binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until January 1,
_______ , (a twenty-five (25) year period is suggested), at which time said
covenants (or restrictions), shall be automatically extended for successive
periods of ten (10) years unless changed by vote of majority of the then owners
of the building sites covered by these covenants or restrictions, in whole or
in part.  Invalidation of any one of the foregoing covenants or restrictions,
by judgment or court order, shall in no way affect any of the other covenants
or restrictions, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Witness our hands and seals this _________day of ________________, __________.
State of Indiana)
      )SS:
LaPorte County)
Before me the undersigned notary public, in and for the city and state,
personally appeared and each separately and severally acknowledged the
execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary act and deed, for
the purpose therein expressed.
Witness my hand and notarial seal this __________ day of _____________,
_________.
   (D)   County Commissioner’s Certificate.  This certificate is required
whenever a new public right-of-way is established.
Under authority provided by I.C. 36-9-27 et seq., this plat was given approval
by the County Commission of LaPorte County, Indiana, at a meeting held on the
__________ day of _______________, __________.
   (E)   Urban Drain Certificate. 
The LaPorte County, Indiana Drainage Board has approved this subdivision’s
drainage system as an “Urban Drain” as specified in I.C. 36-9-27 et seq.
This _________ day of ________________ , __________.
   ___________________________________
   LaPorte County Surveyor
(`88 Code, § 8-93)    (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
APPENDIX B:  MINIMUM DESIGN FOR STREET PAVEMENT
   (A)   Table I:  Minimum Design Characteristics of Street and Alley Pavements
Pavement Pavement Class Primary and Secondary Local Subdivision
Pavement   Pavement Class      Primary and Local        Subdivision
                               Secondary
Flexible** Surface, No. 11     1 inch      1 inch       1 inch
Flexible** Binder, No. 8 or 9  2 inches    2 inches     2 inches
Flexible** Bass, No. 5         3 inches    3 inches     3 inches
Subbase    Compacted Aggregate 10 inches   6 through 10 6 through 10 inches*
                                           inches*
Notes:
* Based on the California Bearing Ratio (CBR) of the underlying soil.  For
soils with a CBR of three through six, ten inches is required; with a CBR of
seven through ten, eight inches is required; with a CBR over ten, six inches
is required.  If the CBR is below three, then the soils are unacceptable for
road construction.
** Flexible Pavement shall be Asphalt Concrete Type “B,” MV as set out in
the state Department of Transportation Specifications, latest edition.
 
(`88 Code, § 8-111, Table 7)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
   (B)   Table II:  Minimum Design Characteristics of Street Pavements***
Pavement Pavement Class Commercial, Industrial Streets
Pavement   Pavement Class   Commercial, Industrial Streets
Flexible** Surface, No. 11  1 inch
Flexible** Binder, No. 8 or 2 inches
           9
Flexible** Bass, No. 5      3 inches
Subbase    Compacted        12 inches*
           Aggregate
Notes:
* Based on the California Bearing Ratio (CBR) of the underlying soil.  If the
CBR is below three, then the soils are unacceptable for road construction.
** Flexible Pavement shall be Asphalt Concrete Type “B,” MV as set out in the
state Department of Transportation Specifications, latest edition.
*** Developer shall submit an AASHTO pavement design showing the calculated
pavement section required.  If analysis shows that less than the minimum
section is required, the minimum section shall be installed.
 
(`88 Code, § 8-111, Table 9)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
APPENDIX C:  AGGREGATE BASE SPECIFICATIONS
   The gradation for gravel materials used in compacted aggregate base shall
conform to #53 of the state Highway Standard Specifications or the following:
Classification of Aggregates
Requirements Material Class A Class B Class C Class D Class E Class F
Classification of Aggregates
Requirements                              Material   Class Class Class Class Class Class
                                                     A     B     C     D     E     F
Quality:  Los Angeles abrasion1, percent           40.0  40.0  45.0  45.0  50.0
max.
Quality: sodium sulfate soundness2,                 12.0  12.0  16.0  16.0  20.0  25.0
percent max.
                                          Aggregate
Quality: absorption3, percent max.        for        5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0
                                          bituminous
                                          mixtures
                                          Aggregate
Quality: absorption3, percent max.        for cement 5.0   5.0
                                          concrete
Additional: deleterious, percent, max.    Friable    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
                                          particles
Additional: deleterious, percent, max.    Ocher      1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
Additional: deleterious, percent, max.    Shells     0.7   0.7   1.0   1.0
Additional: deleterious, percent, max.    Non-       4.0   4.0   4.0   6.0
                                          durable4
Additional: deleterious, percent, max.    Sum of the 5.0   5.0   6.0   8.0   10.0
                                          above
Additional: deleterious, percent, max.    Coke7
Additional:  deleterious, percent, max.  Iron7
Chert (less than 2.45 bulk spec.                    3.0   5.0   8.0   10.0
gravity)5 percent, max.
Weight per cubic foot; pounds, min.       For slag   75.0  75.0  70.0  70.0  70.0
Crushed aggregate6; percent, min.         Mechanical 20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
Crushed aggregate6; percent, min.         Total      85.0  85.0  50.0  35.0
Notes:
1.     Los Angeles abrasion requirements shall not apply to blast furnace slag.
2.     Aggregates failing to meet the sodium sulfate soundness requirements may, at the
option of the engineer, be subjected to 50 cycles of freezing and thawing and may be
accepted, provided they do not have a loss greater than specified for sodium sulfate
soundness.
3.     (a)     Absorption requirements shall not apply to blast furnace slag.
3.     (b)     When crushed stone coarse aggregate consists of ledges whose absorptions
differ by more than two percentage points, the finished product will be determined on
the basis of production samples from the stockpile obtained at the frequency set out in
Indiana Test Method No. 203.
4.     Non-durable particles as determined by AASHTO T-189 and other particles which are
structurally weak, such as soft sandstone shale, limonite concretions, coal weathered
schist, or cemented gravel.  Determination of non-durable particles shall be made from
the total weight of material retained on the three-eighths inch sieve.  Scratch hardness
test shall not apply to crushed stone course aggregate.
5.     The bulk specific gravity on chert shall be based on the saturated surface dry
condition.  The amount of chert (less than 2.45 bulk specific gravity) shall be
determined on the total weight of material retained on the three-eighths inch sieve for
sizes one through eight inclusive, 53, 58B, 73, and 73B, and on the total weight of
material retained on the No. 4 sieve for sizes nine and eleven.
6.     The crushed aggregate requirements, unless otherwise specified, will apply only
to gravel coarse aggregate used in bituminous mixtures or compacted aggregate base,
shoulders, or surface.  The crushed aggregate requirements will not apply to size twelve
aggregate.  Blending of crushed stone with gravel in order to comply with the
mechanically crushed requirements will be permitted when approved.  Determination of
crushed particles shall be made on material retained on the No. 4 sieve.
7.   Air-cooled blast-furnace slag coarse aggregate shall be free of objectionable
amounts of coke and/or iron.
8.     Coarse aggregate may be accepted or rejected based on previous service records.
 
(`88 Code, § 8-111, Table 8)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
APPENDIX D: THOROUGHFARE PLAN
[Click_here_to_view_image.]
(Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
APPENDIX E: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR HIGHWAYS IN ALL SUBDIVISIONS
[Click_here_to_view_image.]
CHAPTER 154:  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Permitted uses
Regulations and Standards for Approval
   
154.15   Application
   
154.16   Ownership
   
154.17   Approval and amendment procedure
   
154.18   Standards for approval
   
154.19   Site coverage requirements
   
154.20   Approval procedure
   
154.21   Preliminary application; required material
   
154.22   Preliminary plan review; public hearing
   
154.23   Approved preliminary plans
   
154.24   Final plan approval
   
154.25   Appeals
   
154.26   Construction; time for completion
   
154.27   Deviations from approved site plan
PUD Site Plan and Scaled Drawing Requirements
   
154.40   Intent
   
154.41   Requirement
   
154.42   Site plan; content
   
154.43   Site plan; size
   
154.44   Special reports required
Cross-reference:
   Administration and enforcement, see §§
150.15  through
150.21
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of a Planned Unit Development (PUD) is to permit flexibility in
the regulation of land development; encourage innovation in land use and
variety in design, layout, and type of structures constructed; achieve economy
and efficiency in the use of land, natural resources, energy, and the provision
of public services and utilities; encourage provision of useful open space;
provide adequate housing, employment, and shopping opportunities particularly
suited to the needs of the residents of the county; and encourage the use,
reuse, and improvement of existing sites and buildings when the uniform
regulations contained in the other zoning districts do not provide adequate
protections and safeguards for the site and the surrounding area.
(`88 Code, § 8-145)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.02  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   All residential and commercial uses, all service uses, and all
professional offices, or any combination of these uses, may be permitted in a
PUD. 
   (B)   Manufacturing, industrial, and research uses are not permitted in a
PUD.
(`88 Code, § 8-146)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL
§ 154.15  APPLICATION.
   The following provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all PUD
applications.
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.16  OWNERSHIP.
   The entire parcel for which application is made must be under one ownership,
or the application must be made with the written authorization of all property
owners.
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.17  APPROVAL AND AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   PUD approval procedure shall follow the same approval procedure as that of a
major subdivision.  The preliminary review shall consist of the conceptual PUD
site development plan to determine suitability.  The final phase before the
Plan Commission will include a detailed PUD plan. Lastly, the final approval
will be with the Board of Commissioners and recordation prior to the issuance
of building permits.
(`88 Code, §8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-6-
05)
§ 154.18  STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   Based upon the following standards, the Plan Commission may deny or approve
the proposed PUD.
   (A)   (1)   The uses proposed will have a beneficial effect, and will not
adversely affect public health, safety, welfare, convenience, or the
environment, or any combination thereof, or present and potential surrounding
land uses. 
      (2)   This beneficial effect for the county (not the developer) shall be
one which could not be achieved under any other single zoning classification.
   (B)   The uses proposed shall be consistent with the county Comprehensive
Plan.
   (C)   The Plan Commission may, if deemed appropriate, require for a PUD more
or less open space than otherwise required by this chapter.
   (D)   Off-street parking shall be sufficient to meet the minimum required by
§
157.060 and Appendix F to
Chapter 157.
   (E)   Landscaping shall be provided so as to insure that proposed uses will
be adequately buffered from one another and from surrounding public and private
property.
   (F)   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation, allowing safe, convenient,
uncongested, and well- defined movement, shall be provided.
   (G)   Major natural, environmental, historical, and architectural features
of the area shall be preserved.
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.19  SITE COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No more than 65% of the PUD site shall be occupied by buildings or
impervious surfaces such as roadways, sidewalks, and parking areas. 
   (B)   The remaining 35% of the site shall be reserved for uses such as open
space, natural areas, outdoor recreation areas including but not limited to
golf courses, tennis courts, and swimming pools, or unimproved areas.
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.20  APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The PUD approval shall involve two phases, as described in §§
154.21 and
154.24.
   (B)   (1)   The preliminary phase shall consist of a review of the
conceptual PUD site development plan to determine its suitability. 
      (2)   The final phase shall require detailed PUD plans for any part of
the conceptual PUD plan prior to approval by the Plan Commission and the
issuance of building permits.
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.21  PRELIMINARY APPLICATION; REQUIRED MATERIAL.
   The applicant for any PUD plan shall submit the following information to the
zoning official.
   (A)   A PUD site plan that meets the requirements of
Chapter 153 shall be submitted.
   (B)   (1)   The PUD site plan shall indicate the entire contiguous holdings
of the petitioner or owner who wishes to develop the entire parcel or any part
thereof, and shall include the area and use of the land adjacent to the parcel
to be developed, which plan shall exhibit any unusual problems of topography,
utility service, land usage, or land ownership. 
      (2)   The plan shall also exhibit all existing and proposed structures,
existing and proposed streets, open spaces, and other features as required by
ordinance or the land development regulations.
   (C)   The applicant shall also submit:  a statement of the development’s
objectives and purposes to be served; economic feasibility; conformity to the
plans and policies of the county; market needs; impact on public schools,
utilities, and circulation facilities; impact on natural resources; impact on
the general area and adjacent property; estimated cost; and a staging plan
showing the general time schedule of and expected completion dates of the
various elements of the plan.
   (D)   Any additional graphics or written materials requested by the Plan
Commission to assist the Commission in visualizing and understanding the
proposal shall also be submitted (such as work study model).
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.22  PRELIMINARY PLAN REVIEW; PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing with notice as provided in
Chapter 153 on the proposed PUD plan.
   (B)   Prior to the hearing, the petitioner shall submit to the zoning
official sufficient copies of the PUD plan together with appropriate fees. 
Copies of the plan shall be distributed promptly by the zoning official to the
appropriate county agencies for review to determine if the PUD plan can be
accommodated by the existing public utility, street, and general county service
facilities, or if any additions to or extension of facilities are necessary for
the project.
   (C)   The zoning official shall notify the petitioner of any questions
raised by any county agencies and shall also submit the same information to the
Plan Commission, along with a report which evaluates the proposed PUD project
and its impact on the present and future development of that part of the county
in which it is located.
   (D)   The Commission shall approve or disapprove the proposed PUD plan and
issue a written decision on the reasons for the decision within 30 days of the
conclusion of the public hearing.  The petitioner shall be supplied a copy of
the written decision.
   (E)   The Plan Commission may impose conditions or require modifications in
the proposed PUD plan, prior to approval, and the petitioner shall modify the
plan accordingly.
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.23  APPROVED PRELIMINARY PLANS.
   (A)   Approval of the proposed PUD plan by the Commission shall confer upon
the owner the right to proceed through the subsequent planning phase in
accordance with the regulations or ordinances in effect at the time of the
Commission’s approval for a period not to exceed three years from the date of
approval, unless subsequent regulations or ordinances are specifically made
applicable to developments which have been so approved. 
   (B)   If final phase PUD plans have not been submitted for approval before
the end of the three- year period, then the PUD plan shall conform to the
regulations, ordinances, and laws in effect at the time the site plan is
submitted.
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.24  FINAL PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   The petitioner shall submit to the zoning official sufficient copies
of the final PUD site plan for all or any part of the development, in
accordance with the uses and concepts as shown on the approved PUD site plan. 
The final PUD plan for each stage shall include all the information required by
this chapter and shall also comply with any additional requirements of the Plan
Commission when it granted preliminary approval.
   (B)   Copies of the final PUD site plan as submitted shall be distributed
promptly by the Zoning official to the appropriate county agencies for review
and comment regarding the legal requirements of the county.
   (C)   The Commission shall approve or disapprove the proposed final PUD plan
and issue a written decision on the reasons for the decision within 30 days of
the conclusion of the public hearing.  The petitioner shall be supplied a copy
of the written decision.
   (D)   Approval of the final PUD site plan shall entitle the owner to apply
for building permit(s).
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.25  APPEALS.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or department board or bureau of the county
aggrieved by a decision of the Plan Commission regarding a Planned Unit
Development, other than a recommendation as to rezoning an area to a PUD
district, may appeal that decision to the LaPorte Circuit Court or any of the
LaPorte Superior Courts in the manner provided by statute.
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.26  CONSTRUCTION; TIME FOR COMPLETION.
   The proposed PUD and construction of all proposed buildings, parking spaces,
landscaping, usable open spaces, and amenities must be started within three
years of the date of final approval of the PUD plan and completed within five
years.  This five- year period may be extended by the Commission following
public notice and public hearings in the same manner as provided for in §
154.22 of this code.  Failure on the part of the owner to secure the written
extension shall result in stoppage of all construction.
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.27  DEVIATIONS FROM APPROVED SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Minor changes to a previously approved PUD site plan may be approved
without the necessity of the Plan Commission taking any action thereon if the
zoning official certifies in writing that the proposed revision constitutes a
minor alteration and does not alter the basic design nor any specific
conditions of the plan as agreed upon by the Plan Commission.  The zoning
official shall record all these changes on the original PUD site plan and shall
advise the Commission of all minor revisions at the next meeting of the Plan
Commission.  Minor alterations or revisions under this section, which do not
conflict with state or county laws, shall be limited to:
      (1)   Addition or relocation of all fire escapes;
      (2)   Alteration of building heights and elevations, providing the
alterations do not exceed 10% of the previously approved dimensions, and
providing this shifting does not significantly alter the conceptual integrity
of the plan;
      (3)   Construction of additional or alteration of approved sidewalks,
provided that pedestrian movement through and around the site is not inhibited
thereby;
      (4)   Shifting of, additions to, or changes in species of landscape
materials, provided that the change does not reduce the minimum landscape
requirements;
      (5)   Relocation of refuse collection stations;
      (6)   Internal rearrangement of parking lots and curb cut locations,
provided the functional rearrangement does not reduce the total number of
parking spaces required, and further provided that the minimum landscape
requirements are maintained, and further provided that the rearrangement does
not inhibit good traffic flow;
      (7)   Any decrease in building size or changes in bedroom counts per
dwelling unit in no more than 10% of the total number of units;
      (8)   Construction and location of bus stop stations; and
      (9)   Installation of recreational or maintenance facilities that do not
require the erection of a structure intended for human use or occupancy.
   (B)   (1)   A PUD final plan approval shall not be approved until after
Commission approval of the preliminary PUD plan.  Once final PUD plan approval
is granted, a PUD becomes permitted. 
      (2)   Any deviation from the approved PUD plan, except as authorized in
division (A) above, shall be considered a violation of this chapter in
accordance with §§
150.15 through
150.21 and subject to the penalties stated therein.
(`88 Code, § 8-147)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
PUD SITE PLAN AND SCALED DRAWING REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.40  INTENT.
   Site plan or scaled drawing submission and review are required to facilitate
determination of whether the PUD proposal meets all applicable requirements and
is in harmony with the purpose, intent, and spirit of this chapter.  It will
also enable county officials to encourage and assist a PUD developer to design
and implement land use proposals which foster orderly, efficient, compatible,
and aesthetic uses of land in the county.
(`88 Code, § 8-148)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.41  REQUIREMENT.
   A site plan shall be prepared and submitted in accordance with
Chapter 153 with any application for a PUD.
(`88 Code, § 8-148)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.42  SITE PLAN; CONTENT.
   The information required in either the preliminary or final site plans shall
conform to the requirements set forth in
Chapter 153, and as outlined in the following sections of this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 8-148)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.43  SITE PLAN; SIZE.
   The site plan of the project shall be drawn to a scale of not less than 100
feet to one inch; provided, however, that if the resulting drawing would be
over 36 inches in the shortest dimension, a scale recommended by the Zoning
Administrator may be used.
(`88 Code, § 8-148)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 154.44  SPECIAL REPORTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Reports required.  The petitioner shall be required to furnish the
Plan Commission the following special reports regarding the proposed project. 
Whenever possible the information may be incorporated on the plan drawing.  If
more detailed information is necessary, the petitioner shall submit a separate
written report or drawings.
   (B)   Waiving reports.  The petitioner may request that any or all of these
reports be waived by the Plan Commission, but the petitioner must demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the Plan Commission that any or all reports required in
this section are not relevant to the proposed project.
   (C)   Special reports; described.
      (1)   Plan and profile.  A detailed tentative plan and profile of all
proposed roads and drainage improvements showing the layout and gradients
(exaggerated scale) shall be provided.
      (2)   Water supply and sewage disposal report.  The petitioner shall
provide a water supply and sewage disposal report showing the following
information:
         (a)   Distance and location of existing public sewer and water mains
if these facilities exist within two miles of the proposed PUD;
         (b)   The type of water supply to be used, either public or private. 
If the public system is to be used, an estimate of the daily loading on the
system is to be included with the proposed layout;
         (c)   The type of sewage disposal system to be used, either public or
private.  If the public system is to be used an estimate of the daily loading
on the system is to be included with the proposed layout; and
         (d)   Soil Conservation Service soil information with soil boundaries,
soil identification codes, and soil name clearly marked on the plan.
      (3)   Drainage report.  The petitioner shall provide information on the
methods to be used to control drainage from the proposed project.  This report
shall contain a proposed layout of the drainage system including, but not
limited to, swales, storm sewers, and retention basins.
      (4)   Infrastructure report.  In addition to the above information, the
petitioner shall provide details of the impact, if any, of the proposed project
on the public infrastructure, including:
         (a)   Impact of the project on the public school system;
         (b)   Requirements for police and fire protection; and
         (c)   Proposed access routes and potential highway improvements.
      (5)   Environmental report.  The petitioner shall provide details of the
impact, if any, of the proposed development on the environment of both the
development site and the surrounding area.  This information shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Hydrologic impact of the proposed project on both surface and
ground water supplies;
         (b)   Biological impacts on the flora and fauna; and
         (c)   Physical environmental impacts such as noise, dust, site
disturbance, and vibrations.
      (6)   Features.  The petitioner shall provide information on the major
natural, historical, environmental, and architectural features of the area.
      (7)   Proposed structures.  The petitioner shall provide information as
to the type, size, materials, and design of the structures to be erected in the
PUD.
(`88 Code, § 8-148)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
CHAPTER 155:  FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
Preliminary Provisions
   
155.01   Statutory authorization
   
155.02   Findings of fact
   
155.03   Statement of purpose
   
155.04   Objectives
   
155.05   Definitions
General Provisions
   
155.15   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
155.16   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
155.17   Establishment of floodplain development permits
   
155.18   Compliance
   
155.19   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.20   Discrepancy between mapped flooplain and actual ground elevations
   
155.21   Interpretation
   
155.22   Warning; disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
155.30   Designation of Administrator
   
155.31   Permit procedures
   
155.32   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
Flood Hazard Reduction Provisions
   
155.40   General standards
   
155.41   Specific standards
   
155.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
155.43   Critical facility
   
155.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
155.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
155.46   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
155.47   Standards for flood-prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
155.55   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
155.56   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
155.57   Variance procedures
   
155.58   Conditions for variances
   
155.59   Variance notification
   
155.60   Historic structure
   
155.61   Special conditions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
§ 155.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Board of Commissioners of LaPorte County do hereby adopt the following
floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of LaPorte County are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters.
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage.
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the County of LaPorte by fulfilling the requirements of the
National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health.
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects.
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions.
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains.
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.05  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall,  snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes.  Zone A99 may only be used when the flood protection system
has reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Accessory structures should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which Is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the floodplain administrators
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under Its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
      (5)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (7)   Storage of materials; or
      (8)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of existing
structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing roads; or
gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not involve
filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE is a certified statement that verifies a structures
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and  either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. Floodplain management regulations are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOOD- PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris Impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the  channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP (as related to variances of this chapter). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The LaPorte
County Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional,
unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial
hardship alone is NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations,
physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of ones neighbors
likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these
problems can be resolved through other means without granting a variance, even
if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any  combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will Include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision
(LOMR), and letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of properly specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMAs determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and,
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929 as corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) as adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See REGULATORY FLOOD)
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is (1) built on a single chassis; (2)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
(3) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
and (4) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters
for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
155.16. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term base floods, 1% annual
chance floods and 100-year flood.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of
LaPorte County subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of
LaPorte County are generally identified as such on the LaPorte County, Indiana,
and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated November 6, 2013 as well
as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown
on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing  violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded  by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.15  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.16  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of LaPorte County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas shall be as delineated on the 1% annual chance flood
profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of LaPorte County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas dated November 6, 2013 and the corresponding Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated November 6, 2013 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of LaPorte County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas, delineated as an "A Zone" on the LaPorte County, Indiana
and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated November 6, 2013 as well
as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date, shall be according to
the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data,
the party needs to replace existing data with better data that meets current
engineering standards. To be considered, this data must be submitted to the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.17  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.18  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.19  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.20  DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.21  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.22  WARNING;  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of LaPorte County, Indiana, the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.30  DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The County Board of Commissioners hereby appoints the County Building
Commissioner to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is
herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.31  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a letter of map revision. (See §
155.32(B)(6) for additional information.)
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicants risk.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a flood proofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer and
certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the floodproofing
certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected
by such review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit
the floodproofing certification or failure to make correction required shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an elevation
certification (FEMA Elevation Certificate Form 81-31 or any future updates)
which depicts the as-built lowest floor elevation is required to be submitted
to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a floodproofing
measure, floodproofing certification (FEMA Floodproofing Certificate Form 81-65
or any future updates) is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.32  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
155.44 and
155.46(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and as-built elevation and floodprooflng data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
155.31.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
155.31.
      (13)   Perform a minimum of three inspections to ensure that all
applicable chapter and floodplain development requirements have been satisfied.
The first upon the establishment of the flood protection grade reference mark
at the development site; the second upon the establishment of the structure’s
footprint/establishment of the lowest floor; and the final inspection upon
completion and submission of the required finished construction elevation
certificate. Authorized county officials shall have the right to enter and
inspect properties located in the SFHA.
      (14)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (15)   Revocatlon of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 155.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial Improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Parking lots, driveways, and sidewalks within the SFHA shall be
constructed with permeable materials.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory flood water.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
155.40, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D) of
this section.
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) of this section. Structures located in all A Zones may be
floodproofed in lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator as set forth in §
155.32(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG. Elevated
structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to preclude finished
living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs must
meet the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above the
exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (4)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (5)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
      (6)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an elevation
at or higher than the exterior grade.
      (7)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction in
the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
      (8)   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings/
venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood
vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will
violate the requirements of division (D) of this section. Periodic inspections
will be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
affidavit shall be recorded in the office of the LaPorte County Recorder.
      (9)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with the
structure’s deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below the
lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet)
shall not be improved, finished or otherwise converted; the community will have
the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall be
recorded in the office of the LaPorte County Recorder.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damagelas a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) of this section.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) of this section.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D) of this section.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.42  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.43  CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.44  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
155.16, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
155.40 through
155.47 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
0.15 of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under
the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as
proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR § 65.12.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.45  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
155.40 through
155.47 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.46  STANDARDS FOR SFHAs WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
155.40 through
155.47 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
155.40 through
155.47 have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and shall not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)  Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.47  STANDARDS FOR FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
155.40 through
155.47.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)  Penalty, see §
155.99
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 155.55  DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The County Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.56  DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the LaPorte County
Circuit or Superior Court.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.57  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable.
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area.
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site.
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.58  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
155.44 or
155.46(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
155.44 or
155.46(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
155.41 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (see §
155.59).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (see §
155.59).
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.59  VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and;
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.60  HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structures continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.61  SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
155.55 through
155.61, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code for the County of LaPorte. All violations
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,500.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The County Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
09, passed 11-2-16)
CHAPTER 156:  WETLANDS AND EROSION
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Wetlands; permitted uses
   
156.03   Erosion control covenants; construction
   
156.04   Covenant application
Construction Activity Erosion and Sediment Control
   
156.10   Purpose
   
156.11   Definitions
   
156.12   Applicability of general permit rules
   
156.13   Notice of intent letter
   
156.14   Construction plan requirements
   
156.15   Stormwater quality control requirements
   
156.16   Site development permit and fee
   
156.17   Inspection
   
156.18   Project termination
   
156.19   Administration
   
156.20   Enforcement
   
156.21   Penalty procedures
   
156.22   Appeal of decisions
Cross-reference:
   Administration and enforcement, see §§
150.15 through
150.21
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect public freshwater lakes and
delineated wetlands in the public interest by avoidance or minimization of
damage as may be caused by building or the detrimental effects of building and
contingent land uses in or within 25 feet of a delineated wetland or shoreline
of a public freshwater lake.
(`88 Code, § 8-127)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 156.02  WETLANDS; PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The following uses are allowed in a wetland district:
      (1)   Agricultural uses, so long as they are conducted within the
parameters set forth in the wetland provisions of the Food Security Act of 1985
(31 USC 483(a)), as amended (on file in the county Plan Commission office), and
the Food and Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act (FACT) (7 USC 1421) of
1990;
      (2)   Buildings or developments, artificially constructed ponds, drainage
ditches, stormwater detention basins, gravel quarries, or waste treatment
lagoons existing as a non-conforming use at the time of adoption of the
chapter; and
      (3)   State and federally permitted uses approved prior to the enactment
of this chapter.  For more information on state and federal guidelines, contact
the county Plan Commission office.
   (B)   The Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals may require additional
information and/or a plan for mitigation through development of other wetland
sites, and any other information deemed necessary to verify compliance with the
provisions of all federal, state, and local guidelines.
(`88 Code, § 8-128)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 156.03  EROSION CONTROL COVENANTS; CONSTRUCTION.
   Each lot owner who constructs or has constructed on any lot in a subdivision
shall provide, or shall make certain that the contractor or any other person
building the home provides, erosion control on the lot during the construction
period and thereafter, so that sand, soil, or any other material or debris from
the lot does not wash or flow, and is not carried or moved in any manner into
or onto the following:
   (A)   Other lots in the subdivision;
   (B)   Any other properties in the area;
   (C)   Any public streets or roadways; or
   (D)   Any wetland areas, including lakes, ponds, rivers, creeks, or ditches,
not specifically designed as a retention area for that subdivision.
(`88 Code, § 8-129)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 156.04  COVENANT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The duty imposed on each lot owner by this covenant shall begin when
the soil or the trees, bushes, or other vegetation on the lot are first
disturbed to begin the construction process, and shall continue indefinitely
thereafter. 
   (B)   This covenant does not require that a lot owner or contractor, or
anyone else providing erosion control, use any particular method or device; but
may use any method or devices, or any combination of methods or devices, that
provide the erosion control required by this covenant.
(`88 Code, § 8-129)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
§ 156.10  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to meet the requirements of IDEM Rule 327
IAC 15-13 (Rule 13).
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
§ 156.11  DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions that apply throughout this subchapter are as contained in
Section 4 of 327 IAC 15-5 and are as follows:
   COUNTY.  The County of LaPorte, Indiana.
   MS4 ADVISORY COMMITTEE. Those appointed representatives of the municipal and
county entities who administer the MS4 Program under the permit issued by DEM.
   MS4 COORDINATOR.  A designated representative of the county responsible for
assisting in the implementation and management of the Stormwater Quality
Management Program for the county.
   RULE 5 and RULE 13. Respectively, 327 IAC 15-5 and 327 IAC 15-13. The
Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) has the authority to
administer the Erosion Control Program under RULE 5. When IDEM approves the
transfer of the Erosion Control Program to MS4 entities, such authority will be
by RULE 13 in the MS4 areas only. RULE 5 will continue to apply to non-MS4
areas of the state. The issuance of an authorization letter by IDEM will
determine which rule will have precedence or apply.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
§ 156.12  APPLICABILITY OF GENERAL PERMIT RULES.
   The applicability of the General Permit Rules is as defined in 327 IAC 15-5-
2 and 15-53.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
§ 156.13  NOTICE OF INTENT LETTER.
   The Notice of Intent Letter (NOI) submittal requirements and construction
plan submittal requirements shall be as described in §§ 5 and 6 of 327 IAC 15-
5-5. The NOI shall be submitted to the MS4 Coordinator, the Indiana Department
of Environmental Management, and any other entity as required by 327 IAC 15-5-
5.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
§ 156.14  CONSTRUCTION PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   The Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (ESCP) requirements shall be as
described in § 6.5 of 327 IAC 15-5.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
§ 156.15  STORMWATER QUALITY CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   Stormwater quality control measures included in the plan must achieve the
minimum project site requirements specified in §§ 7 and 7.5 of 327 IAC 15-5.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
§ 156.16  SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND FEE.
   (A)   No construction project site owner (permittee) shall be granted a Site
Development Permit for a project site where the proposed land disturbance is
one  acre or more without the approval of the ESCP by the MS4 Coordinator.
   (B)   The ESCP shall be submitted by the construction project site owner in
triplicate to the MS4 Coordinator.
   (C)   The MS4 Coordinator shall provide a copy of the ESCP to the La Porte
County Soil and Water Conservation District (SWCD) for their comments and
recommendations. All comments received from the local SWCD shall be made
available to the applicant during the review and approval process.
   (D)   Each ESCP submittal shall include the name, address and phone number
of the owner or developer of the site and any consulting firm retained by the
applicant together with the name of the applicant's principal contact at such
firm. It shall also include a statement by the owner or developer of the site
that any land clearing, construction, or development involving the movement of
earth by any party on the project site shall be in accordance with the approved
ESCP.
   (E)   All ESCPs shall be accompanied by a $100 per acre of disturbance
filing fee.
   (F)   The Site Development Permit is granted by the MS4 Coordinator for a
period of five years. Other provisions for duration of coverage shall be as
described in § 12 of 327 IAC 15-5.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07; Am. Ord. 2013-12, passed 10-16-13; Am. Ord.
2013-14, passed 10-16-13)
§ 156.17  INSPECTION.
   (A)    The MS4 Coordinator shall make inspections as required and either
shall approve that portion of the work completed or shall notify the permittee
that the work fails to comply with the approved ESCP.
   (B)   To initiate inspections, the permittee shall notify the MS4
Coordinator in writing, at least two working days before each of the following:
      (1)   Start of construction;
      (2)   Completion of site clearing;
      (3)   Close of construction season;
      (4)   Commencement of work when the site has been dormant for at least 15
calendar days; and
      (5)   Completion of final landscaping.
   (C)   The permittee shall make regular inspections of all control measures
in accordance with 327 IAC 15-5-7. The purpose of such inspections will be to
determine the overall effectiveness of the control plan and the need for
additional correctional measures.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
§ 156.18  PROJECT TERMINATION.
   The procedures for termination of construction activities shall be as
described in § 8 of 327 IAC 15-5.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
§ 156.19  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally.  The County Building Commissioner, through the MS4
Operators and County MS4Coordinator, is hereby authorized to implement and
monitor all aspects of this chapter.
   (B)   Project-specific administration. The MS4 Coordinator shall be
responsible for implementation and monitoring compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
§ 156.20  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The county shall have the authority to enforce this chapter. All
persons engaging in construction activities on a project site must comply with
the approved ESCP for the project site and with the requirements, provisions
and regulations of this chapter. Any person causing or contributing to a
violation of any requirement, provision, or regulation of this chapter may be
subject to enforcement and penalty under the terms of this chapter.
   If the violation is of such a nature to materially adversely affect the
public health, existing water uses and aquatic biota of the county, the county
may suspend or revoke the Site Development Permit and place an immediate Stop
Work order at the site.
   (B)   Each action causing a violation will constitute a separate and single
violation. Each day that a violation exists constitutes a separate violation,
and is subject to penalty or prosecution as a separate violation.
   (C)   Any person performing land disturbing activities prior to submitting
an ESCP for approval by the City and properly notifying IDEM shall be subject
to enforcement and penalty as described in § 10 of 327 IAC 15-5.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
§ 156.21  PENALTY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The county will employ the following procedures with regard to
assigning penalties to enforce the requirements, provisions and regulations of
this chapter:
      (1)   First violation. The initial determination of a violation or group
of violations at a project site. Upon ascertaining and documenting the
occurrence of a first violation at a project site, the county will make a
corrective recommendation to the owner/developer responsible for correcting the
violation, together with a notice that the correction must be accomplished
within ten working days after the issuance of the notice to prevent the
citation of a second violation with regard to the same condition or conditions
that caused the first violation.
      (2)   Second violation. The determination that after ten working days
past the notification of a first violation, the condition or conditions
constituting the first violation remain uncorrected or otherwise not compliant
with the requirements, provisions or regulations of this chapter. Upon
ascertaining and documenting the occurrence of a second violation at a project
site, the county will again issue a noncompliance citation to the owner/
developer along with a notice that the correction must be accomplished with
five calendar days from the date of the citation to prevent the citation of a
third violation regarding the same condition.
         (a)   The civil penalty for the citation of a second violation will be
no less than $100 and no more than $250.
         (b)   If the penalty is not paid within 30 days, the citation may be
enforced in court by any remedy allowed by law and an action may be maintained
to recover the costs of corrective measures employed by the county and the
reasonable costs of legal services, if the owner/developer does not make a good
faith effort to correct the violation, in addition to the fine or penalty
referred to above.
      (3)   Third violation. The determination that after five working days
past the notification of a second violation, the condition or conditions
constituting the second violation remain uncorrected or otherwise noncompliant
with the requirements, provisions, or regulations of this chapter. Upon
ascertaining and documenting the occurrence of a third violation at a project
site, the county will issue another noncompliance citation to the owner/
developer together with a notice that the project site is subject to an
immediate Stop Work order.
         (a)   The civil penalty for a third violation will be no less than
$500 and no more than $750.
         (b)   If the penalty is not paid within 30 days, the citation may be
enforced in court by any remedy allowed by law and an action may be maintained
to recover the costs of corrective measures employed by the county and the
reasonable costs of legal services, if the owner/developer does not make a good
faith effort to correct the violation, in addition to the fine or penalty
referred to above.
   (B)   Stop Work orders will not be rescinded until all recommended
corrective measures have been completed and the county has been paid for all
costs incurred, as applicable.
   (C)   The county reserves the right to accelerate the schedule assigned in
this section for correcting a violation if required to protect life or property
from an imminent and severe threat of loss or damage.
   (D)   The county may perform, or cause to be performed, such work as is
necessary to accomplish corrective measures at a project site by its own forces
or by a contractor hired to perform the work.
   (E)   Any project site owner, individual lot operator, contractor,
subcontractor, property owner, or other person or persons responsible for
construction activities at a project site who violate the terms, requirements,
provisions, or regulations of this chapter  are liable for the costs of removal
of sediment and other stormwater pollutants deposited in any right-of-way,
drain, storm sewer, drainage easement, or county-maintained or controlled
property to a condition equal to or better than the condition prior to a
violation. Such costs may be pursued in court and/or filed as a lien against
the property as allowed by state law.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
§ 156.22  APPEAL OF DECISIONS.
   The interpretation or implementation of the Rule 5 or Rule 13 program
requirements by the MS4 Coordinator may be appealed to the MS4 Advisory
Committee, in writing and within five days of the interpretation or
implementation decision. The appeal will be decided by the MS4 Advisory
Committee within ten days. The appeal process does not stay a Stop Work order
issued under §§
156.20 and
156.21.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 4-17-07)
CHAPTER 157:  ZONING
Section
Zoning Maps
   
157.001   Establishment
   
157.002   Maintenance
   
157.003   Location
   
157.004   Replacement
District Regulations
   
157.015   Division of districts
   
157.016   A, agricultural district
   
157.017   R-1, residential district
   
157.018   R-2, residential district
   
157.019   R-3, residential district
   
157.020   AB, accommodation business district
   
157.021   LB, local business district
   
157.022   GB, general business district
   
157.023   I, industrial district
   
157.024   IR, industrial reserve
   
157.025   SC, shopping center
   
157.026   Permitted uses
   
157.027   Primary and accessory uses
Use Requirements and Restrictions
   
157.040   Use requirements; residential
   
157.041   Subdivisions; residential use restrictions
   
157.042   Restrictions; residential use
   
157.043   Restrictions; business use
   
157.044   Restrictions; industrial use
General Regulations
   
157.055   Building setback
   
157.056   Buffering; minimum distances from residential district
   
157.057   Buffering; special uses
   
157.058   Entrances
   
157.059   Fences
   
157.060   Parking requirements
   
157.061   Restricted zone along streams and flood hazard areas
   
157.062   Ponds; fencing requirements
   
157.063   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers; restrictions
Signs and Billboards
   
157.075   Permitted signs
   
157.076   Signs; location restrictions
   
157.077   Off-premise commercial signs; restrictions
   
157.078   On-premise commercial signs; restrictions
   
157.079   Commercial signs; maintenance and removal
   
157.080   Existing commercial signs; non-conformity
Paging Towers/Wireless Communications Placement
   
157.090   Definitions
   
157.091   Requirements
   
157.092   Siting hierarchy of wireless communication facilities
   
157.093   Development standards
   
157.094   Application requirements
   
157.095   Construction and non-conforming permits
   
157.096   Removal of abandoned wireless communications facilities
   
157.097   Cell tower permit fees
Building and Improvement Location Permits
   
157.115   Applicability
   
157.116   Site plan
   
157.117   Special requirements
   
157.118   Records
Variances and Special Exceptions
   
157.130   Definitions
   
157.131   Grounds for variances from development standards
   
157.132   Grounds for variances of use
   
157.133   Special exceptions
   
157.134   Restrictions on transferability
   
157.135   Expiration
   
157.136   Sanitary landfill and solid waste disposal variance
   
157.137   Commitments
   
157.138   Wind energy conversion systems
   
157.139   Grandfather provision
   
Appendix A:     Official Schedule of Uses
   
Appendix B:    Residential Lot Area Requirements for Subdivisions
   
Appendix C:     Residential Use Restrictions
   
Appendix D:     Business Use Restrictions
   
Appendix E
:     Industrial Use Restrictions
   
Appendix F:     Parking Space and Area
   
Appendix G:     Off-Street Loading and Unloading
Cross-reference:
   Administration and enforcement, see §§
150.15 through
150.21
ZONING MAPS
§ 157.001  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The county is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as shown on the
official zoning maps, which, together with all of the explanatory matter
thereon, are hereby declared to be a part of this code.
(`88 Code, § 8-197)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.002  MAINTENANCE.
   If, in accordance with the provisions of the county Master Plan, changes are
made in the district boundaries or other information portrayed on the official
zoning maps, these changes shall be entered on the maps promptly after the
change has been approved by the Board of Commissioners acting upon a
recommendation of the Commission.  No changes of any nature shall be made on
the official zoning maps or other matter shown thereon except in conformity
with the procedures as described in this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 8-197)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.003  LOCATION.
   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning maps
which from time to time may be published, the original copies of the official
zoning maps shall be located in the office of the Building Commissioner of the
county.
(`88 Code, § 8-197)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.004  REPLACEMENT.
   In the event that the official zoning maps become damaged, destroyed, lost,
or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the Board of Commissioners, acting upon the recommendation of the
Commission, may by resolution adopt a new set of official zoning maps which
shall supercede the prior set of maps.
(`88 Code, § 8-197)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 157.015  DIVISION OF DISTRICTS.
   The areas of the county are divided into the following kinds of districts.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.016  A, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   Agricultural districts designated “A” are established to include substantial
areas where little or no urbanization has occurred or is likely to occur in the
near future.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.017  R-1, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   Residential districts designated “R-1” are established to include areas for
low density single- family residences intermingled with agricultural uses.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.018  R-2, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   Residential districts designated “R-2” are established to include areas for
medium density residential uses.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.019  R-3, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   Residential districts designated “R-3” are established to include areas for
higher density single- family, two-family, and multiple-family residences.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.020  AB, ACCOMMODATION BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   Accommodation business districts designated “AB” are established to include
areas that are close to expressways, interchanges, and recreational lakes and
are appropriate to the limited shopping and service needs of those locations.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.021  LB, LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   Local business districts designated “LB” are areas for businesses and
service establishments that provide for the everyday shopping needs of a
residential neighborhood without creating excessive congestion, noise, or other
objectionable influences.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.022  GB, GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   General business districts designated “GB” are areas established to include
retail and service businesses that serve the county area and are usually
located on or near major arterials and/or intersections.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.023  I, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   Industrial districts designated “I” are areas established for existing or
future industrial activities because of location, accessibility, and other
conditions.  In addition, these areas are neither offensive nor injurious to
the surrounding areas by reason of emission or creation of noise, vibrations,
smoke, dust, or other particulate matter, toxic or noxious materials, odors,
fire, or explosive hazard, or glare or heat.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.024  IR, INDUSTRIAL RESERVE.
   Any area zoned industrial reserve, “IR”, may be used for additional
industrial development based on overall surrounding development trends for
further industrial development and expansion.  This area is reserved for the
possibility and potential of additional industrial use.  It is not to be
considered as actually industrial (“I”).  In the event of industrial expansion,
all regulations that apply to an industrial zone will apply to the “IR” zone,
subject to any limitations as specified by the schedule of uses for “IR” zoned
areas.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.025  SC, SHOPPING CENTER.
   Any area zoned shopping center “SC” on the official zoning map shall be
regarded as being zoned industrial (“I”), and all the regulations which apply
to a general business zone shall be applied to any zone marked “SC.”
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.026  PERMITTED USES.
   The table in
Appendix A to this chapter, entitled Official Schedule of Uses, details the
uses permitted in each district.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.027  PRIMARY AND ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Primary uses.  Primary uses are authorized in the districts
established as shown in
Appendix A.
      (1)   Permitted uses are indicated by “U.” 
      (2)   Those uses marked “SE” require a special exception. 
      (3)   “PR” indicates that the particular use is prohibited in the
corresponding district.
   (B)   Accessory uses. 
      (1)   An accessory use is any building or structure that would become in
use and/or associated with the primary use as specified by that district.
      (2)   The following accessory uses are authorized in all districts:
         (a)   Curbs;
         (b)   Driveways; however, a special exception will be required for
more than one driveway;
         (c)   Fences and hedges;
         (d)   Lampposts;
         (e)   Mailboxes;
         (f)   Nameplates;
         (g)   Parking spaces;
         (h)   Public utility installations;
         (i)   Retaining walls; and
         (j)   Walks.
   (C)   Other accessory uses.  These include:
      (1)   Roadside stands, provided that the stand shall be not more than one
story and shall have a floor area of not more than 200 square feet, and shall
be located no nearer than 50 feet from a street or highway right-of-way line;
and
      (2)   Uses, buildings, and structures that are accessory to all permitted
uses, such as public or private sewage treatment plants and water supply
systems, and pole or power lines together with associated apparatus and
equipment.
   (D)   Special accessory uses. 
      (1)   The following are lists of activities that will be considered
special accessory uses for the primary use located on any parcel.
         (a)   Philanthropic and charitable institutions;
         (b)   Agricultural and horticultural fairs; and
         (c)   Public or semi-public organizations, such as Boy Scouts, Girl
Scouts, or other similar organizations.
      (2)   The special accessory uses anticipate activities such as bazaars
and fairs that may be conducted as a fund-raising activity for the primary
use.  These activities considered as being outside the primary use of the
structure will be limited to no more than four times per calendar year and of
not more than three consecutive days duration.
(`88 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
USE REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 157.040  USE REQUIREMENTS; RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Residential use requirements.  The following use requirements pertain
to all residential uses.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.  A lot on which a dwelling is erected or changed
may not be smaller  than that prescribed for it by the table in
Appendix B to this chapter.
      (2)   The minimum lot size as described in
Appendix B pertains to land which has been subdivided in accordance with the
standards of the LaPorte County Subdivision Control Ordinance,
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances.  No dwelling or structure shall be
erected on a parcel of land less than one acre, unless said parcel has been
subdivided or a variance granted for a smaller parcel.
      (3)   Lots of record as of 1964 may be smaller in area than the figure
described above in this section; provided, however, that such lot may not be
smaller than 10,000 buildable square feet.
      (4)   The minimum frontage requirements for lots and parcels not
otherwise subdivided shall not be less than 200 feet and a depth to width ratio
shall not be greater than 3 to 1.
   (B)   Development of residential parcels. A parcel or tract of land may be
divided to create more than one residential parcel.  A strip subdivision
however is not permissible except in conformity with this section.  Spacing
between residential parcels is based on the minimum spacing required for
residential parcels as far as frontage.
   (C)   Residential parcels requirements.  All newly created residential
parcels must have a limited topographical survey showing a drainage plan and
site plan for buildings and driveways.
   (D)   Frontage limitations.  The dominant tract or parcel from which any
newly created residential parcel has been created must have at least 200
contiguous feet of frontage remaining.
   (E)   Residential parcel placement limitations.  Residential parcels may not
be developed on county roads that are not part of the county road inventory.
   (F)   Parent parcel tract. A parent parcel or tract is a combination of
parcels that are contiguous and are of the same common ownership. A parent
parcel may divide into additional residential parcels under the following
conditions:
      (1)   One residential parcel for each 30 acres up to 150 acres.  An
additional residential parcel for each 50 acres above 150 acres.
      (2)   All residential splits may be done individually or as a combination
of residential parcels and a minor subdivision.
      (3)   A parent parcel may not be further split or divided for residential
purposes for seven years after the original purchase.
(`88 Code, § 8-7)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-6-
05; Am. Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-20-09)
§ 157.041  SUBDIVISIONS; RESIDENTIAL USE RESTRICTIONS.
   
Appendix B to this chapter lists the general residential use restrictions for
subdivisions.
(`88 Code, § 8-8)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.042  RESTRICTIONS; RESIDENTIAL USE.
   (A)   In a residential district, no part of an accessory building may be
located closer to a side lot line than ten feet, no closer to the front line
than the rear line of the principal building, and no closer to the rear lot
line than ten feet.  However, whenever a rear or side lot line is subject to an
easement, no structure may be erected on the easement.
   (B)   All minimum lot sizes will be subject to state and county Health
Department regulations regarding accommodation of septic systems per each
individual lot.  Lot sizes in these cases shall be governed by Health
Department requirements and increased accordingly regardless of the minimum
size specified by this chapter.
   (C)   In any district, an accessory building may not be erected before the
principal building, except on a farm.
   (D)   In the case of a through lot, the area at each end of the lot between
the setback line and the middle of the street shall be treated as if it were
part of the front yard.
   (E)   Where an existing parcel of land with a residential dwelling thereon
is divided by deed into two or more parcels, all parcels must meet the
requirements of this chapter unless the variance has been obtained for a
division to a lesser parcel.
   (F)   In the case of an approved subdivision, a platted lot thereof may not
be further subdivided for residential purposes other than to add to the square
footage of adjoining residential lots, unless a variance has been obtained from
the Commission.
   (G)   No outside storage is permitted in a residential area unless it is
screened by vegetation or a structure so as to block the view of the storage
area from the public right-of-way and adjacent properties.  This section does
not apply to outside storage necessary for the construction of a home or other
structure.
   (H)   No radio towers or TV antenna towers in any district may exceed the
height of 75 feet as measured from the ground level as the base of the tower,
whether freestanding or attached to a building.  This provision does not apply
to communication towers that are structurally regulated by federal or state
regulations.
   (I)   The table in
Appendix C to this chapter lists the general requirements for residential use,
except where otherwise provided.
(`88 Code, § 8-9)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.043  RESTRICTIONS; BUSINESS USE.
   The table in
Appendix D and Table I of
Appendix G of this chapter list the general requirements pertaining to all
business uses.
(`88 Code, § 8-10)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.044  RESTRICTIONS; INDUSTRIAL USE.
   The table in
Appendix E and Table II of
Appendix G of this chapter list the general requirements pertaining to all
industrial uses.
(`88 Code, § 8-11)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 157.055  BUILDING SETBACK.
   All buildings must have a minimum setback from all road rights-of-way of 30
feet.
(`88 Code, § 8-12)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.056  BUFFERING; MINIMUM DISTANCES FROM RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   (1)   A mineral extraction area, borrow pit, or topsoil removal area
(including storage area), industrial waste facility, penal or correctional
institution, public or commercial sewage disposal plant, sales barn for
livestock resale, slaughterhouse, truck freight terminal, or wholesale produce
terminal may not be located closer to an R-1, R-2, R-3, or IR district than 750
feet. 
      (2)   A junk yard may not be located closer to this type of district than
1,320 feet. 
      (3)   All these uses may further require a greenbelt or buffering as
specified by the Board.
   (B)   Mining of sand, gravel, topsoil, peat, or other aggregate shall be
located no nearer than 200 feet from a residential district boundary line, and
these operations and uses shall not be nearer than 50 feet from any lot line. 
A plan for land improvements approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals may be
required.  Plans may include a contour map of land prior to establishing the
use, boundary lines of acres to be excavated, and locations of vehicular
ingress and egress and artificial lighting installations, if any; also plans
for grading, seeding, and landscape improve- ments to be completed upon
termination of the use.  Buildings, structures, and equipment for screening,
crushing, or washing, shall not be allowed except as specifically authorized by
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   Whenever approval for the mining of sand, gravel, topsoil, peat, or
other aggregates is given by the Board of Zoning Appeals, the petitioner shall
post a bond with the county to insure land reclamation after the mining
operation ceases.  The amount of the bond shall be set by the Board of Zoning
Appeals at an amount sufficient to provide funds for grading, seeding,
landscaping, and any other improvements necessary to restore the natural
character of the land.  The bond shall be any form of security including a cash
deposit, surety bond, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the Commission.
   (D)   Junk yards or automobile wrecking yards may be permitted by the Board
of Zoning Appeals after publication of notice and hearing, provided that they
shall be located no closer than 1,320 feet from an existing street, road, or
highway and adjoining neighbor, and provided that before a permit is issued,
the junk yard shall be screened so that it is not visible from the street,
road, and adjoining neighbors.
(`88 Code, § 8-12)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.057  BUFFERING; SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Some uses requiring a special exception shall either be fenced with a
six-foot wire mesh fence, or screened with tight screen planting which shall
attain at least six feet in height and three feet in width three years after
installation.  Which uses require screening and, if required, whether it shall
be a fence or natural screen planting, shall be at the discretion of the
Commission.
   (B)   The following uses require fences, screens, or walls as indicated:
      (1)   Outdoor theater:  eight-foot painted board fence;
      (2)   Private swimming pool:  four-foot protective fence;
      (3)   Public or commercial dump, garbage, or disposal plant:  six-foot
solid painted fence or natural screening; and
      (4)   Public or employee parking area (along the front line and other
boundaries as the Commission considers necessary to protect residential
property), except at approved entrances and exits:  four-foot masonry wall, six
inches thick.
(`88 Code, § 8-12)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.058  ENTRANCES.
   All uses are limited to one entrance, with the exception of airports,
heliports, cemeteries, outdoor commercial recreational enterprises, and
stadiums or coliseums, which are limited to two entrances.
(`88 Code, § 8-12)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.059  FENCES.
   (A)   Residential boundary fences cannot exceed six feet in height from the
natural grade of the residential lot and adjoining lot.  Boundary fences will
not be placed on any road or thoroughfare easement.
   (B)   If applicable to the style of fencing, the decorative portion of the
fence will face the outside perimeter.
(`88 Code, § 8-12)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.060  PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   To reduce traffic problems and hazards by eliminating
unnecessary on-street parking, every use of land must include on-premises
parking sufficient for the needs normally generated by the use, as provided by
this section and
Appendix F to this chapter. 
      (2)   Parking spaces or bays contiguous to the street, required by
Chapter 153 or other ordinances, are in addition to and not in place of the
spaces so required.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section and for
Appendix F, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PARKING AREA.  A group of parking spaces, or an open area not including
any part of a street or an alley, designed or used for the temporary parking of
motor vehicles.
      PARKING SPACE.  An area, not including any part of a street or an alley,
designed or used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle.
   (C)   Parking spaces shall be provided as described in the table in
Appendix F to this chapter.
   (D)   Each of the parking spaces required by this section and
Appendix F must be at least nine feet wide and 20 feet long, exclusive of
passageways.
   (E)   The parking spaces prescribed by this section and
Appendix F for a business or an industrial use must be located on the premises
or on a site approved by the Board, at least part of which is within 300 feet
of the premises.  However, parking spaces may not be located in the required
front yard, except in AB, LB, and I districts.
   (F)   A parking area for a business use must, if in the open, be paved with
a hard or dustproof surface.
   (G)   A group of business or industrial uses may provide a joint parking
area if the number of spaces in the area at least equals the aggregate of the
spaces required for the several uses.
   (H)   A church or temple that requires a parking area at times when nearby
uses do not need their parking facilities may, by agreement approved by the
Board, use those facilities instead of providing its own.
   (I)   Parking requirements may be waived by the Board for uses in a block in
which 50% or more of the area is occupied, at the time this code is passed, by
business or industrial structures.
(`88 Code, § 8-12)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.061  RESTRICTED ZONE ALONG STREAMS AND FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   No structure other than a fence may be erected and, if erected in
violation of this section, no other structure may be used, if the location of
the structure is within 100 feet of the meander line of any stream shown on the
zoning maps or within the flood hazard areas as shown on the maps prepared by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
   (B)   Within the areas covered by the restrictions imposed by division (A)
above, no use is permitted other than the following, except upon application
for an improvement location permit under §§
157.115 through
157.118:
      (1)   Agricultural uses;
      (2)   Forestry;
      (3)   Public utilities; and
      (4)   Recreation.
   (C)   (1)   No structure, other than a fence, may be erected within 440 feet
of any lake which has a legally established level, unless the lowest part of
the finished floor structure is at least six feet above that legal lake level. 
      (2)   The legal levels of lakes in the county are available from the
County Planner, the state Department of Natural Resources, or the U.S. Geologic
Survey.
(`88 Code, § 8-13)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.062  PONDS; FENCING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any pond to be located adjacent to an established residence, or on property
adjacent to a residential zoned area, shall be fenced with a six-foot woven
wire fence unless the side slopes of the pond do not exceed a three-to-one
ratio.
(`88 Code, § 8-14)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.063  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers may not be placed on any lot
or parcel for continuous occupancy of greater than four consecutive days unless
the placement is in a campground used for that purpose or a mobile home park.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers cannot be used, located, or
placed on any lot or parcel on a continuous basis for use as a weekend,
vacation, or summer residence.
   (C)   No permanent structure may be erected or used on any parcel for use
with the occupancy of an RV or travel trailer, such as porches or storage
sheds, unless the RV or travel trailer is located in an RV park or campground.
   (D)   Any person in violation of the provisions of this section will have 24
hours to remove such recreational vehicle/travel trailer once notified of the
violation.  Failure to do so will subject the individual to the fines and
penalties as specified by this code.
   (E)   The Building Commissioner, in his or her discretion, may issue a
temporary permit for a period not to exceed 14 days, for the limited placement
of an RV or travel trailer, whether for extended vacation usage or emergency
residential purposes, so long as appropriate health permits regarding sewage
and sanitation and electrical permits have been complied with.
(`88 Code, § 8-21)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-6-
05)
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
§ 157.075  PERMITTED SIGNS.
   The following signs are permitted in all districts.
   (A)   “For Sale” or “For Rent” signs.  One “For Sale” or “For Rent” sign,
not more than 12 square feet in area, for each dwelling unit, garage, or other
quarters where appropriate, shall be permitted.
   (B)   Agricultural signs.  One sign, not more than 32 square feet in area,
pertaining to the sale of agricultural products raised on the premises, shall
be permitted.
   (C)   Government signs.  Signs established by, or by order of, any
government agency shall be permitted.
   (D)   Construction signs.  One sign, not more than 60 square feet in area,
for construction and development, giving the name of the contractors,
engineers, or architects, shall be permitted, but only during the time that
construction or development is actively under way.
   (E)   Event signs. 
      (1)   For an event of public interest such as a county fair or a church
event, one sign, not over 32 square feet in area and located upon the site of
the event, shall be permitted.  The sign shall not be erected more than 30 days
before the event in question and shall be removed immediately after the event.
      (2)   Also permitted are directional signs, not more than three square
feet in area, showing only a directional arrow and the name of the event of
public interest.  These signs shall not be erected more than 14 days before the
event in question and shall be removed immediately after the event. 
      (3)   Street banners shall be permitted subject to the approval of the
Board.
   (F)   Real estate development signs.  For each real estate development that
has been approved in accordance with
Chapter 153 of this code, one sign, not over 300 square feet in area,
advertising the sale of property in that subdivision shall be permitted, but
only when located on some portion of the subdivision being advertised for
sale.  This type of sign may be illuminated.  The sign shall be maintained only
during that time when some portion of the land advertised for sale remains
unsold.  Permits for this type of sign shall be issued for a one-year period
and may be renewed for additional one-year periods to allow time for reasonable
display.
   (G)   Flashing or animated signs.  No intermittent flashing or animated
signs shall be permitted.
   (H)   Temporary occasion or event signs.  Pennants, banners, portable signs,
and/or similar devices may be permitted for special events lasting no more than
90 days per calendar year, provided they are displayed so as not to obstruct a
clear view of traffic, traffic lights, and/or signals.  These displays are to
be placed entirely within the confines of property displaying the devices and
shall be placed off all rights-of-way.  These portable devices shall not emit
any flashing lights and/or lighted moving devices.  No more than one portable
device shall be displayed on the same parcel of property unless there is a
minimum of 60 feet between each device.  No business or on-premise lighted
political signs shall be displayed in residential zoning or within 500 feet of
residential zoning.  Any or all displays shall be constructed and/or installed
and shall be maintained and kept in orderly condition and good repair.  Written
permission must be obtained from the Zoning Administrator.
   (I)   Garage or yard signs and sales. 
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         GARAGE OR YARD SALE.  A public or private sale conducted by the owner
or occupier of a premise, and conducted within a residence, garage, or other
accessory buildings, or outside thereof, which sale is of six or more items of
personal property owned or in the possession of the owner or occupier of the
premises, which personal property was not acquired by the owner or occupier for
the purpose of resale.
      (2)   (a)   A garage or yard sale may be conducted three times in any one
calendar year on any premises, but no garage or yard sale shall be conducted
for more than five consecutive days. 
         (b)   Signs can be posted up to seven days prior to sale day and
removed no later than two days after the sale day.
      (3)   The garage or yard sale shall be conducted during the hours from
sunrise to sunset.
      (4)   (a)   All personal property exhibited for sale outside any
structure during the garage or yard sale shall be removed from the outside and
placed within a structure immediately following the last day of the sale. 
         (b)   All signs for the garage or yard sale shall likewise be removed.
(`88 Code, § 8-15)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-
13-00)
§ 157.076  SIGNS; LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No portion of any sign may project over or onto a public right-of-way
or road.
   (B)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where by reason
of its position, wording, size, shape, color, or illumination, it may obstruct,
obscure, impair, or interfere with the view of, or be confused with any
traffic-control device, signal, or sign.
(`88 Code, § 8-15)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-
13-00)
§ 157.077  OFF-PREMISE COMMERCIAL SIGNS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this title, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF-PREMISE COMMERCIAL SIGN.  A structure or accessory usually elevated
above ground’s surface, which communicates the availability of goods, services,
or ideas not necessarily available on the premises on which the sign is
located.
   (B)   (1)   Off-premise commercial signs are permitted only in AB, GB, LB,
I, and IR zoning districts and only along state, interstate, and federal
highways.
      (2)   No off-premise advertising signs shall be located or placed on any
county road.
   (C)   Off-premise signs shall not exceed 672 square feet per facing,
extensions not to exceed 328 square feet, and shall contain no more than one
sign per facing (two advertising faces total per structure) on the I-80/90 Toll
Road and I-94.  Off-premise signs along all other highways shall not exceed 300
square feet per facing and shall contain no more than one sign per facing (two
advertising faces total per structure).  No side-by-side or deck structures
shall be allowed on the I-80/90 Toll Road or I-94, or any other highways.  No
rotating signs shall be permitted.
   (D)   The maximum height of an off-premise sign shall not exceed 50 feet to
the top of the sign.  The height shall be measured from the center line of the
street or highway from which it is to be viewed.  From grade to bottom of sign,
the distance shall be 21 feet minimum.
   (E)   Off-premise sign structures shall be back to back or a “v” design; 20
feet maximum for a “v” design on the I-80/90 Toll Road and I-94.  Off- premise
signs on state highways shall be back-to-back only.
   (F)   The distance between lawfully erected off- premise sign structures
shall be a linear measure taken along the center line of the street or highway
on which the sign is to be located.
      (1)   Separation of one off-premise sign to another off-premise sign
shall be at least 1000 linear feet, along the way (in either direction) of the
Toll Road or Interstate 94.
      (2)   Separation of one off-premise sign to another off-premise sign
shall be at least 1,320 feet, along the way (in either direction) on all state
highways.
      (3)   No off-premise advertising sign shall be placed closer than 500
feet from an on-premise advertising sign as measured on the same side of the
roadway.
      (4)   Separation from an off-premise sign to any platted residential
district or recorded subdivision shall be 500 feet.
      (5)   Separation from an off-premise sign to any school or church shall
be 300 feet.
   (G)   A building permit is required for all off- premise signs in the
county.  Off-premise sign permits will need to include a plat of survey
performed by a registered land surveyor, indicating all buildings, sign
location, dimensions, elevations, and proposed location of sign with
measurements from other placed signs, schools, churches, and any residential
development in unincorporated areas of the county.  A lease, signed by the
property owner and giving permission to erect an outdoor advertising sign, must
also be furnished.
   (H)   Sign owners’ nameplate shall appear on signs in a visible place.
(`88 Code, § 8-16)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-
13-00)
§ 157.078  ON-PREMISE COMMERCIAL SIGNS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this title, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ON-PREMISE COMMERCIAL SIGN.  A sign which advertises the sale or lease of
a property upon which it is located, or a sign which advertises activities
conducted on the property upon which it is located.
   (B)   On-premise commercial signs are permitted only in A, AB, GB, LB, I,
IR, and SC districts.  No more than one business structure may be erected on
each street frontage of a business parcel.  Placement must be at least 100 feet
from any roadway intersection as measured from the edges of the right-of-way. 
If the sign is placed at the corner of the right-of-way intersection on the
business property, there shall only be one placement and that placement shall
stand for both street frontages.
   (C)   No part of any sign attached to the exterior wall of a building shall
be erected to a height of six feet above the roof line or parapet line of the
building.
   (D)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within 500 feet of any
residential district unless it is so designed that it does not reflect or shine
light onto that district.
   (E)   No part of any freestanding sign shall be erected to a height greater
than 50 feet.  The height shall be measured from the center line of the street
or highway from which it is to be viewed.  From grade to bottom of sign, the
distance shall be a minimum of ten feet.
   (F)   The minimum setback of freestanding signs from street rights-of-way
shall not be less than ten feet.
   (G)   The size of a business sign shall not exceed 150 square feet.
(`88 Code, § 8-16)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-
13-00)
§ 157.079  COMMERCIAL SIGNS; MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Maintenance.  All signs and sign structures shall be kept in repair
and in proper state of preservation.
   (B)   Removal.  Signs which are no longer functional, in disrepair, or are
abandoned for more than 60 days, shall be removed within 30 days following
notice of non-compliance, at the expense of the owner of the sign and/or
property owner on which the sign is located.  The company and/or owner shall be
notified by certified mail.
(`88 Code, § 8-16)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-
13-00)
§ 157.080  EXISTING COMMERCIAL SIGNS; NON-CONFORMITY.
   Any legally established non-conforming sign shall be permitted without
alteration in size or location.  If this type of sign is damaged, exceeding 60%
of its replacement value, it shall not be rebuilt; provided, however, that
nothing herein shall prevent the maintenance, repainting, or posting of legally
established non-conforming signs.
(`88 Code, § 8-16)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-
13-00)
PAGING TOWERS/WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS PLACEMENT
§ 157.090  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE. A subordinate structure, building or use that
is customarily associated with, and is appropriately and clearly incidental and
subordinate in use to the WCF, and is located on the same lot as the WCF.
   ANTENNA. A device used to collect or broadcast electromagnetic waves,
including both directional antennas, such as panels and microwave dishes, and
omnidirectional antennas, such as satellite dishes.
   CAMOUFLAGE. A structural design or treatment, including colors, intended to
conceal and make a WCF visibly compatible with the surrounding area.
   TOWER. A structure designed and intended to support one or more antennas.
This term includes lattice-type structures, either self-supporting or
monopoles, which are self-supporting pole-type structures, tapering from base
to top and supporting a fixture designed to hold one or more antennas. This
term does not include guyed structures.
   USER. A wireless communication provider (company, corporation, individual,
and the like) which is licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
to operate wireless networks for cellular phones, wireless communication
devices, personal communications service (PCS) devices or other wireless
communication.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY (WCF). Any facility used by a licensed
commercial wireless telecommunications provider to provide service, including
but not limited to cellular, personal communication services, specialized
mobilized radio, enhanced specialized mobilized radio, paging, and other
similar services that are marketed to the general public.
(`88 Code, § 8-22)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2007-25, passed 12-
4-07)
§ 157.091  REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements apply to all wireless communications facilities
regardless of location and are to be supplemented with the specific
requirements set forth below.
   (A)   The location of any wireless communications tower and accessory
equipment structure(s) shall comply with other applicable standards of this
chapter not specifically indicated in this section, including but not limited
to those for floodplains and wetlands.
   (B)   All wireless communication facilities shall be fully automated, shall
not require attention on a daily basis, and shall be visited only for periodic
and necessary maintenance or emergencies.
   (C)   A wireless communications facility shall be approved as a permitted or
conditional use only when being constructed for the purpose of providing
wireless communication coverage for a wireless communications provider or user
licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). There shall be at
least one FCC licensed user or public safety communication facility associated
with a new tower application.
(`88 Code, § 8-22)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2007-25, passed 12-
4-07)
§ 157.092  SITING HIERARCHY OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   Siting or placement of new wireless communications facilities and/or towers
shall be in accordance with the following hierarchy. The order of ranking shall
be #1 (highest) through #3 (lowest): (1) co-location, (2) existing structure or
building utilization, (3) new wireless communications facility tower location.
If a lower ranked alternative is proposed, the applicant must have substantial
evidence that a higher ranked alternative is not feasible or available.
   (A)   Co-location. The co-location of antenna on existing towers shall
comply with the following regulations:
      (1)   Co-location of new antennas upon existing towers shall be permitted
in all zoning districts provided that applicant meets all development standards
in §
157.093.
      (2)   An accessory equipment structure which accompanies a tower or an
antenna shall meet the setback requirements for structures in the zoning
district in which it is located. Any building over 144 square feet requires a
building permit.
   (B)   Existing structure or building utilization. The utilization of
existing structures and/or buildings for the placement of antennas shall comply
with the following regulations:
      (1)   The placement of new communication antennas on pre-existing
structures shall be permitted in all zoning districts provided the applicant
meets all development standards in §
157.093.
      (2)   Placement of an antenna on an existing building shall be a
permitted use in all zoning districts. When placed on an existing building
antennas must be inconspicuously mounted on the building or structure other
than a tower, using camouflage techniques whenever feasible.
      (3)   Antennas located on the roof of the building or structure shall
extend a maximum of 25 feet or 20% of the height of the building or structure
(whichever is greater) above the existing building or structure.
      (4)   Antennas located on the side of the building or structure shall
project no more than six feet from the facade of the building or structure; may
not extend over any public way without obtaining the prior written approval of
the Building Commissioner; and must be so designed as to be architecturally
consistent with the building or structure.
      (5)   An accessory equipment structure which accompanies a tower or an
antenna shall meet the setback requirements for structures in the zoning
district in which it is located. Any building over 144 square feet requires a
building permit.
   (C)   New wireless communications facility tower siting.
      (1)   New wireless communications facilities or towers and associated
equipment shall comply with the following regulations:
      (2)   New wireless communications facilities or towers shall not be
constructed or erected without special exception approval through the BZA. The
BZA shall approve, approve with conditions or deny conditional use permit
applications for wireless communications facilities or towers based on
consideration of the following conditions:
         (a)   Wireless communications facilities or towers shall not be
located within 1,000 feet of any recorded residential subdivision.
         (b)   Wireless communications facilities or towers shall not be
located within 500 feet of a residential structure not owned by the applicant.
         (c)   Distance between towers must maintain a minimum of two miles.
         (d)   Any tower that is 150 feet or taller shall be capable of co-
location of at least four additional users. Any tower that is less than 150
feet shall be capable of co-location of at least two  additional users.
         (e)   A new tower shall not be greater than 199 feet in height. A new
tower shall be designed at a height that will not require lighting as required
by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). A Determination of No Hazard
Letter issued by the FAA shall demonstrate that lighting is not required prior
to the issuance of a building permit by LaPorte County.
         (f)   Prior to the issuance of a permit for a new tower, the applicant
shall demonstrate that a higher ranking on the siting hierarchy cannot be met.
Below is the burden of proof, of which as least one of the following must be
met in order for a favorable recommendation to be given to the applicant from
the LaPorte County BZA.
            1.   In all applications for construction of a new facility, the
applicant must prove by substantial evidence that a bona fide need exists for
the facility and no reasonable combination of locations, techniques, or
technologies will obviate the need. Or the applicant must prove that it has
made all reasonable efforts to procure antenna space on existing facilities and
that the cost of co-location exceeds the cost of a new facility by at least
50%, or that the owner of the existing facility, structure or building is not
interested in entering into an easement or lease agreement.
            2.   No existing or approved towers, structures, or buildings are
located within the geographic area needed to meet the applicant’s engineering
requirements.
            3.   The BZA may request that a feasibility study be conducted by
the applicant that demonstrates why an existing tower that is not of sufficient
height or structural integrity cannot be extended in height and/or modified to
accommodate the desired height, or to improve the structural integrity of the
tower.
            4.   The owner(s) of each existing tower, structure, or building
upon which co-location would be feasible demands unreasonable fees or
unreasonable contract terms for co-location.
            5.   Placement of the applicant’s equipment on any existing tower,
structure, or building would result in interference which would materially
impair the operation of the applicant’s equipment or the operation of any
existing equipment on the tower, structure, or building, and such interference
cannot be mitigated at a reasonable cost.
(`88 Code, § 8-22)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-
13-00; Am. Ord. 2007-25, passed 12-4-07)
§ 157.093  DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Tower-specific standards. 
      (1)   All towers shall be either monopole or self-supporting lattice
towers.  No guyed towers or other towers requiring guy wires shall be
permitted.
      (2)   The maximum permitted tower height excluding antenna shall be 199
feet above surface grade.
      (3)   All towers shall comply with the national tower code, ANS/EIA/TIA-
222-F and ANS/EIA/TIA-222-F (Annex H), as amended, to ensure compliance with
nationally accepted structural and ice load standards.
      (4)   All towers shall be designed to collapse onto themselves in the
event of a structural failure.
      (5)   All towers shall maintain a galvanized steel finish or shall be
painted a neutral color, subject to any requirements of the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA).
      (6)   A tower shall be located at least 50 feet greater than the tower
height from any public road.
      (7)   A new tower shall not be greater than 199 feet in height.
      (8)   Any tower that is 150 feet or taller shall be capable of co-
location of at least four additional users. Any tower that is less than 150
feet shall be capable of co-location of at least two additional users.
   (B)   Accessory equipment-specific standards. 
      (1)   Accessory equipment buildings - existing or new towers. When an
antenna is located on an existing or new tower, related accessory equipment
shall be:
         (a)   The maximum permitted height for accessory equipment structures
shall be 15 feet.
         (b)   Individual accessory buildings shall not exceed 340 square feet
in area.
         (c)   The architectural style and exterior building materials of an
accessory equipment structure shall be consistent with surrounding development.
         (d)   Accessory equipment structures shall be located within a
reasonable distance of the tower or other structure or building on which the
antenna is mounted.
         (e)   An accessory equipment structure which accompanies a tower or an
antenna shall meet the setback requirements for structures in the zoning
district in which it is located. Any building over 144 square feet requires a
building permit.
      (2)   Accessory equipment - buildings or structures.  Where an antenna is
located on an existing building or structure, related accessory equipment shall
be:
         (a)   Mounted on the roof of the building or structure in an
enclosure, provided the exterior materials of the enclosure are consistent with
that of other equipment mounted on the roof or consistent with the exterior
materials of the building or structure itself;
         (b)   Located within the building itself; or
         (c)   Located in accessory equipment structures in accordance with all
applicable standards.
      (3)   Fencing.
         (a)   In all zoning districts, all facility compounds shall be
enclosed with an eight-foot security fencing which shall include a vehicular
gate.
         (b)   Fences may be constructed of chain-link, wrought iron, or other
similar industry standard metal, plastic, or conventional wood privacy fence.
      (4)   Landscaping.
         (a)   The facility compound shall be surfaced with stone, lawn, or a
combination thereof.  All stone areas shall be maintained free of weeds and any
lawn areas shall be regularly maintained.
         (b)   Existing vegetation (trees and shrubs) shall be preserved around
the perimeter of the facility compound to the maximum extent possible to
preserve a natural visual buffer.
      (5)   Access drives.
         (a)   Facility compounds shall be serviced by an access drive a
maximum of 12 feet in width.
         (b)   On a site with an existing use, access shall be achieved through
use of existing drives to the greatest extent possible.
         (c)   Within the facility compound, parking areas and drives shall be
surfaced with stone, asphalt, or concrete.
         (d)   Stone or slag drives shall be maintained weed-free.
      (6)   Signage. No advertising shall be permitted anywhere on a wireless
communications facility, except for a six square foot identification sign
mounted on the security gate. One “No Trespassing” sign shall be mounted along
or on each side of the fence enclosure with a telephone number of the person to
contact in case of emergency. Such additional signage as may be required by law
shall be permissible.
      (7)   Lighting. No wireless communication tower under 200 feet in height
shall be artificially lighted except to assure safety or as required by the
FAA. The minimum security lighting necessary to secure the tower compound shall
be permitted.  With the exception of motion detection lighting utilizing a
light bulb of 100 watts or less, all security lighting must be directed
downward onto the tower compound itself.
(`88 Code, § 8-22)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-
13-00; Am. Ord. 2007-25, passed 12-4-07)
§ 157.094  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a permit or special exception for a wireless
communications facility shall be submitted to the Building Department and shall
comply with the requirements set forth below.
   (A)   Documentation.  An application for a zoning clearance permit or a
conditional use permit for a new tower shall include the following
documentation:
      (1)   Documentation of inability to comply with co-location requirements.
      (2)   If the tower is to be located on a property owned by another party,
the applicant shall present evidence that the owner of the property has granted
or will grant an easement or lease for the proposed facility and that vehicular
access will be provided to the facility.
      (3)   A site plan at a scale of not less than one inch to 50 feet, which
shall include the following:
         (a)   Size and location of proposed tower and accessory equipment
structure on the property, with dimensions;
         (b)   Elevation drawing of the tower indicating overall height
including antenna;
         (c)   Location, size, height and type of fencing;
         (d)   Location of existing trees and vegetation. Existing trees and
vegetation shall be preserved to the greatest extent possible;
         (e)   Access drive location, width, and surface material;
         (f)   Existing buildings on site or within 500 feet;
         (g)   Distance to any residential structure on an adjacent property;
         (h)   Location and size of any proposed signage.
      (4)   Proof of FCC license.
      (5)   Proof that any airport located within five miles of a proposed new
WCF has been notified, in writing, of the location and height of the proposed
new WCF.
      (6)   Documentation that the owner of a new tower will allow co-location
of other users and will deal fairly and in a timely manner with users wishing
to co-locate.
   (B)   Application for antenna located on existing building or structure.
      (1)   An application for a zoning clearance permit or a conditional use
permit to place an antenna on an existing building or structure shall include
the following information:
         (a)   Height of existing building or structure;
         (b)   Overall height of proposed antenna;
         (c)   Documentation by the owner of the building or structure
indicating that an easement or lease on the building or structure has been or
will be granted; and
         (d)   Location and size of accessory equipment structure.
      (2)   Any application to locate a wireless communications antenna on a
building or structure listed on a historic register (local or national) or
located in an historic district shall be subject to review and approval by the
county Historic and Cultural Preservation Commission.
(`88 Code, § 8-22)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-
13-00; Am. Ord. 2007-25, passed 12-4-07)
§ 157.095  CONSTRUCTION AND NON-CONFORMING PERMITS.
   Construction of all towers must begin within 100 days after issuance of a
building permit. Once construction begins, all towers must be completed within
90 days.  Any permit issued prior to the adoptive date of this amended chapter
must have construction started within 180 days from the date of adoption.  If
construction does not begin within 180 days of issuance, then the permit shall
be void.  All tower placements must be pursuant to the amended provisions of
this chapter thereafter. Extensions may be granted at the discretion of the
Building Commissioner.
(`88 Code, § 8-22)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-
13-00; Am. Ord. 2007-25, passed 12-4-07)
§ 157.096  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   The holder of a permit for a wireless communications facility, or its
successors or assigns, shall dismantle and remove the facility, and all
associated structures, from the site and restore the site to as close to its
original condition as is possible, if at any time the wireless communications
facility has been abandoned for a period of 12 consecutive months.
(Ord. 2007-25, passed 12-4-07)
§ 157.097  CELL TOWER PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The following permit fees are established for the erection of new cell
towers, co-location of antennas on existing towers and the placement of
antennas on existing structures for the propagation of cell phone signals:
      (1)   Construction of a new cell tower and accessory equipment under 199
feet in height - $2,000.
      (2)   Construction of a new cell tower and accessory equipment over 199
feet in height - $2,500.
      (3)   Co-location of an existing cell tower - $1,000.
      (4)   Placement on an existing structure shall be determined by the
County Planner and/or the Building Department not to exceed $1,000.
   (B)   All fees collected by the County Building Department shall remain in
that department’s Unsafe Building Fund.
(Ord. 2007-24, passed 12-4-07)
Cross-reference:
   Unsafe Building Fund, see §
151.78
BUILDING AND IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS
§ 157.115  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This provision is applicable to any structure, including accessory
structures, whose ground floor area exceeds 144 square feet, or any additions
to existing structures where the change will enlarge the ground floor area of
the structure, regardless of the size of the addition.  However, it does not
apply to any interior alterations, other than a change of use, or any exterior
change which does not alter the ground floor area of a structure.
   (B)   All improvement location or building permits shall be valid for 24
months from the date of issuance, and any structure or change in the use of
land must be completed prior to the expiration of the permit.
(`88 Code, § 8-17)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.116  SITE PLAN.
   A person who applies for an improvement location or building permit under §
157.115 above must furnish the Building Commissioner with a plan drawn, showing
the following:
   (A)   The legal description of the land and the address or general location;
   (B)   The location and size of all buildings already on the land and also
those to be erected;
   (C)   The size of all entrances to and exits from the land;
   (D)   Location of property boundaries;
   (E)   All adjacent streets and highways;
   (F)   The estimated cost of construction; and
   (G)   Drainage plan as appropriate or necessary.
(`88 Code, § 8-17)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.117  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For an airport, heliport, hospital, industrial park, mobile home park
or travel trailer park, penal or correctional institution, private recreational
develop- ment, public utility substation or exchange, or shopping center, the
plan furnished under §§
157.115  and
157.116 above must also include a plan of landscape development.
   (B)   As a condition of issuing a permit, the Building Commissioner may
require the relocation of any structure or of any entrance or exit, or the
inclusion of an entrance or exit not shown on the plan, if the requirement is
necessary in the interests of the public welfare or to an appropriate balancing
of the interests of persons in the district and vicinity concerned.
(`88 Code, § 8-17)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.118  RECORDS.
   A record of each improvement location or building permit shall be kept by
the Building Commissioner.
(`88 Code, § 8-17)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
VARIANCES AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 157.130  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      VARIANCE FROM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS or AREA VARIANCE.  A variance which
authorizes deviations from restrictions upon construction and placement of
buildings and structures, or a variance that involves matters such as setback
lines, frontage requirements, height limita- tions, lot size restrictions,
density regulations, and yard requirements.
      VARIANCE OF USE or USE VARIANCE.  A variance which authorizes a use of
land other than permitted in a particular district by ordinance, or a variance
that changes the character of the zoned district by permitting an otherwise
prohibited use.  An AREA VARIANCE is one which does not involve a use which is
prohibited by this chapter, whereas a USE VARIANCE is one which permits the use
of land which is prescribed.
   (B)   Variance of use or use herein shall be characterized as a variance
which authorizes a use of land other than permitted in a particular district by
ordinance or a variance that changes the character of the zoned district by
permitting an otherwise prohibited use.  Use variances if granted are personal
in nature and do not run with the land.
   (C)   In the case of a variance of use:
      (1)   The burden of proof of unnecessary hardship rests with the
applicant;
      (2)   Unnecessary hardship cannot be claimed in terms of economic
opportunity or loss;
      (3)   A claim of unnecessary hardship cannot be based upon self-created
conditions;
      (4)   One who purchases property with knowledge of use restrictions
thereon will not be permitted to claim unnecessary hardship; and
      (5)   The determination of the existence of unnecessary hardship which
would constitute cause for granting a use variance is governed by all relevant
factors which, when taken together, indicate that the property in question
cannot be reasonably put to a conforming use because of limitations imposed
upon it by ordinance, and it must also be shown that the property cannot yield
a reasonable return if used only for the zoned purpose.
(`88 Code, § 8-18)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-6-
05)
§ 157.131  GROUNDS FOR VARIANCES FROM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals may grant variances from the development
standards upon determination in writing that:
   (A)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
   (B)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in the
variance shall not be affected in a substantially adverse manner; and
   (C)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will result in
practical difficulties in the use of the property.  However, this chapter may
establish a stricter standard than the “practical difficulties” standard
prescribed by this subchapter.
(`88 Code, § 8-18)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.132  GROUNDS FOR VARIANCES OF USE.
   Variances of use may be granted from the terms of this chapter upon a
determination in writing that:
   (A)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
   (B)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in the
variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
   (C)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to the
property involved;
   (D)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will constitute an
unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the variance is
sought; and
   (E)   The approval does not interfere substantially with the Comprehensive
Plan.
(`88 Code, § 8-18)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.133  SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The BZA may grant special exceptions from this chapter if the BZA
feels that the petitioner or applicant will comply with all statutory
proceedings, permits, and applications not controlled by this chapter, and
development of the special exception as the BZA deems necessary and
appropriate. 
   (B)   In order to grant a special exception, the BZA must find as follows.
      (1)   Special exception is authorized for that use in that district.
      (2)   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special
exception will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, or
general welfare.
      (3)   The special exception will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
neighborhood.
      (4)   The establishment of the special exception will not impede the
normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district.
      (5)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided.
      (6)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress or
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
      (7)   The special exception may be subject to any additional requirements
of any other administrative body concerning the obtaining of appropriate
permits, copies of which must be provided to the Secretary of the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
(`88 Code, § 8-18)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.134  RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   All variances of use are personal in nature and not transferable
except by permission of the Board of Zoning Appeals. 
   (B)   A request for transfer shall be by petition as applying for any
variance of use.
   (C)   Special exception of use shall be personal in nature and
nontransferable.  Special exceptions regarding developmental standards will run
with the land and are transferable.
(`88 Code, §8-18)  (Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-6-
05)
§ 157.135  EXPIRATION.
   Once granted, any variance whether use of developmental standards or special
exception must be implemented or acted upon within one year from the time the
Board of Zoning Appeals grants such variance or special exception.  Failure to
implement or act upon such special exception within  one year will
automatically create a vacation of such variance or special exception.
(`88 Code, §8-18)  (Ord. 2000-14, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-6-
05)
§ 157.136  SANITARY LANDFILL AND SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL VARIANCE.
   (A)   A variance or special exception to place or develop a sanitary
landfill or solid waste disposal facility may not be granted without the
petitioner first providing to the BZA written approval from the county Solid
Waste District Board as to the need for the sanitary landfill or solid waste
disposal facility, and will meet the district’s criteria.  The petition must
still meet the variance and special exception requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the BZA should grant any variance or special exception
for a facility or landfill, that variance or special exception shall be
contingent upon the petitioner receiving all necessary state and federal
permits for use of and operation of the landfill or facility and the same being
filed with the Building Commissioner prior to beginning any construction or
other activity.
   (C)   (1)   Any variance or special exception granted concerning a landfill
or solid waste disposal facility will be contingent upon the good and sound
operation of the landfill or facility. 
      (2)   In the event of a repeated violation of any state or federal agency
regulation or law concerning the facility or landfill, the petitioner, after
due notice and hearing by the BZA, may be subject to the termination of the
variance or special exception.
   (D)   In the event any action is taken to rescind a variance or special
exception granted under this subchapter, notice and action shall be based upon
the normal due process requirements, as contained in §§
150.60 through
150.71, regarding the application for a variance or special exception.
   (E)   A new petitioner must also include a site plan as provided by §§
157.115 through
157.118 of this code.
(`88 Code, § 8-20)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.137  COMMITMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may require written commitments
prior to the granting of a variance or special exception.  In that event, the
BZA may continue any hearing prior to any receipt of written commitments as
presented by the petitioner.
      (2)   In the alternative, the BZA may grant a variance or special
exception contingent upon receipt of written commitments.  In that event, the
variance or special exception does not take effect until the written
commitments have been presented to, accepted, and approved by the Building
Commissioner, subject to any specific instructions provided by the Board at the
time of granting the variance.
   (B)   (1)   Any oral commitment or representation made by the petitioner at
a hearing for a specialexception or variance, or any request by the BZA made to
a petitioner in order to receive approval for a variance or special exception
as contained in the minutes of the meeting, will make that variance or special
exception, if granted, contingent upon the completion of that representation or
commitment. 
      (2)   In the event that the petitioner or anyone who represents the
petitioner fails to abide by the representation or commitment to which the BZA
may subject a variance or special exception, the Building Commissioner may send
notice to the petitioner of the violation for failure to abide by that
representation or commitment, and the petitioner will have 30 days in which to
correct the violation.  In the event that the violation is not corrected after
that period of time as specified in the Building Commissioner’s letter, then
the special exception or variance shall become void.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may require any other commitments as
provided by §
150.70 of this code.
(`88 Code, § 8-19)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
§ 157.138  WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this section is to provide for the
development of wind generated electricity in LaPorte County but to regulate
siting requirements of such systems to provide for the general safety and well-
being of LaPorte County residents.
   (B)   No individual, business, firm or other entities shall construct,
operate or locate within the unincorporated area of LaPorte County a wind
energy conversion system (WECS) without first having complied with the full
provisions of this section.
   (C)   Structural requirements.
      (1)   Height. Any large WECS or meteorological tower greater than 200
feet tall shall require a special exception use permit and meet all
requirements and height limitations imposed by the FAA rules and regulations.
      (2)   Horizontal extensions. The furthest horizontal extension of a WECS
shall not extend into a required setback by the zoning district or be closer
than 20 feet to any primary structure or ROW easement for any above ground
telephone, electrical transmission, distribution or utilities both under and
above ground.
   (D)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum setbacks for large wind energy conversion systems.
Distance from a... Minimum Setback Distance
Distance from a...                      Minimum Setback Distance
Property line measured from the center  1.1 times the total height (where the
of the WECS to the property line.       blade tip is at its highest point) for
                                        non-participating landowners.
Residential dwelling measured from the  1,000 feet for non-participating
center of the WECS to the nearest       landowners. This is also reciprocal
corner of the structure.                after establishment of a WECS.
                                        1.1 times the total height (where the
Road ROW measured from the center of    blade tip is at its highest point),
the WECS to the edge of the ROW.        provided that the distance is no less
                                        than 350 feet.
Other ROW, such as railroads and        1.1 times the total height (where the
utility easements, measured from the    blade tip is at its highest point),
center of the WECS to the edge of the   provided that the distance is no less
ROW.                                    than 350 feet.
Wetlands, defined by the Corps of
Engineer, measured from the center of   Determined by a permit obtained from
the WECS to the nearest point of the    the Army Corps of Engineers.
wetland in question.
Incorporated limits of a municipality,
measured from the center of the WECS to 1/3 mile.
city/town limits.
A platted and recorded subdivision of   1/4 mile.
LaPorte County.
 
      (2)   Minimum setbacks for small energy conservation systems.
 
Distance     Minimum Setback Distance
from a...
Property
line
measured     1.1 times the total height (where the blade tip is at its highest
from the     point), provided that the distance is no less than the required
center of    yard setback prescribed for that zoning district.
the WECS to
the property
line.
Residential
dwelling
measured
from the
center of    1.1 times the total height (where the blade tip  is at its highest
the WECS to  point).
the nearest
corner of
the
structure.
Road ROW
measured
from the     1.1 times the total height (where the blade tip is at its highest
center of    point), provided that the distance is no less than the required
the WECS to  yard setback prescribed for that zoning district.
the edge of
the ROW.
Other ROW,
such as
railroads
and utility
easements,   1.1 times the total height (where the blade tip is at its highest
measured     point), provided that the distance is no less than the required
from the     yard setback prescribed for that zoning district.
center of
the WECS to
the edge of
the ROW.
Wetlands,
defined by
the Corps of
Engineer,
measured
from the     As determined by a permit obtained from the Corps of Engineers.
center of
the WECS to
the nearest
point of the
wetland in
question.
Public
conservation
lands,
measured
from the
center of
the WECS to  750 feet.
the nearest
point of the
public
conservation
land in
question.
 
      (3)   Minimum setbacks for meteorological towers.
 
Distance from a...                       Minimum Setback Distance
Property line measured from the center   1.1 times the total height, provided
of the WECS to the property line of non- that the distance is no less than the
participating landowners.                required yard setback.
Residential dwelling measured from the
center of the WECS to the nearest corner 1.1 times the total height.
of the structure.
Road ROW measured from the center of the 1.1 times the total height, provided
WECS to the edge of the ROW.             that the distance is no less than the
                                         required yard setback.
Other ROW, such as railroads and utility 1.1 times the total height, provided
easements, measured from the center of   that the distance is no less than the
the WECS to the edge of the ROW.         required yard setback.
 
   (E)   Safety design and installation standards.
      (1)   Equipment type.
         (a)   Turbines. All turbines shall be constructed of new commercially
available equipment.
         (b)   Towers. All towers shall be guyed unless they are designed for
temporary purposes like data collection and will be removed through the owner’s
expense in a timely manner.
         (c)   Used equipment or proto-type equipment. Used, experimental or
proto-type equipment still in testing may be approved by the BZA per the
variance process.
         (d)   All towers shall not be guyed unless they are designed for
temporary purposes.
      (2)   Industry standards and other regulations. All WECS shall conform to
applicable industry standards as well as all local, state and federal
regulations. An applicant shall submit certificates of design compliance that
wind turbine manufacturers have obtained from Underwriter’s Laboratories, DET
norske Veritas, Germanischer Lloyed Wind Energie or an equivalent third party.
      (3)   Controls and brakes.
         (a)   Braking systems. All WECS shall be equipped with a redundant
braking system. This includes both aerodynamic over speed controls (including
variable pitch, tip, and other similar systems) and mechanical brakes. Stall
regulations shall not be considered a sufficient braking system for over speed
protection.
         (b)   Operation mode. All mechanical brakes shall be operated in a
fail safe mode.
      (4)   Electrical components.
         (a)   All electrical components of the WECS shall conform to
applicable local, state and national codes and relevant national and
international standards.
         (b)   Electrical collection cables. All WECS electrical collection
cables between each WECS shall be located underground unless they are located
on public or utility rights-of-way or with prior county approval. All
transmission lines that are buried should be at a depth consistent with or
greater than local utility and telecommunication underground lines standards or
as negotiated with the landowner or the landowner’s designate until the same
reach the property line or a substation adjacent to the property line.
      (5)   Color.
         (a)   Towers and blades shall be painted white or gray or another non-
reflective, unobtrusive color.
         (b)   The applicant for WECS shall comply with all applicable FAA
requirements.
      (6)   Warnings.
         (a)   A reasonably visible warning sign concerning voltage must be
placed at the base of all pad-mounted transformers and substations.
         (b)   Visible, reflective, colored objects, such as flags, reflectors
or tape shall be placed on the anchor points of guy wires and along the guy
wires up to a height of not less than 15 feet from the ground.
      (7)   Climb prevention. All WECS tower designs must include features to
deter climbing from the base of a lattice-based WECS tower or be protected by
anti-climbing devices such as:
         (a)   Fences with  locking portals at least six feet high; or
         (b)   Anti-climbing devices 15 feet vertically from the base of the
WECS tower.
         (c)   Locked WECS tower doors.
      (8)   Blade clearance. The minimum distance between the ground and any
protruding blade(s) utilized on a WECS shall be 15 feet as measured at the
lowest point of the arc of the blades. The minimum distance shall be increased
as necessary to provide for vehicle clearance in locations where over-sized
vehicles might travel.
      (9)   Noise and vibration.
         (a)   Noise and vibration levels shall be in compliance with all
county, state and federal regulations.
         (b)   At no point within 200 feet of a primary residence may the sound
pressure levels from a wind turbine exceed the following sound levels. Sound
levels shall be measured with an octave band analyzer or sound level meter and
associated filer manufactured in compliance with standards prescribed by the
National Standards Institute (ANSI).
Octave Bands for LaPorte County in Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
Hertz (HZ)                         Measured 200 Feet from Edge of Any Primary 
                                   Structure
Octave Bands for LaPorte County in Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
Hertz (HZ)                         Measured 200 Feet from Edge of Any Primary 
                                   Structure
63                                 75
125                                70
250                                65
500                                59
1000                               53
2000                               48
4000                               44
8000                               41
      (10)   Utility interconnection. The WECS, if interconnected to a utility
system, shall meet the requirements for interconnection and operate as set
forth in the electrical utility’s then-current service regulations applicable
to WECS.
      (11)   Waste management. All solid waste whether generated from supplies,
equipment, parts, packaging or operation or maintenance of the facility,
including old parts and equipment, shall be removed from the site in a timely
manner consistent with industry standards. All hazardous waste generated by the
operation and maintenance of the facility, including but not limited to
lubricating materials, shall be handles in a manner consistent with all local,
state and federal rules and regulations.
      (12)   Lighting.
         (a)   Except with respect to lighting required by the FAA, all
lighting shall be shielded so that no glare extends substantially beyond the
boundaries of the wind farm facilities.
         (b)   Any WECS thereof declared to be unsafe by the LaPorte County
Building Commissioner by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster, damage or abandonment is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition or removal in accordance with the procedures set forth in the county
ordinances governing the removal of nuisances.
   (13)   Compliance with additional regulations. Nothing in this section is
intended to preempt other applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
   (F)   Operation and maintenance.
      (1)   Physical modifications. In general, any physical modifications to
any WECS that alters the mechanical load, mechanical load path or major
electrical components shall require recertification. Like-kind replacements
shall not require recertification. Therefore, prior to making any physical
modification, the owner or operator shall confer with the Building Department
and/or Plan Commission to determine whether the physical modification requires
recertification.
      (2)   Interference.
         (a)   Pre-construction. The applicant shall complete a communications
study prior to construction so as to minimize interference with any public or
public serving utility transmissions.
         (b)   Post-construction. If, after construction of the WECS, the owner
or operator receives a written complaint related to interference with local
broadcast residential television, telecommunication, public communication or
microwave transmissions, the owner or operator shall take reasonable steps to
respond to remedy the interference within 90 days.
         (c)   Failure to remedy. After 90 days if the interference is not
remedied, appropriate action will be taken which can result in the inactivity
of the WECS. However, this doesn’t apply to interference with private
telecommunications systems.
   (G)   Decommissioning plan. Prior to receiving siting approval under this
section, the county and the applicant, owner or operator must formulate a
decommissioning plan to ensure that the WECS project is properly
decommissioned. The decommissioning plan shall include;
      (1)   Assurance that the facilities are properly decommissioned upon the
end of the project life or facility abandonment. Applicant’s obligations with
respect to decommissioning shall include removal of all physical material
pertaining to the project improvements to a depth of 48 inches beneath the soil
surface and restoration of the area occupied by the project improvement to as
near as practicable to the same condition that existed immediately before
construction of such improvements. Prior to issuance of a building permit, the
applicant shall provide a contractor cost estimate for demolition and removal
of the WECS facility and will provide financial assurance in an amount at least
equal to the demolition and removal contractor cost estimate, through the use
of a bond, letter of credit or other security acceptable to the county updated
every five years for the cost of decommissioning each tower to be constructed
under that building permit, which security shall be released when such tower is
properly decommissioned as determined by the LaPorte County Building
Commissioner. In the event of abandonment by the owner or operator, the
applicant will provide an affidavit to the LaPorte County Building Commissioner
representing that all easements for wind turbines shall contain terms that
provide financial assurance, including access to the salvage value of the
equipment, for the property owners to ensure that facilities are properly
decommissioned within 12 months of expiration or earlier termination of the
project.
      (2)   The applicant, owner or operator’s failure to materially comply
with any of the above provisions shall constitute a default under this section.
      (3)   Prior to implementation of the existing county procedures for the
resolution of such default (s), the appropriate county body shall first provide
written notice to the owner and operator, setting forth the alleged default
(s). Such written notice shall provide the owner and operator a reasonable time
period, not to exceed 60 days, for good faith negotiations to resolve the
alleged default(s).
      (4)   If the county determines in its discretion that the parties cannot
resolve the alleged default(s) within the good faith negotiation period, the
existing county ordinance provisions addressing the resolution of such default
(s) shall govern.
      (5)   The decommissioning plan will be updated every five years through
the use of a bond, letter of credit or other security acceptable to the county.
   (H)   Application procedures.
      (1)   Conditional use permit for all WECS. The application shall include
the following items which may be supplemental to the County Plan Commission
variance/special exception application:
         (a)   Project description.
            1.   The name(s), address(es) and phone number(s) of the
applicants), owner and operator and all property owner(s) with WECS on their
properties, if known.
            2.   A WECS project summary, including to the extent available, a
general description of the project, including its approximate name plate
generating capacity; the potential equipment manufacturers), type(s) of WECS
(s), number of WECS(s) and name plate generating capacity of each WECS.
            3.   The maximum height of the WECS tower(s) and maximum diameter
of the WECS (s) rotor(s).
            4.   A legal description, address and general location of the
project.
         (b)   Topographic map. Depicting the project site and the surrounding
area which shall encompass an area at least a quarter mile radius from the
proposed project site with contours of not more than five-foot intervals.
         (c)   Creation of a site plan. This shall include distances and drawn
to scale and certified by a registered land surveyor, at an appropriate scale
including distances and drawn showing:
            1.   The proposed location of the wind energy facility, including
planned locations of each WECS tower, guy lines and anchor bases (if any);
            2.   WECS access roads; substations; electrical cabling and
ancillary equipment;
            3.   Primary structures within one quarter mile of any WECS;
            4.   Property lines, including identification of adjoining
properties; setback lines; public roads; location of all above-ground utility
lines within a distance of two times the WECS tower height of any WECS tower;
            5.   Recognized historic or heritage sites as noted by the Division
of Historic Preservation and Archeology of the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources;
            6.   Any wetlands based upon delineation prepared in accordance
with the applicable U.S. Army Corps of Engineers requirements and guidelines.
         (d)   Correspondence with wildlife agencies. For the purposes of
preventing harm to migratory birds, the applicant shall provide written
documentation that he or she is in direct cooperation and in accordance with
the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service and IDEM.
      (2)   Application for an improvement location permit.
         (a)   Application requirements. After approval of the project through
the special exception/variance process, the applicant shall apply to the
Building Commissioner for an improvement location permit after approval from
the BZA. In addition to the information required on the improvement location
permit application, the applicant shall provide the following information to
the Building Commissioner prior to the issuance of an improvement location
permit.
            1.   Dimensional representation of the structural components of the
tower construction including the base and footings.
            2.   Schematic of electrical systems associated with the WECS
including all existing and proposed electrical connections.
            3.   Manufacturer’s specifications and installation and operation
instructions or specific WECS design information.
            4.   An engineer or qualified registered professional engineer
shall certify as part of the building permit application that the turbine,
foundation and tower design of the WECS is within accepted professional
standards, given local soil and climate conditions. An engineering analysis of
the tower showing compliance with the applicable regulations and certified by a
licensed professional engineer shall also be submitted. The analysis shall be
accompanied by standard drawings of the wind turbine structure, including the
tower, base and footings.
            5.   All turbines shall be new equipment commercially available.
Used, experimental or proto-type equipment still in testing shall be approved
by the BZA as per the normal special exception process.
            6.   Necessary recorded access easements and necessary recorded
utility easements, copies of which shall be submitted to the LaPorte County
Building Commissioner.
            7.   No appurtenances other than those associated with the wind
turbine operations shall be connected to any wind tower except with express,
written permission by the BZA.
            8.   A transportation plan showing how vehicles would access the
site and describing the impacts of the proposed energy project on the local and
regional road system during construction and operation.
            9.   A vegetation plan for restoring areas temporarily disturbed
during construction.
            10.   A fire protection plan for construction and operation of the
facility.
            11.   Any other item reasonably requested by the BZA.
            12.   A drainage plan for construction and operation must be
developed and approved by the LaPorte County Drainage Board.
            13.   An erosion control plan must be developed in consultation
with the LaPorte County Soil and Water Conservation District.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 8-5-08)
§ 157.139  GRANDFATHER PROVISION.
   (A)   Any use not in conformity with this chapter and in existence at the
time of adoption may continue.  However, that use may not be expanded,
modified, or transferred without first complying with this chapter.
   (B)   A use that exists on the date on which this title or an amendment to
it is passed may, if otherwise lawful, be continued; and a more restricted use
may be substituted for it, even though that use or the more restricted use does
not conform to this title or the amendment.  A preexisting use may be extended
to other parts of the same building, if the extension involves no structural
changes other than those required by law.
   (C)   A use otherwise covered by division (B) may not be carried on in a
building that is erected after the use becomes a non-conforming use.  However,
a use designated for a building for which a building permit is issued before
this title or an amendment to it is passed may, if otherwise lawful, be carried
on even though it does not conform to the title or amendment, but only if:
      (1)   Construction is diligently carried on before the expiration of 90
days after the date of the permit; and
      (2)   The building is completed according to the filed plans before the
expiration of three years after this code or the amendment to this title, as
the case may be, is passed.
   (D)   A use covered by division (B) or (C) above ceases to be authorized if:
      (1)   It is discontinued for a 12-month period during which it is
succeeded by no other non-conforming use; or
      (2)   It is an open use and five years have elapsed since the date the
code or amendment, as the case may be, was passed.
   (E)   A use otherwise covered by division (B) or (C) may not be carried on
in a building that is damaged, by more than half of its current assessed value,
by fire, explosion, act of God, or the public enemy.
   (F)   Any parcels of land not in compliance with §
157.040 at the time of adoption of this section by the County Commissioners
will have 30 days after such adoption to be brought into compliance. 
Compliance is to have such parcel under separate title with individual sidwell
and taxing key numbers.
(`88 Code, § 8-23)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-6-
05; Am. Ord. 2008-16, passed 8-5-08)
APPENDIX A:  OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF USES
   (A)   Residential uses.
Uses Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
     R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I IR          A
Uses                         Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
                             R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I  IR         A
Boarding, lodging house, bed U   U   U   U  PR SE PR PR PR         SE
and breakfast, tourist home
Dwelling, multiple-family    PR  SE  U   SE SE SE PR PR PR         PR
Dwelling, single-family      U   U   U   U  U  U  PR PR SE         U
Dwelling, two-family         PR  U   U   U  U  U  PR PR SE         PR
Farm seasonal worker housing PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR PR         U
Foster care home             U   U   U   U  PR PR PR PR PR         PR
Fraternity, sorority, or     PR  U   U   U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
student cooperative
Nursing home                 PR  U   U   U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
Planned unit developments    U   U   U   U  U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Major subdivision            U   U   U   U  PR PR PR PR PR         PR
Minor subdivision            U   U   U   U  PR PR PR PR PR         U
Private swimming pool        U   U   U   U  U  U  PR PR PR         U
Retirement home for the aged PR  SE  SE  U  U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Other similar uses*          PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR PR         PR
 
 
Notes:
Key:
U   Permitted use
SE   Special exception
PR   Prohibited use
* In regard to “other similar uses,” the Building Commission has the authority to
determine whether permitted.
 
   (B)   Agricultural uses.
Uses Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
     R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I IR          A
Uses                         Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
                             R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I  IR         A
Artificial lake, farm pond   PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE SE         U
Breeding or raising non-farm PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE SE         SE
fowl, animals
Confined feeding operation   PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR PR         SE
Farm                         U   PR  PR  U  U  U  PR U  U          U
Feed store                   PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR PR PR         U
Grain elevator and storage   PR  PR  PR  SE SE SE PR PR PR         U
Greenhouse, 250 sq. ft. or   PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR SE SE         U
less, for home use
Greenhouse, 250 sq. ft. or
more, commercial, for        PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR U          SE
wholesale or retail growing
Hatchery                     PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR SE         U
Landscaping services         PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR PR SE         U
Livestock yard               PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE PR         SE
Plant nursery                PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR U  SE         U
Other similar uses*          PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR PR         U
 
 
Notes:
Key:
U   Permitted use
SE   Special exception
PR   Prohibited use
* In regard to “other similar uses,” the Building Commission has the authority to
determine whether permitted.
 
   (C)   Industrial uses.
Uses Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
     R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I IR          A
Uses                          Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
                              R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I  IR         A
Bottled gas storage and
distribution, liquified       PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE SE         PR
fertilizer storage and
distribution (commercial)
Chemical manufacturing or     PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE PR         PR
storage
Concrete, gravel crushing     PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE SE         PR
Explosive manufacturing or    PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE PR         PR
storage
Industrial park               PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR U  SE         PR
Industrial waste facility     PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE PR         PR
Industry, heavy               PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR U  SE         PR
Industry, light               PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR U  SE         PR
Liquid fertilizer, commercial PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE SE         SE
storage and distribution
Manufacturing, storage, or    PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE SE         SE
use of explosives
Mineral extraction, borrow
pit, topsoil removal and      PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE SE         U
storage areas
Petroleum tank farm,          PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE SE         PR
commercial
Radio or television tower,
paging and cell towers,       PR  PR  PR  SE SE SE PR U  U          U
wireless communications
Recycling facility,           PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR U  PR         PR
commercial
Salvage or junk yard          PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE PR         PR
Sanitary landfill or final    PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE PR         PR
disposal facility
Slaughterhouse or livestock   PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE SE         SE
facility
Truck freight terminal; truck
maintenance, storage area/    PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR U  SE         PR
truck stop
Other similar uses*           PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE PR         PR
 
 
Notes:
Key:
U   Permitted use
SE   Special exception
PR   Prohibited use
* In regard to “other similar uses,” the Building Commission has the authority to
determine whether permitted.
 
   (D)   Public facilities.
Uses Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
     R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I IR          A
                                                                       Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
Uses                                                                   R- R- R-3   LB GB AB SC I  IR         A
                                                                       1  2
Airport or heliport                                                    PR PR PR    PR SE PR PR SE SE         PR
Churches or synagogues                                                 U  U  U     U  U  U  PR PR SE         U
Clubs, public or union; fraternity or sorority halls; colleges,        PR U  U     U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
universities, business community center
Forestry or wildlife preserves                                         U  U  U     U  U  U  PR U  SE         U
Kindergarten or private day nursery or preschool                       SE SE SE    U  U  SE PR PR PR         PR
Municipal or government buildings (re:  police station, fire station, U  U  U     U  U  U  U  U  U          U
post office, museum, and public library)
Museum, private                                                        PR PR PR    SE SE SE PR PR PR         PR
Penal or any correctional institution                                  PR PR PR    PR PR PR PR SE SE         PR
Public, commercial, or private sewage disposal plant                   PR PR PR    PR SE PR PR SE SE         PR
Public or commercial sanitary fill, refuse dump, or garbage disposal   PR PR PR    PR PR PR PR SE PR         PR
plant, or infectious medical waste facility
Public or employee parking area                                        SE SE SE    U  U  U  PR U  SE         U
Public park                                                            U  U  U     U  U  U  PR U  SE         U
Railroad right-of-way and necessary uses                               SE SE SE    SE SE SE PR U  SE         SE
School, public or parochial                                            U  U  U     U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
School, vocational or trade                                            PR PR PR    U  U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Telephone exchange or public utility substation                        SE SE SE    U  U  U  PR U  SE         U
Transmission lines for gas, oil, and other utilities including         U  U  U     U  U  U  PR U  PR         U
electricity
University, college, or business school                                SE SE SE    U  U  PR PR PR SE         PR
Other similar uses*                                                    PR PR PR    PR PR PR PR PR PR         PR
 
 
Notes:
Key:
U   Permitted use
SE   Special exception
PR   Prohibited use
* In regard to “other similar uses,” the Building Commission has the authority to
determine whether permitted.
 
   (E)   Business uses; automotive.
Uses Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
     R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I IR          A
Uses                          Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
                              R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I  IR         A
Auto accessory and parts      PR  PR  PR  SE U  SE PR U  SE         PR
store
Automobile repair, body shop,
auto dealership, and auto     PR  PR  PR  SE U  PR PR SE PR         PR
wash garage
Auto or truck auctions        PR  PR  PR  PR SE PR PR SE PR         PR
Auto or truck rental or lease PR  PR  PR  U  U  SE PR SE PR         PR
service
Auto, truck, trailer, and     PR  PR  PR  U  U  PR PR SE PR         PR
tractor sales establishment
Farm, industrial, utility,
and lawn and garden equipment PR  PR  PR  U  U  PR PR U  PR         SE
sales and service
Filling or service station,   PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR U  PR         PR
auto, light truck, and garage
Public garage and/or parking  PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR U  PR         PR
area
Other similar uses*           PR  PR  PR  PR SE PR PR SE PR         PR
 
 
Notes:
Key:
U   Permitted use
SE   Special exception
PR   Prohibited use
* In regard to “other similar uses,” the Building Commission has the authority to
determine whether permitted.
 
   (F)   Business uses; food sales and service.
Uses Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
     R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I IR          A
Uses                          Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
                              R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I  IR         A
Locker, cold storage          PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR U  PR         PR
facility, and food processing
Meat processing plant         PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR U  PR         PR
Produce market or terminal,   PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR U  SE         SE
wholesale
Restaurant or banquet hall    PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR SE         PR
Retail food sales
establishment, convenience    PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
food store
Roadside stand                PR  PR  PR  U  U  PR PR PR PR         U
Supermarket                   PR  PR  PR  U  U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Wholesale produce terminal    PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR U  PR         SE
Other similar uses*           PR  PR  PR  SE SE PR PR PR PR         PR
 
 
Notes:
Key:
U   Permitted use
SE   Special exception
PR   Prohibited use
* In regard to “other similar uses,” the Building Commission has the authority to
determine whether permitted.
 
   (G)   Business uses; general business.
 
Uses                     Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
                         R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I  IR         A
Banks or financial       PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR U  PR         PR
institutions
Business or professional PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR U  PR         PR
office
Other similar uses*      PR  PR  PR  SE SE PR PR PR PR         PR
 
 
Notes:
Key:
U   Permitted use
SE   Special exception
PR   Prohibited use
* In regard to “other similar uses,” the Building Commission has the authority to
determine whether permitted.
 
   (H)   Business uses; recreation.
Uses Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
     R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I IR          A
Uses                          Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
                              R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I  IR         A
Boat sales, boat rentals, and PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
bait sales
Bowling alley                 PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Business for sale of
alcoholic beverages with or   PR  PR  PR  SE U  PR PR PR PR         PR
without entertainment
Country club or golf course   SE  SE  SE  SE PR SE PR SE SE         SE
Health and athletic club      PR  PR  PR  U  U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Indoor commercial             PR  PR  PR  U  U  PR PR PR PR         PR
recreational enterprise
Lodge or private club         PR  PR  SE  PR U  PR PR SE SE         SE
Outdoor commercial            PR  PR  PR  SE SE SE PR SE SE         PR
recreational enterprise
Public camp and/or travel     PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR PR         SE
trailer park
Riding stable                 PR  PR  PR  PR SE PR PR SE PR         PR
Shooting range                PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR PR         PR
Stadium or coliseum           PR  PR  SE  PR U  PR PR SE PR         SE
Theater, indoor               PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Theater, outdoor              PR  PR  PR  PR SE PR PR SE PR         PR
Other similar uses*           PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR PR         PR
 
 
Notes:
Key:
U   Permitted use
SE   Special exception
PR   Prohibited use
* In regard to “other similar uses,” the Building Commission has the authority to
determine whether permitted.
 
   (I)   Business uses; retail sales.
Uses Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
     R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I IR          A
Uses                          Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
                              R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I  IR         A
Adult book store,
entertainment center, other   PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR PR         PR
adult activities, health spa,
massage parlor
Antique retail shops and      PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
restoration
Clothing and apparel store    PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
Department, hardware, or drug PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
store
Flower and/or gift shop       PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
Furnace or air conditioning   PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR U  PR         PR
sales and service
Furniture sales or            PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR U  PR         PR
manufacturing
Laundry and/or dry cleaning   PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
establishment
Retail business not otherwise PR  PR  PR  SE SE PR PR PR PR         PR
covered
Retail clothing store         PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
Retail sales establishment    PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
Video store                   PR  PR  PR  U  U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Other similar uses*           PR  PR  PR  PR SE PR PR PR PR         PR
 
 
Notes:
Key:
U   Permitted use
SE   Special exception
PR   Prohibited use
* In regard to “other similar uses,” the Building Commission has the authority to
determine whether permitted.
 
   (J)   Business uses; miscellaneous.
Uses Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
     R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I IR          A
Uses                          Residential Business    Manufacturing Agriculture
                              R-1 R-2 R-3 LB GB AB SC I  IR         A
Advertising sign fabrication  PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR U  SE         PR
Auctions, public              PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Barber or beauty shop         PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
Bicycle sales and service     PR  PR  PR  U  U  PR PR PR SE         U
Billboards**                  PR  PR  PR  SE SE SE PR SE SE         SE
Boat sales, service, and      PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR U  PR         U
storage; retail
Cemetery or crematory         PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR SE         SE
Clinic, out-patient           SE  SE  SE  U  U  U  PR U  SE         U
Contractors (general) yard,   PR  PR  PR  PR PR SE PR U  PR         PR
material storage
Home occupation and home      PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR U  SE         U
professional office
Hospital or in-patient        PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
treatment facility
Hotel or motel                PR  PR  PR  U  U  U  PR SE PR         PR
Kennel                        PR  PR  PR  PR SE SE PR U  SE         U
Lumber yard                   PR  PR  PR  PR SE PR PR U  PR         PR
Machine shop                  PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR U  PR         PR
Mini-storage                  PR  PR  PR  SE SE SE PR U  SE         PR
Mobile home park              PR  PR  SE  PR SE PR PR PR SE         PR
Mobile home sales             PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Mortuary                      PR  PR  PR  U  U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Newspaper or printing         PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR PR PR         PR
facility
Photographic studio           PR  SE  SE  U  U  U  PR PR PR         PR
Private landing field         PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR SE PR         PR
Recycling collection center,  PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR PR PR         PR
neighborhood
Rental business               PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR PR PR         PR
Veterinary hospital for large PR  PR  PR  PR SE PR PR PR PR         U
animals
Veterinary hospital for small PR  PR  PR  SE U  U  PR PR PR         U
animals
Warehouse                     PR  PR  PR  PR SE PR PR U  SE         PR
Welding shop                  PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR U  PR         PR
Wholesale business            PR  PR  PR  PR PR PR PR U  PR         PR
Other similar uses*           PR  PR  PR  PR U  PR PR SE SE         PR
 
 
Notes:
Key:
U   Permitted use
SE   Special exception
PR   Prohibited use
* In regard to “other similar uses,” the Building Commission has the authority to
determine whether permitted.
**Refer to §§
157.075 through
157.080, regarding signs and billboards.
 
(`88 Code, § 8-6, Table 1)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2000-14,
passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 2005-11, passed 9-6-05)
APPENDIX B:  RESIDENTIAL LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS
 
Subdivision Lot Area, Square Feet per Dwelling Unit
Type of Unit  Type of Sewage Disposal System District
                                             R-1    R-2, IR R-3    LB, GB, AB
Single-family Individual system              24,000 21,000  18,000 10,000
Single-family Community system               18,000 15,000  10,000 10,000
 
(`88 Code, § 8-8, Table 2)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
APPENDIX C:  RESIDENTIAL USE RESTRICTIONS
   General restrictions on residential use are as follows (except where
otherwise provided).
                        Residential Types and Districts
Requirements Conditions Single-Family      Two-Family        Multiple-Family
                        A, R-1, R-2, R-3,  R-2, R-3, AB, GB, R-3, AB, LB, and
                        AB, LB, GB, and IR IR, and LB        GB
             Stories in One / Multiple     One / Multiple
             building
                          Residential Types and Districts
Requirements Conditions   Single-Family              Two-Family                 Multiple-Family
                          A, R-1, R-2, R-3, AB, LB,  R-2, R-3, AB, GB, IR, and  R-3, AB, LB, and GB
                          GB, and IR                 LB
             Stories in   One / Multiple             One / Multiple
             building
Minimum                   R-1:  1,000 / 800         R-2:  1,600 / 800
ground floor              R-2:  1,000 / 720         R-3:  1,300 / 800         Same as two-family plus
area (square              Other:  800 / 720         A:  1,200 / 800           400 sq. ft. for each
feet)                                                AB, LB, GB:  1,300 / 800  additional unit
                                                     IR:  1,600 / 1,000
             In districts R-1:  150                 R-2:  120                 R-2:  100
Minimum      indicated,   R-2:  120                 R-3:  100                 R-3:  100
width lot    for          R-3:  100                 AB, LB, GB:  100          AB, LB, GB:  100
(feet)       subdivisions AB, LB, GB:  100          IR:  120
                          IR:  120
Maximum                   R-1:  45                  R-2:  45                  R-2:  45
building                  R-2:  45                  R-3:  55                  R-3:  55
height                    R-3:  45                  A:  55                    AB, LB, GB:  55
(feet)
Minimum      25% of lots  Average of existing        Average of existing        Average of existing
front        in a block   setback                    setback                    setback
setback      are occupied
Minimum                   Local street:  25         Local street:  25         Local street:  25
front                     Feeder street:  35        Feeder street:  35        Feeder street:  35
setback                   Primary or major street:  Primary or major street:  Primary or major street: 
(feet)                    40                         40                         40
Minimum side
yard setback              15                         15                         15
(feet)
Minimum rear
yard setback              25                         25                         25
(feet)
Maximum lot  Shall not    R-1:  25%                 R-2, R-3:  30%            R-2, R-3:  30%
coverage     exceed
 
(`88 Code, § 8-9, Table 3)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 2005-11,
passed 9-6-05)
APPENDIX D:  BUSINESS USE RESTRICTIONS
   General restrictions for business use are as follows.
Requirements Districts
             LB GB AB SC
Requirements      Districts
                  LB       GB                AB                SC
Minimum lot size  10,000   5,000 restriction 5,000 restriction 5 acres
                                                               restriction
Use requiring a   2 acres  2 acres           2 acres           5 acres
special exception
Minimum lot width 100 feet 1:2 ratio         No restriction    No restriction
Minimum front
yard, when        40 feet  40 feet           40 feet           25 feet
opposite
residential
Minimum front
yard, when        25 feet  25 feet           25 feet           25 feet
opposite all
other frontage
Minimum front
yard, when        Same as adjacent residential district in same block or 40
adjacent to       feet, whichever is greater
residential
Minimum side yard 15 feet  15 feet           15 feet           25 feet
Minimum rear yard 15 feet  10 feet           10 feet           10 feet
Maximum building  35 feet  35 feet           35 feet           35 feet
height
Vision clearance  Yes      Yes               Yes               Yes
on corner lots
Off-street/
loading unloading Yes      Yes               Yes               Yes
berths; (Minimum
area:
10 feet x 50 feet
x 14 feet)
(See
Appendix G, Table
I of this
chapter)
 
(`88 Code, § 8-10, Table 4, part 1)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
APPENDIX E:  INDUSTRIAL USE RESTRICTIONS
   General restrictions for industrial use are as follows.
Requirements Conditions Industrial Types
                        Light Industry Heavy Industry Mineral Extraction
                                   Industrial Types
Requirements     Conditions        Light Industry Heavy Industry Mineral
                                                                 Extraction
Minimum lot area                  10,000 sq. ft. 1 acre         3 acres
                 For uses
Minimum lot area requiring a       2 acres        5 acres        15 acres
                 special exception
Minimum lot                       100 feet       200 feet       350 feet
width
Minimum front    Opposite other    25 feet        25 feet        25 feet
setback          industrial
                 Adjacent and/or
Minimum front    opposite          Same as minimum for residential and business
setback          residential and   uses
                 business
Minimum front    Uses requiring
setback          special           300 feet       300 feet       300 feet
                 exceptions
Minimum side                      30 feet        30 feet        30 feet
yard setback
Total on all                      10 feet        10 feet        10 feet
other sides
Minimum side     Use requiring
yard setback     special           300 feet       300 feet       300 feet
                 exceptions
Rear yard                         10 feet        10 feet        10 feet
setback
Rear yard        Use requiring
setback          special           300 feet       300 feet       300 feet
                 exceptions
Vision clearance                  14 feet        28 feet        28 feet
on corners
Maximum building                  75 feet        75 feet        150 feet
height
 
(`88 Code, § 8-11, Table 5, part 1)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
Cross-reference:
   Off-street loading and unloading berth requirements for industrial uses, see
Chapter 157, App. G, Table II
APPENDIX F:  PARKING SPACE AND AREA
   Parking spaces and area are required as follows.
Uses Required Parking Spaces
Uses                                    Required Parking Spaces
Airport or heliport                     1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per 4 public
                                        seats
Artificial lake of three acres or more  1 per 2 users
or private swimming pool
Automobile or trailer sales area        1 per 1,000 sq. ft. used for area
                                        retailing
Automobile sales and repair (indoor)    1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor area
Banks, business offices, professional
offices, similar business uses, postal  1 per 500 sq. ft. of floor area
stations, telegraph offices, and
similar service uses
Board or lodging house or fraternity,   1 per 3 occupants
sorority, or student cooperative house
Bowling alley                           3 per lane, plus 1 per 6 spectator
                                        seats
Business uses in AB districts           As determined by the Board to be in
                                        line with comparable uses
Business uses not otherwise listed      As determined by the Board
Cemetery or crematory                   1 per 2 employees plus 1 per 4 seats
Church or temple                        1 per 6 seats in main auditorium
Clinic                                  1 per 2 employees, plus 3 per doctor
College, university, or trade or        1 per 3 students or staff members
business school
Country club or golf course             1 per 2 employees, plus 3 per golf hole
Dancing academy                         1 per 200 sq. ft. of floor area
Department store, retail showroom,
apparel shop, flower area shop,
drugstore, hardware store, stationer,
newsdealer, record shop, photo studio,
barber shop, beauty shop, reducing
salon, restaurant, delicatessen,
bakery, grocery, meat market,
supermarket, cold-storage locker        1 per 125 sq. ft. of floor
service (individual), roadside sales
stand, electrical appliance shop,
radio-TV shop, dressmaker, millinery,
tailor and pressing shop, shoe repair,
dry cleaning shop, self-service
laundry, laundry agency, billiard room,
tavern, night club, and similar
business uses
Fishing or hunting lodge                1
Greenhouse (commercial), facilities for
raising or breeding non-farm fowl or    1 per 3 employees, plus 1 per 125 sq.
animals (commercial), sales barn for    ft. of sales area
livestock
Home occupation                         1 in addition to residence requirement
Home professional office                2 in addition to residence requirement
                                        1 per 4 beds, plus 1 per doctor, plus 1
Hospital                                per 3 employees, plus 1 per hospital
                                        vehicle
Hotel                                   1 per 3 employees, plus 1 per 2
                                        sleeping rooms
Industrial park                         1 per 2 employees on largest shift
Industrial uses generally               1 per 3 employees
Industrial waste facility               1 per employee per shift
Junk yard                               1 per 2 employees
Kindergarten or day nursery             1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per 5
                                        children
Mobile home park or travel trailer park 1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per mobile
                                        home or trailer stand
Mortuary                                1 per 6 seats in main auditorium
Motel                                   1 per sleeping room
Nursing home or home for aged           1 per 7 persons
Outdoor commercial recreational use     1 per 3 employees, plus 1 per 500 sq.
                                        ft. of use area
Penal or correctional institution       1 per 3 employees, plus 1 per 10
                                        inmates (capacity)
Police station or fire station          1 per 3 employees on shift
Private club or lodge                   1 per 6 active members
Private recreational development        1 per 2 customers or members
Public camp                             1 per campsite, plus 1 per cabin
Public library, museum, or municipal or 1 per 125 sq. ft. ground floor area of
government building                     buildings
Public or commercial sewage disposal    1 per employee per shift
plant
Radio or TV tower                       1 per employee per shift
Railway right-of-way, railroad          1 per 2 employees where headquartered
operational use
Railway station or motor bus station    1 per 10 seats in waiting room, plus 1
                                        per 2 employees of connected retail use
Residential use, including farm tenant  1½ per dwelling unit
and farm seasonal worker housing
Riding stable                           1 per 5,000 sq. ft.
School                                  1 per 3 staff members, plus 1 per 6
                                        auditorium seats
Shopping center                         1 per 60 sq. ft. of sales area
Slaughterhouse                          1 per 2 employees
Stadium or coliseum                     3 per 4 employees, plus 1 per 4 seats
Telephone exchange or public utility    1 per employee
substation
Theater (indoor)                        1 per 6 seats
Theater (outdoor)                       1 per 2 employees
Tourist home                            1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per sleeping
                                        accommodation
Truck freight terminal                  1 per 2 employees, plus 4 per customer
Veterinary hospital for small animals   1 per 3 animal spaces (cage or pens)
or kennel
Warehouse (grain elevator)              1 per 2 employees
Wholesale produce terminal              1 per 2 employees
 
(`88 Code, § 8-12, Table 6)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
APPENDIX G:  OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING
   (A)   Table I:  Business Uses; Off-Street Loading/Unloading Berths Required
 
Type of Use              Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.) Loading/Unloading Berths
                                                    Required
Retail stores            3,000 to 15,000            1
Department stores        15,001 to 40,000           2
Wholesale establishments Each 25,000                1
Office buildings         100,000 or less            1
Office buildings         100,001 to 336,000         2
Office buildings         Each 200,000               1
 
(`88 Code, § 8-10, Table 4, part 2)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
   (B)   Table II:  Industrial Uses; Loading and Unloading Berth Requirements
 
Gross Floor Areas of Industrial Use (sq. ft.) Number of Berths Required
15,000 or less                                1
15,001 to 40,000                              2
40,001 to 100,000                             3
Each 40,000 additional                        1 additional
 
(`88 Code, § 8-11, Table 5, part 2)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 11-10-98)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   STREET NAME CHANGES
   
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
   
III.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
   
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
   
V.   STREET VACATIONS
TABLE I:  STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
—      11-25-57    Road in Beacon Hills Unit 1 subdivision is named
                     Meadowlark Lane
—      3-18-68     Old Highway 2 connecting with Old Highway 20 on the east
                     and New Highway 2 on the west is named Oak Knoll Road
86-14    12-22-86    County Road 700 E, between U.S. Highway 20 on the north
                     and State Road 2 on the south, is renamed Cougar Road
                     In the vicinity of Fish Lake, a segment of Lincoln Drive
                     that intersects with Hillside Drive is renamed Emerick
93-6     3-22-93     Drive, and a segment of Hillside Drive that intersects
                     with County Road 800 E and running to Lincoln Drive is
                     renamed Emerick Drive
2008-10  6-17-08     Elm Road in the Tee Lake Subdivision as recorded in 1928
                     is hereby renamed Maloney Road
                    
 
TABLE II:  CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Authorizing the establishment of an intergovernmental
97-30        12-9-97     agreement with Michigan City, for the purpose of
                         sharing the wagering adjusted gross receipts tax
                         Authorizing entry into an interlocal agreement for
Res. 2003-07 9-30-03     mutual aid and assistance with Jasper County, Lake
                         County, Newton County, and Porter County
                         Authorizing an agreement to pay the City of LaPorte to
Res. 2004-04 6-24-04     construct a large sewer line for future use,
                         accommodation and tie-in by LaPorte County
Res. 2004-05 8-1-04      Purchase agreement authorizing the lease of equipment
                         by the county from Public-Finance.com, Inc.
                         Mutual agreement with City of LaPorte to transfer to
Res. 2004-07 10-19-04    the city the jurisdiction and all right-of-way of Fail
                         Road between Highway 2 and Whitehead Road
                         Memo of understanding between the County of LaPorte
Res. 2005-01 1-24-05     and the State of Indiana concerning the county's
                         participation as a pilot county in the development of
                         Indiana's statewide voter registration system
Res. 2006-11 9-5-06      Agreement to sell certain property to the Northern
                         Indiana Transportation Authority
Res. 2009-01 1-20-09     Agreement to transfer certain parcels of property to
                         the City of Michigan City
Res. 2009-02 3-17-09     Agreement to transfer a certain parcel of property to
                         the Housing Authority of Michigan City
                         Reaffirming and extending an interlocal agreement
Res. 2009-06 10-20-09    between the Board of Commissioners of LaPorte County
                         and the LaPorte Solid Waste District Board
Res. 2010-04 5-5-10      Agreement to transfer certain parcels of property to
                         the City of Michigan City
Res. 2011-01 2-1-11       
Res. 2012-04 8-7-12      Adopting ADA standards for accessibility and public
                         rights-of-way accessibility guidelines
Res. 2012-05 9-4-12      Accepting transfer of excess real property from Center
                         Township
Res. 2012-06 10-9-12     Financing an economic development project
                         Interlocal cooperation agreement and amendment with
Res. 2014-10 10- -14     the cities of LaPorte and Michigan City and Purdue
                         University
Res. 2019-4  4-22-19     Ratifying cash farm lease agreement between the county
                         and John W. Glasgow
                        
 
TABLE III:  FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Approving the transfer of the cable television
Res. 97-5    6-3-97      franchise from US Cable of Northern Indiana to East
                         Arkansas Cablevision, Inc., or to LCNI if the former
                         cannot occur
                         Consenting to the assignment of the cable television
Res. 98-5    5-19-98     franchise held by Tar River Communications, Inc. to
                         any Tele-Communications, Inc. (TCI) subsidiary (such
                         as Communications Services, Inc.) following the merger
                         Approving the change of control of the cable
Res. 98-9    11-24-98    communications franchise held by East Arkansas
                         Cablevision, Inc., as its parent, TCI, merges with a
                         subsidiary of AT&T
                         Approving the change of control of the cable
Res. 98-10   11-24-98    communications franchise held by Communications
                         Services, Inc., as its parent, TCI, merges with a
                         subsidiary of AT&T
                         Approving the transfer of the cable television
Res. 98-12   12-22-98    franchise held by Michiana Cablevision, LLC under its
                         purchase agreement with Ohio Cablevision Network, Inc.
                         Extending the cable television franchise of
98-16        9-22-98     Communications Services, Inc., an indirect subsidiary
                         of TCI
                         Approving the transfer of the cable television
Res. 99-9    8-10-99     franchise held by Triax Midwest Associates, L.P. under
                         its purchase agreement with Mediacom LLC, a New York
                         Limited Liability Company, or to any of its affiliates
Res. 2002-12 9-17-02     Extending the current cable franchise to AT&T
                         Broadband for another calendar year
                        
 
TABLE IV:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezoning a parcel of land located in the south half of the
2004-03  3-2-04      southeast quarter of Section 8 from Agricultural to
                     General Business
                     Rezoning a parcel of land located on the southeast corner
2004-06  4-6-04      of U.S. 30 and C.R. 900 West near the town of Wanatah from
                     Agricultural to General Business
2004-07  5-3-04      Rezoning part of the southwest corner of the northwest
                     corner of Section 21 from Agricultural to General Business
                     Rezoning a parcel of land located in the east half of the
2004-08  5-3-04      southeast quarter of Section 28 from Industrial to R-
                     1 Residential
2004-10  6-22-04     Rezoning certain parcels of property within the county
                     from General Business to PUD districts
2005-15  4-5-05      Rezoning 42.79 acres owned by Norman J. Wagner from
                     Agricultural to R-1 Residential
                     Rezoning a portion of property within Coolspring Township
2005-12  10-4-05     containing a portion of Township Sections 2, 8, 9, 10, 16,
                     17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 to GB-General Business
2005-15  11-15-05    Rezoning a parcel of land located on the northeast quarter
                     of Section 12 from Industrial to Agricultural
                     Rezoning a parcel of land located in the northwest quarter
2005-16  11-15-05    of Section 29 from Agricultural to R-2 Residential Use
                     District
                     Rezoning a tract of land in the southwest quarter of
2006-4   5-9-06      Section 29 from Industrial Reserve District to R-
                     2 Residential District.
                     Rezoning a parcel of real estate located in the west half
2006-5   5-9-06      of the northwest quarter of Section 14 from Agricultural
                     to R-1 Residential
                     Rezoning a tract of land in the southeast quarter of
2006-07  5-23-06     Section 21 from Agricultural Use District to R-
                     1 Residential Use District
                     Rezoning a part of the southeast quarter of Section 31 and
2006-08  6-6-06      part of the southwest quarter of Section 31 from R-
                     2 Residential to LB Local Business
                     Rezoning a parcel of land in the west half of the
2006-10  - -         southwest quarter of Section 24 from Agricultural to R-
                     1 Residential
                     Rezoning a tract of land in the southwest quarter of
2006-11  7-5-06      Section 29 from R-2 Residential to Planned Unit
                     Development
                     Rezoning a certain parcel of land located in New Durham
2006-14  11-8-06     Township from Agricultural Use District to General
                     Business Use District
                     Rezoning a parcel of land in the southwest quarter of
2007-04  3-20-07     Section 7, Township 38 north, Range 3 west from General
                     Business Use District to R-3 Residential
                     Rezoning a parcel of land located in the NW quarter of
2007-22  8-16-07     Section 29, Township 38 north, Range 2 west from
                     Industrial Reserve to R-1 Residential Use.
2007-23  12-4-07     Rezoning a parcel of land from R-1 Residential to GB
                     General Business (Skalka petition)
2007-26  12-4-07     Rezoning a parcel of land from Agricultural to R-
                     1 Residential (Horizon Development, Inc. petition)
11       6-17-08     Rezoning a parcel of land containing .076 acres from R-
                     2 Residential to GB General Business
                     Addition/adoption to the joint zoning ordinance of the
2012-07  11-20-12    county and zoning maps to include the Kingsbury Industrial
                     Park Overlay District
                     Rezoning a parcel commonly known as 7007 Johnson Road from
2015-04  6-3-15      B1 Neighborhood Commercial to B2 General Commercial; and
                     rezoning Parcel No. 460512351022000046 from R1B
                     Residential to B2 General Commercial
                     Rezoning certain real estate commonly known as 307 and 309
2016-4   6-15-16     Johnson Road from R1B Residential to B1 Neighborhood
                     Commercial
2016-7   9-21-16     Amending the county zoning maps
2018-3   9-19-18     Rezoning property located at 1525 South State Road 39 from
                     B2 General Commercial to M1 Light Industrial
2018-5   12-5-18     Rezoning property located at 8310 East 700 North from R1B
                     Residential to B2 General Business
2019-5   3-20-19     Rezoning certain real estate from M1 Light Industrial to
                     Agriculture
2019-9   -  -       Rezoning Parcel No. 46-05-03-400-020.000-046 from B2
                     Business to R2A Townhome Residential
2019-15  8-21-19     Rezoning 3522 S. State Road 104 from M1 Light Industrial
                     to B1 Neighborhood Commercial
                    
 
TABLE V:  STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2010- 2-16-  Vacating a portion of Kolar Drive
02    10
2010- 2-16-  Vacating all of Center Street that lies north of Apple Street, in
03    10     Sandy Beach Addition, Walkerton, Indiana
2010- 6-1-10 Vacating an access roadway between Lots 105 and 106 in the West
05           Stillwell Addition #1
2010- 11-3-  Vacating a portion of Hatfield Street in Rolling Prairie, Indiana,
09    10     located in Section 37 of Kankakee Township
2011- 2-14-  Vacating Louise Drive, located in Lincoln Township
01    11
2011- 3-15-  Vacating a portion of Lakeside Drive that abuts Lots 16, 17, 18, 19,
02    11     20 and 21 in Cassaday’s Addition to Lake Park, Hudson Township
2011- 10-18- Vacating a roadway between Nilewood Lots 120 and 122 in LaPorte,
12    11     Indiana
2012- 4-3-12 Vacating a portion of Cherry Lane adjacent to Lots 3048 and 3049 and
04           Lots 2847 and 2848 of Hudson Lake Beach
             Vacating a portion of Liberty Avenue, also known as Seminole Trail,
2012- 8-7-12 being approximately 67 feet in length and located between Liberty Bell
05           Beach Lot 24 and Lot 1 which is a public way of Saugany Lake, LaPorte
             County, Indiana
2012- 7-17-  Vacating a portion of Lake Side Drive that abuts Lots 16, 17, 18, 19,
06    12     20 and 21, in Cassaday’s Addition to Lake Park, Hudson Township,
             LaPorte County, Indiana
2012- 11-20- Vacating so much of Eric Street as lies north of East Highway 2, alley
10    12     east of Eric Street, alley west of Eric Street and alley north of East
             Highway 2, Rolling Prairie, Indiana
2012- 12-18- Vacating unimproved portion of Morgan Road, LaPorte County, Indiana
11    12
2013- 3-20-  Vacating a portion of the Strawberry Fields Subdivision.
02    13
2014- 12-19- Vacating a public way adjacent to Lots 5466 through 5475 in Hudson
07    14     Lake Beach as recorded in Plat Book 6, Pages 18, 19, and 21 in the
             Office of Recorder of LaPorte County
2015- 2-9-15 Vacating a portion of alleyway adjacent to and in between Lots 6 and
01           7, measuring approximately 132' x 12'
2017- 7-5-17 Vacating unimproved roadway identified as Hillcrest Drive
01
             Vacating roadways and/or alleyways adjacent to or between Lots 23, 24,
2018- 8-1-18 25, 30, 31, 32, 33, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47,
2            48, 49, 54, 55, 56, 57, 61, 62, 63, 64, Wanbaugh and Cass Addition to
             Portland, Indiana (now known as Rolling Prairie)
2019- 3-20-  Vacating an unimproved public way identified as the 20' alley un-
6     19     improved 0.11 acres
2019- 3-20-  Vacating an unimproved public way near the common address of 200 South
7     19     Depot Street, Rolling Prairie, Indiana, which public way is a 20' un-
             improved alleyway between Depot Street and Maple Street
2019- 4-17-  Vacating an unimproved public way near the common address of 3444 S
11    19     800 E, Walkerton, Indiana, which public way is a platted 15'
             unimproved alleyway between North Lilac Lane and S 800 E
             Vacating an unimproved public way adjacent to the common address of
2019- 6-5-19 7187 North Point Road, New Carlisle, Indiana, which public way is a
12           platted but unimproved 10' alleyway along the northern side of 7187
             North Point Road
2019- 8-7-19 Vacating a portion of a Beach Drive
14
2019- 10-16- Vacating an unimproved public way behind the common address of 103
16    19     North Oak Street, 7 West Beech Street, and 9 West Beech Street,
             Westerville, Indiana, which is a platted 16' unimproved alleyway
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1988 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite              Code Section
1-1-1-5                10.04
1-1-1-7                10.12
1-1-1-8                10.06
1-1-4-5                10.05
1-1-5-1                10.11
1-1-6-1                10.08
3-5-2-40.1             34.93
3-11-8                 30.46
3-11-15                30.46
4-13-6                 151.08
4-13-18-5              34.105
4-13-18-6              34.105
4-13.4                 34.105
4-21.5                 51.19,
                       51.42
4-21.5 et seq.         51.19
4-22-2                 36.25
4-28-1 et seq.         150.05
5-1-4-1                32.115
5-2-6                  32.048
5-2-10.1               32.048
5-2-10.1-0.3           32.048
5-2-10.1-1             32.048
5-2-10.1-1.5           32.048
5-2-10.1-1.7           32.048
5-2-10.1-7             32.048
5-2-10.1-8             32.048
5-2-10.1-10            32.048
5-2-10.1-10(f)         32.048
5-2-10.1-10(g)      32.048
5-3-1                  153.024
5-3-1 et seq.          33.17,
                       150.42
5-4-1-18 et seq.       31.05
5-11-1-27(j)           36.07
5-13-9-6(c)            36.18
                       39.17,
5-14-1.5               150.38,
                       150.63,
                       150.69
5-14-1.5-2             39.17
5-14-1.5-5(d)          39.36,
                       39.37
                       34.111,
5-14-3                 39.17,
                       150.40,
                       150.65
5-20-5-15.1(a)         36.25
5-20-5-15.5            36.25
5-20-5-18              36.25
5-20-5-19              36.25
5-22                   34.94
5-30                   151.08
6-1.1-12.1             34.18
6-1.1-20.9 et seq.     36.39
6-2.1-3-20—6-2.1-3-2237.35,
                       110.04
6-3-3-10               34.18
6-3.1-7                34.18
6-3.1-10               34.18
6-3.1-13               34.18
6-3.5-7-12(c)          36.36
6-9-6-6                36.37
6-9-6-6(b)             36.37
8-2.1-17-14            130.18
8-17-3-1               Ch. 32
8-23-10                34.105
8-23-1-23              130.18
9-13-2-1               95.02
9-13-2-96              150.05
9-20-1-3               Ch 74, Sched. II
9-20-7 et seq.         Ch. 70, 
                       Ch. 71
9-20-12-1              150.05
9-21-1 et seq.         93.50,
                       93.51
9-21-1-3               Ch. 74, Sched. VI
9-21-4-11              Ch. 74, Sched. V
9-21-4-13              Ch. 74, Sched. VII
9-21-4-19              Ch. 74, Sched. V
9-21-5-2               71.05
9-21-5-6               71.05;
                       Ch. 74, Sched. III
9-21-8-33              Ch. 74, Sched. IV
9-22-1                 95.06
9-22-1 et seq.         95.06
9-22-1-13              95.06
9-25-4-5               73.05
9-29-4-1               36.22
9-29-4-2 et seq.      36.22
10-4-1                 39.18,
                       39.42
10-4-1-7               39.35,
                       39.36
10-4-1-9               39.19
10-4-1-10              39.02,
                       39.05
10-4-1-10(d)           39.15
10-4-1-10(f)           39.18
10-4-1-10(j)           39.20
10-4-1-10J             39.02
10-4-1-17              39.39
10-4-1-15              39.05,
                       39.39
10-4-1-20(a)           39.19
10-4-1-20(b)           39.19
10-4-1-23(a)           39.02,
                       39.35
10-4-1-25              39.39,
                       39.43
10-4-2-3(a)            39.36
10-8-2-1               39.02
10-21-1                32.048
10-21-1-2 (a), (b)     32.048
11-8-8-21              37.100
11-12-1-1              32.068
11-12-2-2(b)           32.068
11-12-2-2(d)           32.068
11-12-5-1 et seq.      34.03
11-12-5-5              Ch. 37
11-12-6                36.16
12-13-15               32.125
12-13-15 et seq.       32.125
13-13-1-1 et seq.      37.83
13-21-3 et seq.        32.072
13-21-3-1              50.20
13-21-3-1—13-21-3-22 150.05
13-21-3-5              50.21,
                       50.22
13-21-3-12             50.27
13-21-5 et seq.        50.27
13-21-13 et seq.       50.27
13-23-3 et seq.        151.90—
                       151.93
14-26-4-1—14-26-4-12 150.05
14-28-1                155.44
14-28-1-26             155.44
14-28-4                155.01
15-3-4.6-1 et seq.     32.065
15-5-9                 37.17
15-17-6-1 - 15-17-6-14 94.16
16-19-3                98.04
16-20 et seq.          37.31
                       51.20,
16-20-1-25             51.43 ,
                       53.11,
                       54.07
16-20-5-8              37.36
16-20-8-1 et seq.      110.45
16-21-2 et seq.        34.81
16-22-8-2              32.125
16-41-27 et seq.       150.05
20-12-5 et seq.        150.05
20-26-18.2-2(c)        32.048
20-43-4-2              32.048
22-9-1-4 et seq.       91.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.       91.01
22-9.5-2-2             91.02
22-9.5-2-3             91.02
22-9.5-2-4             91.02
22-9.5-2-8             91.02
22-9.5-2-9             91.02
22-9.5-2-10            91.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)         91.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)         91.02
22-9.5-2-11            91.02
22-9.5-2-13            91.02
                       91.01,
22-9.5-3 et seq.       91.03,
                       91.09
22-9.5-4-8             91.10
22-9.5-5               91.02,
                       91.03
22-9.5-5 et seq.       91.02
22-9.5-5-1             91.03
22-9.5-6               91.02,
                       91.10
22-9.5-6 et seq.       91.10
22-12-2—22-12-5      150.05
25-3                   151.08
25-31                  151.08
                       53.01,
25-39 et seq.          53.04,
                       53.12
31-5-2                 34.82
33-9-15-1 et seq.      32.073
33-10.5-8-2            31.02
33-14-1-2 et seq.      31.02
33-19-7-1(d)           36.20
34-24-1-1              36.19
34-24-1-5              36.19
34-28-5 et seq.        99.02
34-28-5-1 et seq.      150.20
34-28-5-4              99.99
35-31.5-2-185          112.02
35-41-1-8              130.16
35-43-5-5              37.15
35-44-1-3              34.94
36-1-3-1—36-1-3-9    35.03
36-1-3-8               Ch. 37,
                       150.21
36-1-3-8(a)(10)        10.99,
                       150.20
36-1-3-8(10)           31.08
36-1-3.5-9             Ch. 32
36-1-4-4               11.01
36-1-6-1 et seq.       150.20
36-1-6-4               99.99
36-1-6-9               31.08
36-1-6-9(e)            31.08
36-1-6-9(f)            31.08
36-1-8-9               36.23
36-1-10                50.27
36-1-12                34.94
36-1-20.2              38.01
36-1-21                34.94 ,
                       38.01
36-2-2                 39.02
36-2-2-2               Ch. 30
36-2-2-4               Ch. 30
                       30.02 ,
36-2-2-6               39.36,
                       39.37
36-2-2-8               30.02
36-2-2-8(b)            39.37
36-2-2-11              31.01
36-2-2-23              Ch. 37
36-2-3-2               Ch. 30
36-2-3-3               30.15
36-2-3-6               31.01
36-2-4-3               39.02
36-2-4-11              11.01
36-2-5-2               36.19
36-2-5-3(a)            39.19
36-2-7-3               31.06
36-2-7-4               31.06
36-2-7-5               31.06
36-2-9-1 et seq.       31.02
36-2-9-1—36-2-9-18   31.01
36-2-9-18              Ch. 37
36-2-10-1 et seq.      31.02
36-2-12-1 et seq.      31.02
36-2-14-1 et seq.      31.02
36-2-14-22.3           34.92
36-2-15-1 et seq.      31.02
36-2-16-1 et seq.      31.03
36-2-17-4              32.003
36-2-112-1 et seq.     31.02
36-5-2-2               10.15
36-7-4                 150.05,
                       155.01
36-7-4 et seq.         150.42,
                       150.71
36-7-4-100 et seq.     32.063
36-7-4-202             150.35,
                       150.37
36-7-4-218(f)          150.37
36-7-4-400 et seq.     150.36
36-7-4-401             150.35
36-7-4-609             150.44
36-7-4-702             150.05,
                       153.007
36-7-4-703             153.020
36-7-4-705             153.020,
                       153.024
36-7-4-706             153.024
36-7-4-707(a)          153.020,
                       153.026
36-7-4-710(a)          153.020,
                       153.027
36-7-4-710(d)          153.006
36-7-4-900             150.69
36-7-4-901             150.60
36-7-4-902             150.62
36-7-4-906(f)          150.62
36-7-4-920(b)          150.69
36-7-4-921(b)          150.70
36-7-4-1012            150.20
36-7-4-1013(a)         150.15,
                       150.20
36-7-4-1014(a)         150.15,
                       150.20
36-7-4-1015            150.20
36-7-4-1018            150.20
36-7-9-1—36-7-9-28   151.75
36-7-9-2               151.76
36-7-9-4               151.77
36-7-9-5               Ch. 151, Appendix
36-7-9-14              36.15,
                       151.78
36-7-9-27              151.79
36-7-12-1 et seq.      32.049,
                       32.085
36-7-14                32.007 ,
                       34.18
36-7-14-3              32.007
36-8-2-4               Ch. 37
36-8-2-10              Ch. 37
36-8-3-20              Ch. 32
36-8-10-1 et seq.      Ch. 32
36-8-10-3              32.064
36-8-10-5              34.92
36-8-16-1 et seq.      37.60
36-8-16-1—36-8-16-9  37.63
36-8-16-6(b)(1)        37.60
36-8-16-9              37.60
36-9-25-11             50.05
36-9-27 et seq.       153.040,
                       153.132
36-9-27-1 et seq.      32.061
36-9-30                50.27
36-9-30-1 et seq.      37.83
36-10-2-3              35.03
36-10-3                33.01
36-10-3-4              33.15
36-10-3-9              33.18
36-10-3-22             33.17,
                       Ch. 36
                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1988 CODE
1988 Code Section 2003 Code Section
1988 Code Section     2003 Code Section
1-10                  11.01
2-1                   30.01
2-2                   30.02
2-3                   30.03
2-4                   30.04
2-8                   30.15
2-9                   30.16
2-10                  30.17
2-13                  31.01
2-14                  31.02
2-15                  31.03
2-16                  31.05
2-17                  31.06
2-18                  31.07
2-122                 32.020
2-123                 31.04
2-124                 32.045
2-125                 32.035
2-126                 32.060
2-127                 32.085
2-128                 32.061,
                      Ch. 32 Appendix
2-129                 32.105
2-130                 32.021
2-131                 32.001
2-132                 32.002
2-133                 32.003
2-134                 32.062
2-135                 32.063
2-136                 32.004
2-137                 32.005
2-139                 32.006
2-140                 32.095
2-141                 32.064
2-142                 34.03
2-143                 32.065
2-144                 32.066
2-145                 32.067
2-147                 32.046
2-148                 32.068
2-148.1               32.069
2-149                 32.070
2-149.1               32.071
2-150                 32.072
2-151                 32.073
2-152                 34.15
2-153                 34.16
2-154                 34.17
2-161                 32.115
2-162                 36.15
2-163                 36.16
2-164                 36.17
2-165                 36.01
2-166                 36.18
2-167                 36.02
2-168                 36.19
2-169                 36.03
2-169.1               36.04
2-170                 36.35
2-170.1               36.05
2-171                 34.60
2-172                 34.61
2-173                 34.62
2-174                 34.62
2-175                 34.63
2-176                 34.64
2-177                 34.65
2-178                 34.66
2-179                 34.67
2-180                 34.68
2-181                 34.69
2-182                 34.70
2-190                 30.30
2-191                 30.31
2-192                 30.32
2-193                 30.33
3-1                   37.01
3-2                   37.02
3-5                   37.30
3-6                   37.31
3-7                   37.32—
                      37.34
3-8                   37.36
3-9                   37.35
3-51                  37.75
3-52                  37.76
3-53                  37.77
3-54                  37.78
3-56                  37.80
3-57                  37.81
3-58                  37.82
3-59                  37.83
3-73                  34.45—
                      34.47
3-77                  37.19
3-78                  37.60
3-79                  37.60,
                      37.63
3-80                  37.62
3-90                  37.15
3-91                  37.16
3-92                  37.84
3-93                  37.17
3-95                  37.95
3-96                  37.96
3-97                  37.95
3-98                  37.97
3-101                 37.61
3-125                 36.37
3-126                 36.37
4-24                  93.01
4-25                  93.02
4-26                  93.03
4-28                  93.15
4-29                  93.16
4-30                  93.17
4-32                  93.30
4-33                  93.31
4-34                  93.32
4-35                  93.33
4-36                  93.34
4-37                  93.35
4-38                  93.36
4-39                  93.37
4-42                  93.50
4-43                  93.51,
                      93.52
4-44                  93.53
4-45                  93.54
4-47                  93.65
4-48                  93.66
4-49                  93.67
4-50                  93.68
4-51                  93.69
4-52                  93.70
4-54                  93.04
4-58                  93.80
4-80                  32.047
5-1                   151.40
5-2                   151.41
6-1                   35.01
6-2                   35.02
6-3                   35.03
6-17                  73.01
6-18                  73.02
6-19                  73.03,
                      73.04
6-20                  73.04
6-21                  73.05
6-25                  50.01
6-26                  50.02
6-27                  50.03
6-28                  50.04
6-29                  50.05
6-30                  50.06
6-86                  130.01
6-87                  130.02
6-105                 35.15
6-106                 35.15
6-107                 35.15
6-115                 151.91
6-116                 151.92
6-117                 151.93
6-118                 151.94
6-125                 50.20
6-127                 50.21
6-128                 50.22
6-129                 50.23
6-130                 50.24
6-131                 50.25
6-132                 50.26
6-133                 50.27
6-135                 51.01
6-136                 51.01
6-150                 35.16
6-151                 35.17
6-152                 35.18
6-153                 35.19
6-154                 35.20
6-165                 130.15
6-166                 130.16
6-167                 130.17
6-169                 130.18
6-175                 92.01
6-176                 92.02
6-177                 92.16
6-178                 92.17
6-179                 92.18
6-180                 92.20
6-181                 92.22
6-182                 92.23
6-183                 92.24
6-184                 92.25
6-185                 92.26
6-186                 92.27
6-187                 92.28
6-188                 92.29
6-189                 92.30
6-190                 92.31
6-191                 92.32
6-192                 92.33
6-193                 92.45
6-194                 92.46—
                      92.48
6-195                 92.47
6-196                 92.49
7-1                   Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-2                   Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-3                   Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-4                   Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-5                   Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-6                   Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-7                   Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-7-5                 Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-8                   Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-9                   Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-10                  71.05
7-13                  Ch. 74, Sched. I
7-14                  Ch. 74, Sched. V
7-14B                 Ch. 74, Sched. V
7-15                  Ch. 74, Sched. VII
7-17                  Ch. 74, Sched. VII
7-18                  Ch. 74, Sched. VII
7-20                  Ch. 74, Sched. VII
7-21                  Ch. 74, Sched. VI
7-22                  Ch. 75, Sched. I
7-23                  Ch. 74, Sched. VII
7-24                  Ch. 74, Sched. VII
7-25                  Ch. 74, Sched. VII
7-29                  70.99
7-30                  71.01;
                      Ch. 74, Sched. I
7-31                  71.03
7-32                  Ch. 74, Sched. I
7-36                  Ch. 74, Sched. II
7-40                  Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-41                  Ch. 74, Sched. III
7-42                  71.04
7-56                  71.02
7-57                  70.99
7-58                  Ch. 74, Sched. I
7-59                  71.02
                      Ch. 74, Scheds.
7-65                  III,
                      V and
                      VII
7-70                  70.15
7-71                  70.16
7-73                  70.17
8-1                   150.01
8-2                   150.03
8-3                   150.02
8-4                   150.04
                      150.05; Ch. 150, Appendices
8-5                   A and
                      B
8-6                   157.015—
                      157.027
8-6, Table 1          Ch. 157, Appendix A
8-6, Exhibit A        153.021
8-7                   157.040
8-8                   157.041
8-8, Table 2          Ch. 157, Appendix B
8-9                   157.042
8-9, Table 3          Ch. 157, Appendix C
8-10                  157.043
8-10, Table 4, part 1 Ch. 157, Appendix D
8-10, Table 4, part 2 Ch. 157, Appendix G(A)
8-11                  157.044
8-11, Table 5, part 1 Ch. 157, Appendix E
8-11, Table 5, part 2 Ch. 157, Appendix G(B)
8-12                  157.055—
                      157.060
8-12, Table 6         Ch. 157, Appendix F
8-13                  157.061
8-14                  157.062
8-15                  157.075,
                      157.076
8-16                  157.077—
                      157.080
8-17                  157.115—
                      157.118
8-18                  157.130—
                      157.135
8-19                  157.137
8-20                  157.136
8-21                  157.063
8-22                  157.090—
                      157.095
8-23                  157.138
8-35                  152.01
8-36                  152.02
8-37                  152.03
8-73                  153.001
8-74                  153.002
8-75                  153.003
8-76                  153.004,
                      153.005
8-77                  153.006
8-78                  153.020
8-79                  153.022
8-80                  153.023
8-81                  153.024
8-82                  153.025
8-83                  153.026
8-84                  153.027
8-85                  153.028
8-86                  153.040
8-87                  153.041
8-88                  153.042
8-89                  153.043
8-90                  153.044
8-91                  153.045
8-92                  153.046
8-93                  153.045;
                      Ch. 153, Appendix A
8-94                  153.047
8-95                  153.048
8-96                  153.029
8-97                  153.049
8-98                  153.060
8-99                  153.061
8-100                 153.062
8-101                 153.063
8-102                 153.064
8-103                 153.030
8-109                 153.007
8-110                 153.075—
                      153.080
8-111                 153.090—
                      153.098
8-111, Table 7        Ch. 153, Appendix B(A)
8-111, Table 8        Ch. 153, Appendix C
8-111, Table 9        Ch. 153, Appendix B(B)
8-115                 153.007
8-116                 153.110—
                      153.114
8-117                 153.125—
                      153.132
8-127                 156.01
8-128                 156.02
8-129                 156.03,
                      156.04
8-145                 154.01
8-146                 154.02
8-147                 154.15—
                      154.27
8-148                 154.40—
                      154.44
8-152                 150.15
8-153                 150.16
8-154                 150.17
8-155                 150.17
8-156                 150.18
8-157                 150.19
8-158                 150.20
8-159                 150.21
8-166                 150.40
8-167                 150.41
8-168                 150.42
8-169                 150.43
8-170                 150.44
8-171                 150.45
8-172                 150.46
8-176                 150.60,
                      150.61
8-177                 150.62
8-178                 150.63
8-179                 150.64
8-180                 150.65
8-181                 150.66
8-182                 150.67
8-183                 150.68
8-184                 150.69
8-185                 150.70
8-186                 150.71
8-190                 151.01
8-191                 151.02
8-192                 151.03
8-193                 151.04
8-194                 151.05
8-195                 151.20,
                      151.21
8-196                 151.22
                      151.23,
8-197                 157.001—
                      157.004
8-198                 151.24
8-199                 151.25
                      151.55—
8-200                 151.63,
                      151.75
8-201                 151.76
8-202                 151.77
8-203                 151.78
8-204                 151.79
8-205                 151.80,
                      Ch. 151 Appendix
8-300                 151.42
8-400                 151.43
8-600                 151.06
8-700                 151.07
                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      10-17-56    32.067
—      6-17-68     37.77
1-77     1-10-77     32.105
4-77     4-4-77      32.115
6-77     8-29-77     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2-78     6-12-78     Ch. 74, Sched. III
3-78     6-12-78     Ch. 74, Sched. III
6-78     8-7-78     Ch. 74, Sched. VII
8-78     8-14-78     Ch. 74, Sched. III
9-78     - -         Ch. 74, Sched. III
10-78    10-3-78     Ch. 74, Sched. III
1-79     5-14-79     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2-79     5-14-79     Ch. 74, Sched. III
3-79     5-21-79     Ch. 74, Sched. III
4-79     8-6-79      Ch. 74, Sched. III
5-49     8-6-79      34.16
80-1     1-21-80     34.16
80-4     6-16-80     32.085
80-6     8-25-80     Ch. 74, Sched. III
—      4-27-81     34.03
81-2     7-13-81     Ch. 74, Sched. III
81-3     7-13-81     Ch. 74, Sched. IV
82-6     6-21-82     Ch. 74, Sched. III
83-3     5-23-83     31.06
84-4     9-17-84     34.60—
                     34.68
84-6     10-29-84    34.69,
                     34.70
86-11    2-24-86     71.02
87-4     1-17-87     36.01
89-3     4-24-89     36.02
90-8     11-13-90    32.072
90-9     12-3-90     32.070
92-1     2-11-92     33.36
94-5     10-24-94    36.05
94-6     10-24-94    36.35
97-5     6-3-97      T.S.O. III
97-12    10-14-97    34.33
98-5     5-19-98     T.S.O. III
98-9     11-24-98    T.S.O. III
98-10    11-24-98    T.S.O. III
98-12    12-22-98    T.S.O. III
99-9     8-10-99     T.S.O. III
2001-01  1-9-01      34.01
2002-12  9-17-02     T.S.O. III
2003-07  9-30-03     T.S.O. II
2004-04  6-24-04     T.S.O. II
2004-05  8-1-04      T.S.O. II
2004-06  6-28-04     34.18
2004-07  10-19-04    T.S.O. II
2005-01  1-24-05     T.S.O. II
2005-02  2-1-05      35.30
2005-04  6-7-05      31.09
2005-05  7-19-05     30.46
2005-07  7-19-05     30.46
2006-01  - -         30.02
2006-04  2-21-06     31.09
2006-10  6- -06      151.08
2006-11  9-5-06      T.S.O. II
2007-05  3-15-07     34.05
2008-11  9-2-08      31.12
2009-01  1-20-09     T.S.O. II
2009-02  3-17-09     T.S.O. II
2009-04  4-21-09     31.13
2009-06  10-20-09    T.S.O. II
2012-03  6-26-12     34.90 -
                     34.94
2012-04  8-7-12      T.S.O. II
2012-06  10-9-12     T.S.O. II
2013-1   1-2-13      31.12
2014-10  10- -14     T.S.O. II
2014-14  12-17-14    30.03
2014-15  12-17-14    30.03
2018-2   2-7-18      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2019-4   4-22-19     T.S.O. II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
12-76     - -         71.04;
                      Ch. 74, Sched. III
—       11-25-57    T.S.O. I
—       12-12-66    37.82
—       3-18-68     T.S.O. I
104       4-23-73     50.01—
                      50.06
74-717    7-1-74      130.02
10-75     10-20-75    32.035
11-1-76a  11-1-76     Ch. 74, Sched. III
79-3      9-14-81     73.02—
                      73.05
82-1      2-8-82      Ch. 74, Sched. III
82-2      4-26-82     Ch. 74, Sched. III
82-8      7-26-82     34.15
82-10     11-1-82     32.095
82-11     12-6-82     32.060
83-7      7-11-83     36.15
—       4-10-84     36.17
84-5      8-6-84      Ch. 74, Sched. III
84-6      8-6-84      Ch. 74, Sched. III
85-2      4-15-85     Ch. 74, Sched. III
85-3      4-15-85     Ch. 74, Sched. III
85-10     11-12-85    37.36
85-10     1-1-86      37.30—
                      37.32
86-4      4-28-86     36.16
86-7      8-11-86     Ch. 74, Sched. III
86-10     10-6-86     37.19
86-11     11-3-86     34.17
86-14     12-22-86    T.S.O. I
87-1      4-6-87      Ch. 74, Sched. III
87-2      4-6-87      Ch. 74, Sched. III
87-3      4-16-87     36.16
33        5-26-87     32.049
87-5      6-29-87     Ch. 74, Sched. III
88-1      1-4-88      Ch. 74, Sched. III
88-3      3-28-88     Ch. 74, Sched. IV 88-43-28-88
                      Ch. 74, Sched. IV
88-5      3-28-88     Ch. 74, Sched. V
88-6      3-28-88     Ch. 74, Sched. V
88-7      3-28-88     Ch. 74, Sched. V
88-8      3-28-88     Ch. 74, Sched. V
88-13     8-22-88     Ch. 74, Sched. IV
89-1      1-23-89     Ch. 74, Sched. III
89-2      1-23-89     Ch. 74, Sched. III
89-3      3-27-89     32.061
89-1      4-17-89     37.60,
                      37.62
89-5      5-30-89     32.046;
                      Ch. 74, Sched. III
89-2      7-24-89     36.18
89-10     7-31-89     Ch. 74, Sched. III
89-11     8-21-89     Ch. 74, Sched. III
89-12     8-21-89     Ch. 74, Sched. III
89-14     10-2-89     Ch. 74, Sched. III
89-15     10-2-89     Ch. 74, Sched. III
90-1      1-8-90      37.16
90-2      1-22-90     35.15
90-7      6-25-90     37.32—
                      37.34
90-11     8-20-90     Ch. 74, Sched. III
90-13     9-24-90     32.068
90-14     11-19-90    36.03
90-1      11-26-90    37.61
                      93.01—
                      93.04,
                      93.15—
                      93.17,
                      93.30—
90-15     12-3-90     93.37,
                      93.50—
                      93.54,
                      93.65—
                      93.70,
                      93.80
91-1      1-22-91     32.071
91-2      2-11-91     36.04
91-4      3-11-91     151.91—
                      151.94
91-8      5-20-91     36.19
91-9      5-28-91     Ch. 74, Sched. III
91-10     5-28-91     Ch. 74, Sched. III
91-11     5-28-91     50.20—
                      50.27
91-13     6-3-91      Ch. 74, Sched. III
91-14     6-10-91     37.15
91-15     6-17-91     Ch. 74, Sched. III
88-13     8-12-91     Ch. 74, Sched. III
91-19     8-12-91     Ch. 74, Sched. III
91-22     12-16-91    30.17
92-1      1-21-92     Ch. 74, Sched. III
92-1      3-23-92     36.37
92-4      4-27-92     51.01
92-5      7-6-92      35.16—
                      35.20
92-6      7-27-92     Ch. 74, Sched. V
92-2      11-23-92    37.17
93-11     1-15-93     Ch. 74, Sched. III
93-1      1-25-93     Ch. 74, Sched. III
93-5      3-8-93      37.84
93-6      3-22-93     T.S.O. I
93-9      5-17-93     32.073
93-10     5-17-93     Ch. 74, Sched. III
93-12     5-17-93     Ch. 74, Sched. III
93-16     11-29-93    Ch. 74, Sched. III
94-1      1-10-94     Ch. 74, Sched. III
94-2      1-31-94     37.16
94-5      2-28-94     32.071
94-7      3-14-94     37.60,
                      37.63
94-1      3-24-94     36.35
94-9      6-20-94     70.15—
                      70.17
                      92.01,
                      92.02,
94-16     8-15-94     92.15—
                      92.31,
                      92.45—
                      92.50
94-17     8-15-94     Ch. 74, Sched. III
94-19     9-6-94      Ch. 74, Sched. III
94-20     9-19-94     Ch. 74, Sched. VI
94-21     9-26-94     37.32,
                      37.33
94-23     10-24-94    Ch. 74, Sched. III
95-5      2-14-95     37.95—
                      37.97
95-6      2-21-95     130.15—
                      130.18
                      Ch. 74, Scheds.
95-7      3-6-95      V and
                      VII
95-9      3-27-95     32.069
95-10     3-27-95     30.30—
                      30.33
95-11     5-8-95      Ch. 74, Sched. V
1995-15   8-28-95     Ch. 74, Sched. III
1995-16   8-28-95     Ch. 74, Sched. III
1995-18   9-11-95     Ch. 74, Sched. III
1995-19   9-25-95     Ch. 74, Sched. V
1996-22   12-9-95     51.15—
                      51.20
1996-1    1-22-96     34.01
1996-2    2-20-96     Ch. 74, Sched. III
1996-4    3-11-96     Ch. 74, Sched. V
1996-5    4-1-96      Ch. 74, Sched. III
1996-7    4-29-96     37.33
1996-12   7-1-96      37.50
1996-15   8-12-96     Ch. 74, Sched. V
1996-16   8-26-96     Ch. 74, Sched. V
1996-17   10-21-96    Ch. 74, Sched. III
1996-18   10-28-96    37.15
96-19     12-2-96     90.01—
                      90.04
1996-20   12-2-96     Ch. 74, Sched. III
1996-21   12-9-96     71.05;
                      Ch. 74, Sched. III
96-25     12-23-96    36.22
97-1      2-18-97     36.16
97-2      3-18-97     90.03
1997-01   3-24-97     36.35
97-4      5-6-97      Ch. 74, Sched. III
97-5      5-6-97      Ch. 74, Sched. V
97-6      5-20-97     Ch. 74, Scheds. III and V
1997-05   5-28-97     36.36
97-8      6-3-97      Ch. 74, Sched. III
97-9      7-8-97      71.01;
                      Ch. 74, Sched. I
97-10     7-8-97      Ch. 74, Sched. V
97-11     7-15-97     Ch. 74, Sched. III
97-13     7-15-97     Ch. 74, Sched. III
97-14     8-12-97     Ch. 74, Sched. V
97-18     9-2-97      Ch. 74, Sched. III
97-21     9-9-97      34.02;
                      Ch. 34 Appendix
97-22     9-9-97      36.19
97-23     9-16-97     36.20
97-24     9-23-97     Ch. 74, Sched. III
97-25     10-7-97     36.23
97-26     10-14-97    70.01
97-27     10-14-97    72.01,
                      72.02
97-29     11-25-97    Ch. 74, Sched. III
97-30     12-9-97     T.S.O. II
98-1      1-27-98     35.15
98-2      2-3-98      36.16
                      37.78,
98-6      4-21-98     37.80,
                      37.81
98-8      6-16-98     Ch. 74, Sched. II
98-9      6-16-98     37.78
98-10     6-30-98     34.30
98-11     6-30-98     34.32
98-12     7-14-98     Ch. 74, Sched. III
98-16     9-22-98     T.S.O. III
98-17     9-29-98     Ch. 74, Sched. III
98-18     10-13-98    Ch. 74, Sched. III
98-19     10-13-98    37.18
                      150.01—
                      150.05;
                      150.15—
                      150.21;
                      150.35—
                      150.46;
                      150.60—
                      150.71; Ch. 150, Appendices
                      A and
                      B;
                      151.75—
                      151.80;
                      Ch. 151 Appendix;
                      153.001—
                      153.007;
                      153.020—
                      153.030;
                      153.040—
                      153.049;
                      153.060—
                      153.064;
                      153.075—
                      153.080;
                      153.090—
                      153.098;
                      153.110—
                      153.114;
                      153.125—
                      153.132; Ch. 153, Appendices
                      A,
                      B(A),
                      B(B),
                      C and
98-20     11-10-98    D;
                      154.01,
                      154.02,
                      154.15—
                      154.27;
                      154.40—
                      154.44;
                      156.01—
                      156.04;
                      157.001—
                      157.004;
                      157.015—
                      157.027;
                      157.040—
                      157.044;
                      157.055—
                      157.063;
                      157.075—
                      157.080;
                      157.090—
                      157.095;
                      157.115—
                      157.118;
                      157.130—
                      157.133;
                      157.136—
                      157.138; Ch. 157, Appendices
                      A,
                      B,
                      C,
                      D,
                      E,
                      F,
                      G(A) and
                      G(B)
99-9      8-17-99     Ch. 74, Sched. III
99-11     10-12-99    71.05;
                      Ch. 74, Sched. III
99-12     10-12-99    Ch. 74, Sched. III
99-13     10-12-99    Ch. 74, Sched. V
99-14     10-19-99    71.01;
                      Ch. 74, Sched. II
2000-1    1-11-00     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2000-02   3-7-00      32.048
2000-4    4-4-00      Ch. 74, Sched. II
2000-7    4-18-00     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2000-8    4-18-00     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2000-9    - -00       Ch. 74, Sched. III
2000-10   5-16-00     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2000-12   5-30-00     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2000-13   6-13-00     37.34
                      157.075—
                      157.080;
                      157.092—
2000-14   6-13-00     157.095;
                      157.134;
                      157.135;
                      Ch. 157, Appendix A
                      110.01—
                      110.05,
                      110.15—
2000-15   8-8-00      110.19,
                      110.30—
                      110.32,
                      110.45—
                      110.50
2000-16   8-22-00     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2000-17   8-22-00     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2000-18   8-22-00     91.01—
                      91.10
2000-20   9-5-00      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2000-21   9-19-00     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2000-22   9-19-00     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2000-24   10-10-00    Ch. 74, Sched. V
2000-30   11-14-00    Ch. 74, Sched. III
2000-31   12-21-00    Ch. 74, Sched. III
2000-32   12-21-00    Ch. 74, Sched. V
2001-01   1-23-01     35.15
2001-2    1-30-01     151.90—
                      151.93
                      37.79,
                      151.01—
                      151.07,
                      151.20—
2001-03   2-13-01     151.27,
                      151.42—
                      151.44,
                      151.55—
                      151.63
2001-5    2-27-01     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2002-05   3-12-01     31.08
2001-08   4-24-01     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2001-09   6-5-01      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2001-12   8-28-01     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2001-14   9-11-01     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2001-15   9-11-01     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2001-16   9-11-01     36.21
2001-18   9-11-01     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2001-20   10-23-01    37.98,
                      37.99
2001-26   12-18-01    30.45
2001-27   12-18-01    30.17
2001-28   12-18-01    36.06
2002-01   1-15-02     30.17
2002-02   2-13-02     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2002-03   2-19-02     95.06
2002-04   2-26-02     71.03
2002-06   5-21-02     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2002-07   5-21-02     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2002-08   6-4-02      Ch. 74, Sched. V
2002-11   7-2-02      36.24
2002-12   7-30-02     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2002-13   7-30-02     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2002-14   7-30-02     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2002-15   8-13-02     130.15—
                      130.18
2002-16   9-3-02      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2001-23   12-4-02     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2001-24   12-4-02     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2001-25   12-18-02    30.03
2002-18   10-15-02    Ch. 74, Sched. III
2002-20   12-10-02    Ch. 74, Sched. III
2002-21   12-17-02    Ch. 74, Sched. III
2002-22   12-17-02    Ch. 74, Sched. III
2003-01   1-7-03      34.04
2003-03   3-21-03     Ch. 74, Sched. II
2003-04   4-17-03     71.06
2003-09   6-3-03      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2003-10   6-3-03      Ch. 74, Sched. V
2003-11   6-17-03     37.15
2003-12   7-15-03     151.43
2003-13   8-19-03     32.068
2003-14   9-2-03      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2003-15   9-16-03     32.035
2003-16   11-3-03     32.125
2003-17   11-3-03     37.95
2003-18   12-9-03     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2003-19   12-9-03     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2004-01   2-17-04     95.06
2004-02   3-2-04      32.074
2004-03   3-2-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-06   4-6-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-07   5-3-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-08   5-3-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-10   6-22-04     T.S.O. IV
2004-11   6-22-04     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2004-12   7-6-04      Ch. 74, Sched. V
2004-13   8-17-04     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2004-14   9-7-04      Ch. 74, Sched. V
2004-15   10-19-04    Ch. 74, Sched. V
2004-17   12-21-04    Ch. 74, Sched. V
2005-01   2-1-05      70.02
2005-02   2-15-05     37.32—
                      37.35
2005-03   3-15-05     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2005-04   3-15-05     32.007
2005-05   4-5-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-06   4-3-05      37.50
2005-07   6-8-05      94.04
2005-09   6-21-05     Ch. 74, Sched. III
                      150.05,
                      152.02,
                      153.021,
                      153.030,
                      153.031,
2005-11   9-6-05      154.17,
                      157.040,
                      157.063,
                      157.130,
                      157.134,
                      157.135,
                      157.138, Ch. 157, App. A
2005-12   10-4-05     T.S.O. IV
2005-13   - -         Ch. 74, Sched. III
2005-14   11-15-05    70.99,
                      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2005-15   11-15-05    T.S.O. IV
2005-16   11-15-05    T.S.O. IV
2006-02   2-21-06     34.80—
                      34.84
2006-4    5-9-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-5    5-9-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-07   5-23-06     T.S.O. IV
2006-08   6-6-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-10   - -         T.S.O. IV
2006-11   7-5-06      T.S.O. IV
2006-12   11-8-06     Ch. 74, Sch. III
2006-13   10-13-06    Ch. 74, Sch. III
2006-14   11-8-06     T.S.O. IV
2006-15   11-21-06    130.03
2007-01   1-23-07     32.008,
                      32.075
2007-02   2-20-07     37.20
2007-05   4-17-07     52.01 -
                      52.16
2007-06   4-17-07     52.25 -
                      52.35
2007-07   4-17-07     156.10 -
                      156.22
2007-10-B 8-7-07      96.01 -
                      96.06
2007-15   8-21-07     37.21
2007-16   9-4-07      97.01 -
                      97.06
2007-18   8-16-07     37.33,
                      37.34
2007-19   8-16-07     50.35,
                      50.36
2007-20   --          31.10
2007-22   10-16-07    T.S.O. IV
2007-23   12-4-07     T.S.O. IV
2007-24   12-4-07     157.097
2007-25   12-4-07     157.090-
                      157.096
2007-26   12-4-07     T.S.O. IV
2007-27   12-4-07     36.38
2008-01   3-18-08     71.03,
                      71.99
2008-02   3-4-08      34.01
2008-03   3-18-08     36.39
2008-04   3-4-08      31.11
2008-07   6-3-08      31.11
2008-09   6-17-08     31.11
2008-10   6-17-08     T.S.O. I
11        6-17-08     T.S.O. IV
2008-14   8-5-08      37.33
                      92.01,
                      92.02,
                      92.15 -
15        8-5-08      92.33,
                      92.45 -
                      92.49,
                      92.99
2008-16   8-5-08      157.138,
                      157.139
18        9-16-08     36.25
2008-20   10-7-08     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2008-21   12-11-08    Ch. 74, Sched. III
2008-22   12-11-08    Ch. 74, Sched. I
                      153.030,
2009-01   1-20-09     153.061,
                      157.040
2009-02   2-3-09      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2009-03   3-17-09     37.100
2010-01   2-2-10      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2010-02   2-16-10     T.S.O. V
2010-03   2-16-10     T.S.O. V
2010-04   5-5-10      T.S.O. II
2010-05   6-1-10      T.S.O. V
                      98.01 -
2010-06   7-6-10      98.09,
                      98.99
                      99.01,
2010-07   10-19-10    99.02,
                      99.99
2010-08   10-19-10    36.26
2010-09   11-3-10     T.S.O. V
                      155.01 -
                      155.05,
                      155.15 -
                      155.23,
                      155.30 -
2010-10   12-7-10     155.32,
                      155.40 -
                      155.47,
                      155.55 -
                      155.61,
                      155.99
2011-01   2-14-11     T.S.O. V
2011-02   3-15-11     T.S.O. V
2011-03   3-15-11     34.01
2011-04   3-15-11     72.03
2011-06   4-19-11     72.03
                      111.01 -
2011-07   6-7-11      111.12,
                      111.99
2011-09   8-2-11      Ch. 74, Sched. V
2011-10   9-6-11      Ch. 74, Sched. V
2011-12   10-18-11    T.S.O. V
2011-13   12-20-11    30.45
2011-14   12-20-11    30.03
2011-15   12-20-11    30.17
2012-01   2-21-12     51.35 -
                      51.44
2012-04   4-3-12      T.S.O. V
2012-05   8-7-12      T.S.O. V
2012-06   7-17-12     T.S.O. V
2012-07   11-20-12    T.S.O. IV
2012-09   11-20-12    113.01 -
                      113.22
2012-10   11-20-12    T.S.O. V
2012-11   12-18-12    T.S.O. V
2013-01   1-2-13      38.01
2013-02   3-20-13     T.S.O. V
                      39.01 -
                      39.05,
2013-02A  5-15-13     39.15 -
                      39.25,
                      39.35 -
                      39.43
2013-06   8-7-13      32.048
2013-07   8-21-13     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2013-07A  8-21-13     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2013-08   8-21-13     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2013-08A  8- -13      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2013-10   10-2-13     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2013-10A  10-2-13     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2013-11   10-16-13    32.071
2013-11A  10- -13     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2013-12   10-16-13    156.16
2013-13   10-16-13    32.071
2013-14   10-16-13    156.16
2013-14A  10- -13  Ch. 74, Sched. V
                      91.02,
2014-1    2-5-14      91.11,
                      91.12
2014-03   6-4-14      Ch. 74, Sched. V
2014-04   6-18-14     113.01 -
                      113.23
2014-5    5-27-14     36.28
2014-07   12-19-14    T.S.O. V
2015-01   2-9-15      T.S.O. V
2015-1    - -15       34.06
2015-02   3-18-15     32.007
2015-03   6-3-15      34.07
2015-04   6-3-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-05A  6-17-15     94.05
                      53.01 -
2015-06   11-18-15    53.12,
                      53.99
2015-12   12-16-15    30.03
                      54.01 -
2016-02   4-6-16      54.07,
                      54.99
2016-4    6-15-16     T.S.O. IV
                      155.05,
                      155.15 -
                      155.22,
                      155.30,
                      155.31,
2016-06   9-7-16      155.32,
                      155.40 -
                      155.47,
                      155.55 -
                      155.61,
                      155.99
2016-7    9-21-16     T.S.O. IV
                      155.05,
                      155.15 -
                      155.22,
                      155.30,
                      155.31,
2016-09   11-2-16     155.32,
                      155.40 -
                      155.47,
                      155.55 -
                      155.61,
                      155.99
2016-12   12-3-16     36.07
2017-01   7-5-17      T.S.O. V
2017-2    10-18-17    31.14
2017-9    9-25-17     151.27
2018-1    2-7-18      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2018-2    8-1-18      T.S.O. V
2018-3    9-19-18     T.S.O. IV
2018-5    12-5-18     T.S.O. IV
2019-1    2-6-19      Ch. 74, Sched. III
2019-2    2-20-19     36.27
2019-3    3-20-19     34.105 -
                      34.112
2019-4    3-20-19     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2019-5    3-20-19     T.S.O. IV
2019-6    3-20-19     T.S.O. V
2019-7    3-20-19     T.S.O. V
                      94.01 -
                      94.03,
                      94.15 -
2019-8    3-20-19     94.25,
                      94.35 -
                      94.37,
                      94.99
2019-9    -  -       T.S.O. IV
2019-10   3-20-19     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2019-11   4-17-19     T.S.O. V
2019-12   6-5-19      T.S.O. V
2019-14   8-7-19      T.S.O. V
2019-15   8-21-19     T.S.O. IV
8-21-19   10-16-19    T.S.O. V
2019-17   12-11-19    73.05
                      112.01 -
2020-1    3-4-20      112.09,
                      112.99
                     
 
