LEBANON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2020-15, passed 12-14-2020; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2021 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2012-  04 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LEBANON, INDIANA, ENACTING A
CODE OF ORDINANCES, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING
CERTAIN EXISTING ORDINANCES DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Lebanon
(“city”) are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the city and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, I.C. 36-1-5 empowers and authorizes the city to revise, amend,
restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinances into code
form (“code”); and
   WHEREAS, the Common Council (“Council”) of the City of Lebanon, Indiana, has
authorized a general compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances
of the city of a general and permanent nature and publication of the code in
book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to provide for the usual daily
operation of the municipality, and for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and general welfare of the city that this ordinance take effect
as provided by law.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Lebanon,
Indiana, as follows:
   1.   The general ordinances of the City of Lebanon, Indiana (“city”), as
revised, amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby
adopted as and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Lebanon,
Indiana”.
   2.   Such Code of Ordinances (“code”) as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following titles:
      TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      TITLE III: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
      TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      TITLE XV: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE.
   3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the
code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall any such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries or streets or other public places, or
zoning, re-zoning or ordinances granting special uses of real estate; nor shall
the repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the code.
   4.   The code shall be deemed published as provided for in Indiana law and
the Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall keep and maintain two copies of the code
for public use and inspection.
   5.   The code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section 4,
and the code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts, forums and places of
the ordinances, provisions, penalties and regulations contained therein, as
provided in I.C. 36-1-5-5.
The effective date of this ordinance shall be as mandated by Indiana law.
Adopted by the Common Council of the City of Lebanon, Indiana, on   March 12  ,
2012.
                        THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LEBANON, INDIANA
                        Harold “Huck” Lewis /s/                       
                        Harold “Huck” Lewis, Mayor
                        Keith Campbell /s/                                 
                        Keith Campbell
                        ABSENT                                               
                        John Copeland
                        Mike Kincaid /s/                                   
                        Mike Kincaid
                        Lana Kruse /s/                                       
                        Lana Kruse
                        Jeremy Lamar /s/                                 
                        Jeremy Lamar
                        Steve Large /s/                                     
                        Steve Large
                        Preston Myers /s/                                   
                        Preston Myers
ATTEST:
Tonya Thayer /s/                                   
Tonya Thayer
Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Rules of construction and definitions
   
10.03   Catchlines of sections
   
10.04   Amendments to code
   
10.05   Unauthorized alterations or tampering with code
   
10.06   Ordinances; recordation and publication
   
10.07   Ordinances; effective date
   
10.08   Effect of repeal of ordinance
   
10.09   Severability
   
10.10   Offenses punishable under separate provisions
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01  HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated the “Lebanon City Code” and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
§ 10.02  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction of code.  In the construction of this code, and of all
ordinances of the city, the rules and definitions set out in this section shall
be observed, unless the construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the Common Council. The rules of construction and definitions set out
herein shall not be applied to any section of this code which shall contain any
express provisions excluding the construction, or where the subject matter or
context of the section may be repugnant thereto.
   (B)   Generally.  All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that the true
intent and meaning of the Common Council may be fully carried out.
   (C)   Interpretation and application.  In the interpretation and application
of any provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements
adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience
and general welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater
restrictions upon the subject matter than another more general provision
imposed by this code or other law, the provision imposing the greater
restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   (D)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY.  The City of Lebanon, Indiana.
      COMMON COUNCIL, COUNCIL.  The Common Council of the City of Lebanon.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which any act provided for or
required by law is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and
including the last. If the last day is Sunday, it shall be excluded and the
next day shall be included.
      CORPORATE LIMITS, CITY LIMITS.  The legal boundaries of the City of
Lebanon except as otherwise provided by law.
      COUNTY.  The County of Boone, in the State of Indiana.
      DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.  Whenever a provision appears requiring the head
of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some duty,
it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or other officer
to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act
or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section specify
otherwise.
      GENDER.  A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      JOINT AUTHORITY.  All words giving JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAYOR.  The Mayor of the city.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS.  Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in law shall be construed and understood according to the meaning.
      NUMBER.  A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing, and a
word importing the plural may extend to the singular.
      OATH.  To include any affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICERS GENERALLY.  Whenever any officer is referred to by title, such
as Clerk-Treasurer, Chief of Police and the like, the reference shall be
construed as if followed by the words “of the City of Lebanon.”
      OR, AND.  OR may be read AND and AND may be read OR if the sense requires
it.
      OWNER.  Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by
the entirety of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      PERSON.  Shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs, societies,
firms, partnerships, bodies politic and corporate or any other group acting as
a unit as well as to natural persons.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes every species of property except real
property, as herein described.
      PRECEDING, FOLLOWING.  The next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY.  Shall include real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any street, highway, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard
or open space adjacent thereto and any lake or stream.
      QUORUM.  A majority of the members of a board, commission or committee
holding office, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
      REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME, REASONABLE NOTICE.  In all cases where any provision
shall require any act to be done in a REASONABLE TIME or REASONABLE NOTICE to
be given to any person, the REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall be deemed to mean
the time only as may be necessary in the prompt execution of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
      SHALL.  Mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line, and within the public right-of-way, intended for the use of
pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The words THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Indiana.
      STREET.  Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards,
roads, alleys, viaducts and all other public highways in the city.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT.  Applied to a building or land, shall include any
person holding a written or oral lease of or who occupies the whole or a part
of the building or land, either alone or with others.
      TENSE.  Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past or present tense.
      WRITTEN or IN WRITING.  Shall be construed to include any representation
of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.03  CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of the sections, nor as any part of
the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.04  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances,
the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by omission from reprinted
pages affected thereby and the subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or
omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of subsequent
ordinances until a time as this code and subsequent ordinances numbered or
omitted are readopted as a new city code by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-4)
§ 10.05  UNAUTHORIZED ALTERATIONS OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.06  ORDINANCES; RECORDATION AND PUBLICATION.
   The ordinances and resolutions adopted by the Common Council shall be
recorded by the Clerk-Treasurer in the minute books of the Council, and a copy
kept in an ordinance file. Due proof of publication of all ordinances requiring
publication together with the affidavit of the printer or publisher shall be
obtained by the Clerk-Treasurer and attached to the original of each ordinance
adopted by the Common Council in the minute book of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)
§ 10.07  ORDINANCES; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Each ordinance adopted by the Common Council shall, if directed by the
Council, be published by the Clerk-Treasurer in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city and printed in the English language, in two
publications, each one week apart, and each ordinance shall take effect in
accordance with Indiana law, unless another date is later stated in the
ordinance in which event it shall take effect upon the date so stated.
Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect upon the date of their
adoption unless a different date is stated in the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7)
§ 10.08  EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be therein so expressly
provided.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action
arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
§ 10.09  SEVERABILITY.
   The sections, divisions, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, division or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid
judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, the
unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, divisions and sections of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-9)
§ 10.10  OFFENSES PUNISHABLE UNDER SEPARATE PROVISIONS.
   In all cases where the same offenses may be made punishable or may be
created by different clauses or sections of the ordinances of the city, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-11)
§ 10.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11:  CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Corporate boundaries
§ 11.01  CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The perimeter boundary of the city is hereby established as follows:
      Beginning at the northeast corner of Section 19, Township 19 North, Range
1 East; thence south 2,643 feet along the east line of the northeast quarter of
Section 19, Township 19 North Range 1 East to the southeast corner of said
quarter section; thence west 1,322 feet along the north line of the east half
of the southeast quarter of Section 19, Township 19 North, Range 1 East to the
northwest corner of said half-quarter section; thence south to the northwest
corner of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 30,
Township 19 North, Range l East, said corner being in the centerline of East
Fordice Street; thence east with said centerline to the centerline of John Bart
Road; thence south 250 feet along said centerline; thence east 230 feet; thence
south 110 feet; thence west 230 feet to the centerline of John Bart Road;
thence south along said centerline to a point 200.00 feet south of the
southeast corner of Section 30, Township 19 North, Range 1 East; thence
westerly to the centerline of the Mann Legal Drain; thence southwesterly along
the centerline of the Mann Legal Drain to a point 786 feet east of the west
line of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 31, Township
19 North, Range 1 East; thence west 786 feet to the west line of said quarter-
quarter section; thence north to the northwest corner of said quarter-quarter
section; thence west to a point 123 feet east of the southeastern right-of-way
line of Fordice Street; thence south 135 feet; thence east 3 feet; thence south
130 feet; thence south 43 degrees east 70 feet; thence south 64 degrees east
145 feet; thence south 54 degrees east 195 feet; thence south 48 degrees east
205 feet; thence south 34 degrees east 105 feet; thence south 14 degrees east
138 feet; thence south 1,075 feet to the centerline of East Washington Street;
thence east along said centerline to a point 814 feet west of the east line of
Section 31, Township 19 North, Range 1 East; thence south 715 feet; thence east
814 feet to said east line; thence south 1,485 feet along said east line;
thence west 1,320 feet; thence south to a point 508 feet south of the north
line of Section 6, Township 18 North, Range l East; thence west to the
centerline of Indianapolis Avenue; thence southeasterly along said centerline
to the west right-of-way line of Hall-Baker Road extended north; thence south
along said west right-of-way line to the southern right-of-way line of I-65;
thence northwesterly along said southern right-of-way line to a point 330 feet
east of the centerline of S.R. 39; thence south 75 feet; thence east 375 feet;
thence south 580 feet; thence west 955 feet to the centerline of S. R. 39;
thence southwesterly along said centerline to a point 1,099 feet south of the
north line of the southeast quarter of Section 1, Township 18 North, Range 1
West; thence west to the east right-of-way line of the Penn Central Railroad;
thence north along said east right-of-way line to the southwestern right-of-way
line of I-65; thence northwesterly along said southwestern right-of-way line to
the centerline of the abandoned Central Indiana Railroad; thence south 65
degrees west 2,121 feet along the centerline of said Railroad; thence north
2,055 feet to the south right-of-way line of S.R. 32; thence west 1,358 feet
along said south right-of-way line; thence south to the south line of the
southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 19 North, Range 1 West; thence east
along said south line to the centerline of the abandoned Central Indiana
Railroad; thence southwesterly along the centerline of said Railroad to the
west line of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 2,
Township 18 North, Range 1 West; thence north 568 feet along the west line of
said quarter-quarter section to the northwest corner of said quarter-quarter
section; thence west 330 feet along the south line of Section 35, Township 19
North, Range 1 West; thence north to the south right-of-way line of S.R. 32;
thence east along said south right-of-way line to the west line of the east
half of the east half of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 19
North, Range 1 West; thence north to the north line of said Section 35; thence
east along said north line to the east right-of-way line of I-65; thence
northerly along said east right-of-way line to the centerline of Riley Road;
thence east along said centerline to the southwest corner of the east half of
the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 26, Township 19
North, Range 1 West; thence north 498 feet; thence east 767 feet; thence south
485 feet to the northwestern right-of-way line of Riley Road; thence northerly
along said northwestern right-of-way line to the southwestern right-of-way line
of Lafayette Avenue; thence north 41 degrees west 1,050 feet along said
southwestern right-of-way line; thence south 50 degrees west 459 feet; thence
north 42 degrees west 350 feet; thence north 5 degrees west 410 feet to the
centerline of the southbound exit ramp from I-65 thence southerly 175 feet
along said centerline; thence north 50 degrees east 75 feet to the southwestern
right-of-way line of Lafayette Avenue; thence northwesterly along said
southwestern right-of-way line to the eastern right-of-way line of I-65; thence
northwesterly along said eastern right-of-way line to the north line of the
south half of Section 23, Township 19 North, Range 1 west; thence east along
said north line to the centerline of Prairie Creek; thence northerly along said
centerline to the west line of the east half of the southeast quarter of
Section 23, Township 19 North, Range l West; thence south along said west line
to the southwest corner of said half-quarter section; thence east along the
south lines of Sections 23 and 24, Township 19 North, Range 1 West to the
southwest corner of the southeast quarter of Section 24, Township 19 North,
Range 1 West; thence north 1,667 feet; thence west 1,012 feet to the centerline
of S.R. 39; thence south 10 degrees east 190 feet; thence east 446 feet; thence
north 1,175 feet to the north line of the southeast quarter of Section 24,
Township 19 North, Range 1 West, and the centerline of C.R. 250 north; thence
east along said centerline to the northwest corner of the southwest quarter of
Section 19, Township 19 North, Range 1 East; thence east 332 feet along the
north line of said quarter section; thence south 2,654 feet to the south line
of said quarter section; thence east 322 feet to the southwest corner of said
quarter section; thence south along the west line of Section 30, Township 19
North, Range 1 East to the north line of Memorial Park; thence east along said
north line to the northeast corner of Memorial Park; thence south to the
centerline of Ulen Drive; thence northeasterly along said centerline to the
centerline of Elizaville Road; thence north along said centerline to the
centerline of Elm Swamp Road; thence northerly along said centerline to the
centerline of C.R. 300 north; thence east along said centerline to the
northeast corner of Section 19, Township 19 North, Range 1 East and the point
of beginning.
   (B)   All territory within the amended boundaries not previously part of the
city are hereby annexed to and shall become a part of the City of Lebanon,
Indiana.
(Ord. 89-16, passed 12-27-1989; Ord. 90-10, passed 7-9-1990)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   COMMON COUNCIL
      
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   EXECUTIVE BRANCH
      
34.   RESERVED
      
35.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
36.   FISCAL BRANCH
      
37.   TAXATION
      
38.   CIVIL DEFENSE
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Organization of city government
   
30.02   Statutory boards and commissions
   
30.03   Smoking and municipal buildings
   
30.04   Mileage reimbursement
   
30.05   Printing and copying costs
   
30.06   Public purchasing
   
30.07   Internal control policy; materiality threshold
§ 30.01  ORGANIZATION OF CITY GOVERNMENT.
   The government of the city shall consist of five branches, those being:
   (A)   The executive branch;
   (B)   The legislative branch;
   (C)   The fiscal branch;
   (D)   The judicial branch; and
   (E)   Statutory boards and commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982)
§ 30.02  STATUTORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   The city shall have the following statutory boards and commissions:
      (1)   There shall be a Police Pension Board of Trustees, to perform
certain duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8-6 (1925 Fund) and I.C. 36-8-8 (1977
Fund) concerning the statutory pensions of city police;
      (2)   There shall be a Firefighters’ Pension Board of Trustees, to
perform certain duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8-7 (1925 Fund) and I.C. 36-8-8
(1977 Fund) concerning the statutory pension of city firefighters;
      (3)   Park and Recreation Board;
      (4)   City Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (5)   Economic Development Commission;
      (6)   There shall be a Utility Service Board as set out by I.C. 8-1.5-3;
      (7)   Redevelopment Commission; and
      (8)   Redevelopment Authority.
   (B)   The boards and commissions of the city now organized and operating
shall continue in operation with the same members and terms of office.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982)
§ 30.03  SMOKING AND MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS.
   No tobacco shall be used inside or on the city owned buildings. Tobacco may
be used while sitting in a personal vehicle parked on city property.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
§ 30.04  MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT.
   The reimbursable mileage rate for the city and its employees is hereby set
at the rate allowed by federal and state law.
(Ord. 96-14, passed 7-22-1996; Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-14-2002; Ord. 05-15,
passed 9-29-2005)
§ 30.05  PRINTING AND COPYING COSTS.
   (A)   The costs for copying prints and building plans in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer and/or in the office of the Planning Department of the city
shall be $1.50 per page.
   (B)   (1)   All offices of the city (not otherwise covered by statute or
ordinance) shall charge a uniform fee of $0.10 per page for each photographic
reproduction (per page) of black and white copies and $0.25 for color copies
(per page) for public records provided pursuant to any request made of an
office maintaining the public record being sought. These fees shall apply to
standard size documents of 8-1/2" by 11" or 8-1/2" by 14" in size. Other
documents in excess of these standard sizes shall be reproduced at their actual
cost. CDs or DVDs will be reproduced at the rate of $5 per disc.
      (2)   Those requests for copies from an office subject to this section
received through the United States mail shall be charged postage for the return
on those items requested at the prevailing rate per ounce established by the
United States Postal Service for first class postage. If the requester provides
the appropriate amount of postage in advance with the copy request, then no
postage shall be assessed upon the request for copies.
      (3)   The fees established by this section shall not apply, nor do they
supersede, the schedules set by Indiana law for copy or facsimile charges for
those city offices or records governed by state statute or court order as
outlined in I.C. 5-14-3-8(f).
      (4)   Persons requesting copies from a city office subject to this
section shall complete a written request on a form provided for such service by
the city office, which specifies with reasonable particularity the record being
requested. The completion of the written request will permit the calculation of
service fees, and postage where applicable, to be accurately determined and
invoiced for providing the service. Payment of the specified fee shall be made
to the city office prior to receipt of the copies requested. Form requests for
copies may be submitted at any time during the normal hours in which the city
office is open for the transaction of the public’s business.
      (5)   The city office from which the request for copies is made shall
have a reasonable opportunity to provide the requested information, and, shall
make a reasonable effort to do so taking into consideration the following
factors: (for example, and not limited to) available staffing, equipment, and
the volume of information requested. Compilation and copying of public
documents may not unreasonably interfere with the business of the public
agency.
      (6)   In the event any city office provides information in booklet or
pamphlet form, the booklet or pamphlet shall be provided to the public at the
actual unit price or for the printing of the booklet or pamphlet rounded to the
next even dollar.
      (7)   Only those persons duly authorized by the city may reproduce,
store, grant access, deliver, or sell any information obtained from a city
officer or department to any other person, partnership or corporation.
Information obtained from the city’s data base may not be used for the purposes
of advertising, selling or solicitation for the purchase of goods and services
or merchandise, or to sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver information
obtained by a copy request to any other person.
   (C)   The cost for purchase of the city code book shall be the rate charged
by the publisher.
   (D)   Penalty. A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of an infraction as defined by Indiana law and may be fined up to a
maximum amount of $2,500. Each violation of the provisions of this section
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 00-5, passed 3-27-2000; Ord. 2014-10, passed 6-23-2014)
§ 30.06  PUBLIC PURCHASING.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby designated as the
purchasing agency for the city, with all the powers and duties authorized under
I.C. 5-22. The purchasing agency shall designate from time to time purchasing
agents as they become necessary.
   (B)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of
less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or
bids.
   (C)   Each department of the city may purchase services in whatever manner
the purchaser deems to be reasonable so long as the procedure is in compliance
with I.C. 5-22 or any other applicable law or ordinance.
   (D)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
purchases and shall be purchased unless the city determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 30.07  INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY; MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   Internal control policy.
      (1)   The city adopts and incorporates by reference the internal control
policy attached to Ord. 2016-04 as Exhibit A. Copies of this policy are
available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer
during normal business hours.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel
receive training concerning the internal control procedures adopted and
approved herein prior to June 30, 2016.
   (B)   Materiality threshold. The city adopts a materiality threshold of $500
for purposes of the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 6-27-2016)
CHAPTER 31:  COMMON COUNCIL
Section
Legislative Branch
   
31.01   Legislative branch
   
31.02   Authority
   
31.03   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.04   Meetings
   
31.05   Presiding officer; conduct of meetings
   
31.06   Order of business
   
31.07   Councilmanic districts
   
31.08   Powers
Meetings
   
31.20   Special meetings; generally
   
31.21   Special meetings; procedure for calling
   
31.22   Special meetings; scope of business
   
31.23   Quorum
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
§ 31.01  LEGISLATIVE BRANCH.
   The legislative branch shall be under the direction of the Council and shall
be organized as follows in §§
31.02 through
31.08
(Prior Code, § 2-13)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982)
§ 31.02  AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The legislative branch of the city is the Common Council.
   (B)   The Council shall have the exclusive authority to adopt ordinances and
appropriate tax monies received by the city, and to perform other necessary and
desirable legislative functions.
(Prior Code, § 2-13)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982)
§ 31.03  CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Clerk of the Council and shall perform the
duties prescribed by I.C. 36-4-6-9.
(Prior Code, § 2-13)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982)
§ 31.04  MEETINGS.
   The regular meeting date and time for the Common Council shall normally be
on the second and fourth Monday of each month.
(Prior Code, § 2-13)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982)
§ 31.05  PRESIDING OFFICER; CONDUCT OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor, or in his or her absence the Mayor Pro Tem, shall be the
presiding officer of the Council, pursuant to I.C. 36-4-6-8.
   (B)   Meetings shall be conducted pursuant to the applicable statutes (I.C.
36-4-6-10-17) and in accordance with §
31.06.
(Prior Code, § 2-13)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982; Ord. 00-9, passed 7-24-
2000)
§ 31.06  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order of business.  The order of business to be followed at a meeting
of the Common Council shall be as follows:
      (1)   Calling to order;
      (2)   Roll call by Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   Reading of minutes and approval;
      (4)   Petitions or comment of citizens;
      (5)   Reports from committees, boards and commissions;
      (6)   Unfinished business, including ordinances or resolutions already
introduced;
      (7)   New business, including introduction of ordinances and resolutions;
      (8)   Miscellaneous business, including any matters not already
considered; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Contempt and disorder in the Council room.  No person shall use
violent or contemptuous language, behave in a disorderly manner, or refuse to
obey the orders of the Mayor or presiding officer in the Council room while the
Common Council is in session. The Mayor or presiding officer may order the
removal from the Council room of anyone who intentionally disturbs the decorum
of a Council member.
   (C)   Introduction and adoption of ordinances and resolutions.
      (1)   All ordinances shall be regularly filed with the Clerk-Treasurer at
least one day before a regular meeting.
      (2)   All ordinances shall be read two times before being passed, and no
ordinance shall pass on the same day in which it is introduced, unless the
provisions of I.C. 36-4-6-13 are complied with.
      (3)   Resolutions may be passed on one reading.
      (4)   On the passage or adoption of any ordinance or resolution, the yeas
and nays shall be taken and entered in the record, and the ordinance shall be
processed in accordance with I.C. 36-4-6-14-17.
   (D)   Question of order.  The Mayor or presiding officer shall decide all
questions of order. He or she shall decide whether any question submitted to
the Council for adoption or rejection is decided in the affirmative or
negative.
   (E)   Appeal from decision of presiding officer.  From any decision of the
presiding officer, any member may appeal to the Council. The appeal shall be by
motion duly made and seconded. A majority vote, as defined in I.C. 36-4-6-11(a)
is necessary to overrule the chair.
   (F)   Suspension of rules.  The order of business may be suspended by a two-
thirds vote of the members of the Council, as set out by the provisions of I.C.
36-4-6-11(b).
(Prior Code, § 2-13)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982)
§ 31.07  COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS.
   The Common Council shall be composed of seven members, five of whom are
elected from districts and two of whom are elected at large. Redistricting of
councilmanic districts shall be done in 1982 and, at least, every ten years
thereafter in accordance with I.C. 36-4-6-4.
(Prior Code, § 2-13)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982; Ord. 86-4, passed 5-12-
1986; Ord. 90-20, passed 10-22-1990; Ord. 92-8, passed 12-28-1992; Ord. 02-08,
passed 10-28-2002; Ord. 2012-21, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 31.08  POWERS.
   The Common Council shall have the powers conferred by the law of the state,
all powers necessarily inferable therefrom and the power to prescribe its own
rules.
(Prior Code, § 2-19)
MEETINGS
§ 31.20  SPECIAL MEETINGS; GENERALLY.
   Special meetings of the Common Council may be convened at any time other
than the time fixed for regular meetings, upon call of the Mayor, or upon call
of two or more members of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-15)
§ 31.21  SPECIAL MEETINGS; PROCEDURE FOR CALLING.
   The call for special meetings of the Common Council shall be by that mode of
communication most reasonable in the circumstances, which may be delivered to
the person entitled to receive the notice in person by the Mayor or by the
members of the Common Council calling the meeting, or by the Superintendent of
Police of the city or his or her designate. If the member entitled to receive
notice cannot be personally notified of the call of the special meeting, then
notice shall be sufficient if a written notice is left at his or her last and
usual place of residence, or if he or she has a known place of business, then
at the office at his or her place of business or by electronic message. Notice
of any special meeting shall not be necessary in any case where the member in
fact appears at the special meeting and does not raise objection thereto.
Notice, in whatever mode given, shall apprise the member of the identity of the
person calling the meeting, the time and place at which it is to be held and
generally the purpose thereof. Notice shall be given at least two days in
advance of the time of the meeting to the end that the member by reasonable
diligence can attend the place of meeting at the time set. Notice of special
meetings shall also be given to the news media.
(Prior Code, § 2-16)  (Ord. 00-9, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 31.22  SPECIAL MEETINGS; SCOPE OF BUSINESS.
   The Common Council may transact any business, whether stated in the call or
not, at any special meeting and shall not be limited by any restriction
inserted in the call, if at least two-thirds of the members are present at the
meeting. If less than two-thirds of the members of the Council are at the
special meeting, then the business to be transacted shall be limited to that
stated in the call therefor. In no case shall any business be transacted at any
special meeting not stated in the call therefor if two or more Council members
object to the transaction of the business.
(Prior Code, § 2-17)
§ 31.23  QUORUM.
   A majority of all members-elect of the Common Council shall constitute a
quorum. Unless a vote of two-thirds of the members are required, it shall
require a majority vote of all the members-elect to ordain an ordinance or
adopt a resolution. If a quorum of the members of the Council is not available
at any meeting, then the members present shall not transact any business other
than to adjourn, either sine die or to a stated date.
(Prior Code, § 2-18)
CHAPTER 32:  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Social Security for officers and employees
   
32.02   Blanket bonds
   
32.03   Self-insurance of employee welfare plan
   
32.04   Educational assistance program
   
32.05   Deferred compensation plan
   
32.06   Nepotism
   
32.07   Drug free workplace
   
32.08   Conflict of interest in contracting with city
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.20   Office created; separate offices combined
   
32.21   Election; term
   
32.22   Duties; bond
   
32.23   Pre-payment of certain expenses
   
32.24   Executive Assistant; Administrative Assistant
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  SOCIAL SECURITY FOR OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The city hereby elects coverage under the old-age and survivors
insurance, as provided by Chapter 313, Acts of 1951, being I.C. 5-10.1-4-
1 through 5-10.1-4-6.
   (B)   The following positions are hereby designated as those which are to be
covered: all positions not covered by an existing retirement plan.
   (C)   For the purpose of carrying out the provision of Title II, § 218 of
the Federal Social Security Acts, being 42 U.S.C. § 418, and amendments
thereof, the agreement entered into between the state agency with the approval
of the Governor and the Social Security Administrator is made a part of this
resolution and shall be termed as an agreement between this city and the state
agency and shall become a part of the agreement or modification of the
agreement between the state and the Social Security Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 2-33)  (Ord. passed 1-3-1952)
§ 32.02  BLANKET BONDS.
   The city is authorized to purchase a blanket bond on all city employees,
elected and appointed officials as authorized by I.C. 5-4-1-18(b) in the amount
required by Indiana law or the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-23-2012)
§ 32.03  SELF-INSURANCE OF EMPLOYEE WELFARE PLAN.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to self-insure its employee welfare
plan.
   (B)   The city shall become administrator of the self-insured employee
benefit plan and the office of the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated to
perform the duties of the Administrator.
   (C)   The city is hereby authorized to retain a plan supervisor as
designated by the Common Council from time to time.
   (D)   Payments into the plan shall be deposited in a non-reverting trust
fund with a financial institution as trustee.
   (E)   Payment by the employees shall be made to the Administrator by payroll
deductions. The payments shall not entitle employees to any vested interest in
the plan.
   (F)   The city shall not be held liable for any mistakes in the supervision
of the plan made by the plan supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 2-36)  (Ord. 83-9, passed 4-12-1983; Ord. 00-9, passed 7-24-
2000)
§ 32.04  EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The city adopts an educational assistance program to be known as the
“City of Lebanon Educational Assistance Program.” The Clerk-Treasurer is
directed to incorporate this program as a part of the city employment policies
and practices from and after the effective date of this section.
   (B)   The purpose of this program is to encourage and assist the continuing
development of regular employees through a broadening of job knowledge in ways
which will be beneficial to the employee and to the city.
   (C)   The city’s policy is to fill vacancies from within whenever possible.
However, the fact that the employee has taken courses under the Educational
Assistance Program is not a guarantee of a transfer to another type of work or
promotion to a higher level position. Many factors such as job knowledge and
performance, as well as educational preparation, are considered.
   (D)   Under this plan, the employee must take courses related to his or her
present work or future assignments for which he or she may qualify. These
courses should be taken at recognized educational institutions. Correspondence
courses will be approved when regular classroom courses are not available or
feasible.
   (E)   Required or elective courses, not directly job related, may be
approved for those employees pursuing a college degree. However no blanket
approval will be given as the courses must be reviewed by a supervisor and the
Common Council or its authorized designee. Participants must successfully pass
all courses and maintain a grade equivalent of “C.”
   (F)   The city will pay 75% of the costs of registration, tuition and
laboratory fees involved for any approved course of study. For employees who
obtain college degrees (for this purpose, COLLEGE DEGREE is defined as
associate, bachelor and advanced degrees), the city will pay an additional 25%
of the costs of all covered courses leading to the degree if employment is
continued with the city for at least three years after receiving the degree.
This payment will be made upon written request of the employee at any time
after the completion of the three-year period.
   (G)   All regular employees are eligible for educational assistance.
Employees who are eligible for veteran’s assistance or who are recipients of an
educational grant may also apply for educational assistance after becoming a
regular employee.
   (H)   An employee may obtain the application form from his or her
supervisor. The form is to be completed and submitted to the supervisor for
approval. The courses for which assistance is requested will be reviewed by the
supervisor and the designee of the Common Council. If the application is
approved, a check made payable to the employee will be issued.
   (I)   Employees must reimburse the city for its portion of payments made to
the employee for all courses the employee fails to complete, except where the
failure to complete are for reasons beyond the control of the employee.
   (J)   Employees who participate in the educational assistance program and
voluntarily leave the city’s employ must repay the city’s portion of payment
made to the employee during the 12-month period immediately preceding
termination.
   (K)   Employees are requested to send a copy of official school records to
the City Clerk-Treasurer. A record of courses completed and grades will be
maintained at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 97-12, passed - -1997)
§ 32.05  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   There is hereby established the city deferred compensation plan for
the voluntary participation of all eligible employees and elected officials.
   (B)   The city will utilize the state’s plan document and its investment
options. The city will contract with Indiana Deferred Compensation Plan, Inc.
to be the exclusive servicing manager and enroller.
   (C)   The city shall appoint an Administrator of the plan, and authorizes
him or her to make deductions from the pay of employees, who voluntarily
participate, and to make other arrangements as are necessary to implement the
plan. It is understood that, other than the incidental expenses of collecting
the employees’ deferrals and other minor administrative matters, there is to be
no cost or contribution by the city to this plan.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 11-14-1988)
§ 32.06  NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION.  An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the City Council or Mayor to make decisions regarding
salary ordinances, budgets or personnel policies of the city.
      EMPLOYED.  An individual who is employed by the city on a full-time,
part-time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not include
an individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the city. The performance of the
duties of a precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that are
imposed by I.C. 3 is not considered employment by the city.
      RELATIVE.
         (1)   Any of the following:
            (a)   Spouse;
            (b)   Parent or step parent;
            (c)   A child or step child;
            (d)   Brother, sister, step brother or step sister;
            (e)   A niece or nephew;
            (f)   An aunt or uncle; or
            (g)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (2)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms BROTHER and SISTER shall include a brother or
sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Nepotism prohibited.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives shall not be employed by the city in
a position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
      (2)   An individual shall not be promoted to a position if the new
position would cause their relative to be in the direct line of supervision of
that individual.
      (3)   Individuals who are employed by the city on the date the
individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected office in the city
and the individual is in the direct line of supervision of the newly elected
official are prohibited from remaining in that position.
   (C)   Exceptions to prohibitions against nepotism.
      (1)   This section does not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the city that an individual is a party to and is in effect on the date the
individual’s relative begins service a term of an elected office of the city.
      (2)   This section does not apply to individuals who are employed by the
city on the date the individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected
office in the city and the individual is in the direct line of supervision of
the newly elected official.
   (D)   Impact of resolution of those individuals employed by city on July 1,
2012. An individual who is employed by the city on July 1, 2012, is not subject
to this section unless the individual has a break in employment with the city.
The following are not considered a break in employment with the city:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation.
      (2)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated following
by immediate re-employment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the city. Each elected officer of
the city shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this resolution. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer not later than
December 31 of each year.
(Res. 2012-05, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 32.07  DRUG FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Overview. The city makes a commitment to provide employees a safe
working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards, and to maintain public
confidence in the city and its employees. Since the city values each employee,
the city offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse
problems.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The city requires all employees to report for work in a condition
that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with
prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the city at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the city.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C.
8120) and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. 1308.11-1308.15) and
prescription controlled substances which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on city premises (including vehicles
used for city business). These include but are not limited to marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on city premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off city premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for city business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on city
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for city business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the city under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off city premises when conducting city
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the city within five business
days after the conviction. The city will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the city will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee's actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the city's reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual's responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the city will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other city policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a city investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e. whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The city will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse.
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
city.
         (c)   When required by law.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
city. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the city. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding re-application opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2012-18, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 32.08  CONFLICT OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTING WITH CITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL.
         (a)   The executive or a member of the executive body of the city;
         (b)   A member of the legislative body of the city; or
         (c)   A member of the fiscal body of the city.
      RELATIVE.
         (a)   1.   Spouse;
            2.   Parent or step parent;
            3.   A child or step child;
            4.   Brother, sister, step brother or step sister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
         (b)   An adopted child of an individual is treated as a natural child
of the individual. The terms “brother” and “sister” shall include a brother or
sister by half-blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Contract disclosure requirements.
      (1)   The city may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with:
         (a)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official; or
         (b)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a
relative of an elected official;
only if the requirements of this division (B) are satisfied and the elected
official does not violate I.C. 35-44.1-1-4.
      (2)   A unit may enter into a contract or renew a contract with an
individual or business entity described in division (B)(1) above if:
         (a)   The elected official files with the unit a full disclosure,
which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the unit;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the legislative body of the unit and be
accepted by the legislative body in a public meeting of the unit prior to final
action on the contract or purchase; and
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
               A.   The State Board of Accounts; and
               B.   The clerk of the circuit court in the county where the unit
takes final action on the contract or purchase;
         (b)   The appropriate agency of the unit:
            1.   Make a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or
            2.   Makes a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected; and
         (c)   The unit satisfies any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12.
      (3)   An elected official shall also comply with the disclosure
provisions of I.C. 35-44.1-1-4, if applicable.
      (4)   This division (B) does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the unit
begins.
   (C)   Certification by elected officers of the city. Each elected officer of
the city shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this resolution. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer not later than
December 31 of each year.
(Res. 2014-22, passed 11-12-2014)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.20  OFFICE CREATED; SEPARATE OFFICES COMBINED.
   There is hereby created in the city the office of Clerk-Treasurer of the
city, and the separate offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer are hereby
combined into the office of Clerk-Treasurer. The separate offices of City Clerk
and City Treasurer are hereby abolished.
(Prior Code, § 2-40)  (Ord. passed 12-12-1932)
§ 32.21  ELECTION; TERM.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected at the regular city election held in
the city every four years for the election of other city officers and shall
hold office for a term of four years or until his or her successor is elected
and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2-41)  (Ord. passed 12-12-1932; Ord. passed 12-11-1933)
§ 32.22  DUTIES; BOND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall perform all duties required by law to be
performed separately by the City Clerk and City Treasurer in the city and shall
be subject to all liabilities to which either the City Clerk or City Treasurer
in the city is subject and shall give bond, as provided by law.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be as determined by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-42)  (Ord. passed 12-12-1932; Ord. passed 12-22-1947; Ord. 00-
9, passed 7-24-2000)
§ 32.23  PRE-PAYMENT OF CERTAIN EXPENSES.
   (A)   In the interests of the efficient operation of the fiscal affairs of
the city, the Clerk-Treasurer shall be permitted to make claim payments in
advance of claim approval for the following expenses only:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance of service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Credit card payments;
      (13)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (14)   Expenses that are presented after the last meeting in December;
      (15)   Expenses described in an ordinance; and
      (16)   Claims submitted for payment from the Donation Fund for the
firefighter’s training tower.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to pre-pay the expenses as
stated above subject to the submission of a fully itemized claim to the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office prior to the pre-payment and the submission of the claim for
review and allowance at the next regular or special meeting of the Common
Council following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 05-08, passed 5-23-2005; Ord. 06-06, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 32.24  EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT; ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT.
   (A)   There is established within the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer a
position to be titled Executive Assistant.
   (B)   There is retained in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer the
existing position of Administrative Assistant.
   (C)   The salary of the Executive Assistant shall be as set by Council from
time to time.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 6-12-2000)
CHAPTER 33:  EXECUTIVE BRANCH
Section
Organization
   
33.01   Organization; generally
   
33.02   Mayor
   
33.03   Department of Law
   
33.04   Officials
Board of Public Works and Safety
   
33.15   Generally
   
33.16   Duties
   
33.17   Meetings
   
33.18   Membership
Department of Stormwater Management
   
33.30   Adopted
   
33.31   Purpose; administration
   
33.32   Special taxing districts
   
33.33   Reserved
   
33.34   Assessments of user fees; issuance and sale of bonds
Redevelopment Authority
   
33.45   Creation
   
33.46   Established
   
33.47   Organization
Department of Redevelopment
   
33.60   Purpose
   
33.61   Establishment
   
33.62   Redevelopment district
Department of Public Parks
   
33.70   Establishment
   
33.71   Serving members
   
33.72   Oath of office
   
33.73   Vacancy
   
33.74   General park fund
   
33.75   Administration of funds
   
33.76   Taxation
Cross-reference:
   Parks and recreation, see
Ch. 100
ORGANIZATION
§ 33.01  ORGANIZATION; GENERALLY.
   The executive branch, under the direction of the Mayor, shall be organized
as follows in §§
33.02 through
33.04 and
33.15.
(Prior Code, § 2-55)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982; Ord. 84-2, passed 2-27-
1984)
§ 33.02  MAYOR.
   The Mayor is the city executive and head of the executive branch. He or she
shall faithfully perform the duties and responsibilities contained in I.C. 36-
4-5 and other statues of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-55)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982; Ord. 84-2, passed 2-27-
1984)
§ 33.03  DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   There is hereby established a Department of Law pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-12.
The City Attorney shall be head of the Department of Law pursuant to I.C. 36-4-
9-11.
(Prior Code, § 2-55)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982; Ord. 84-2, passed 2-27-
1984)
§ 33.04  OFFICIALS.
   Subject to the appropriation power of the Common Council, departments shall
have the ability to hire employees, and purchase or contract for materials or
services, as the Board of Public Works and Safety or other governing board or
commission deems necessary to perform its public functions.
(Prior Code, § 2-55)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982; Ord. 84-2, passed 2-27-
1984)
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY
§ 33.15  GENERALLY.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Board of Public Works and Safety within
the executive branch. The Board shall be the chief administrative body of the
city and shall have control of the day-to-day operations of the following
executive departments, which are hereby established:
      (1)   Police Department; and
      (2)   Fire Department.
   (B)   The members of the Board of Public Works and Safety are the Mayor and
two voters of the city, who shall be chosen by the Mayor and serve at his or
her pleasure. The Chiefs of the Police and Fire Departments are the heads of
his or her respective Departments.
(Prior Code, § 2-55)  ((Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982); Ord. 84-2, passed 2-27-
1984)
§ 33.16  DUTIES.
   The duties of the Board of Public Works and Safety shall be those duties as
are provided for by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-56)  (Ord. passed 10-23-1939)
§ 33.17  MEETINGS.
   The meetings of the Board of Public Works and Safety shall normally be on
the second and fourth Monday of each month and on any other special time as
shall be designated by the Mayor of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-57)  (Ord. passed 10-23-1939)
§ 33.18  MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall consist of five members. Pursuant
to I.C. 36-4-9-8, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall be the Mayor and
four persons appointed by the Mayor. Each member shall serve at the pleasure of
the Mayor.
(Ord. 2017-18, passed 12-11-2017)
DEPARTMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 33.30  ADOPTED.
   Chapter 5 of Article 1.5 of Title 8 of the Indiana Code (I.C. 8-1.5-5-1 et
seq.) addressing the matter of stormwater management within the city is hereby
adopted by the Common Council, and by so doing makes that particular chapter of
state law and any and all amendments thereto effective and operative as to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 2-111)  (Ord. 90-8, passed 6-11-1990; Ord. 2017-18, passed 12-
11-2017)
§ 33.31  PURPOSE; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Lebanon, Indiana
shall serve as the board of directors and the governing body of the Stormwater
Department and District in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-5-1 et seq.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5(g)(2) and I.C. 8-1.5-3-3(a), the Board of
Public Works and Safety is hereby directed to control the city's stormwater
facilities and shall have all of the powers and responsibilities set forth in
I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(a) and I.C. 8-1.5-5-6, and as otherwise provided by law or in
equity.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety, with assistance from the City
Engineer on behalf of the Stormwater Department, shall annually prepare and
submit a budget to the Common Council for its approval, recommend to the Common
Council reasonable and just rates and charges for services to utility patrons,
and take such other actions as are required or permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-112)  (Ord. 90-8, passed 6-11-1990; Ord. 2017-18, passed 12-
11-2017)
§ 33.32  SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICTS.
   The territory initially included in the special taxing district established
by this section shall be and is all of the territory now and hereafter included
within the corporate limits of the city, as established by its boundary
ordinance, and any areas annexed thereto at a future date.
(Prior Code, § 2-113)  (Ord. 90-8, passed 6-11-1990)
§ 33.33  RESERVED
§ 33.34  ASSESSMENTS OF USER FEES; ISSUANCE AND SALE OF BONDS.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety, after approval by the Common Council,
in appropriate ordinance form, may:
   (A)   Assess and collect user fees from all of the property of the
stormwater district for the operation and maintenance of the stormwater system;
   (B)   Issue and sell bonds of the district in the name of the municipality
for the acquisition, construction, alteration, addition or extension of the
stormwater collection and disposal system or for the refunding of any bonds
issued by the Board; and
   (C)   User fees shall include but not be limited to bonds, service rates,
revenue bonds or any other available funds.
(Prior Code, § 2-115)  (Ord. 90-8, passed 6-11-1990; Ord. 2017-18, passed 12-
11-2017)
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 33.45  CREATION.
   There is hereby created as a separate body corporate and politic and as an
instrumentality of the City Redevelopment Authority for the purposes and to
exercise the powers set forth in I.C. 36-7-14.5.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 33.46  ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City Redevelopment Authority shall be governed by a Board of
Directors (the “Board”) consisting of three members, each of whom shall be a
resident of the city appointed by the Mayor of the city. Each member is
entitled to serve a three-year term and may be reappointed to subsequent terms.
If a vacancy occurs on the Board, the Mayor of the city shall fill the vacancy
by appointing a new member for the remainder of the vacated term. A Board
member may be removed for cause by the Mayor of the city.
   (B)   Each Board member, before entering upon the duties of office, must
take and subscribe an oath of office under I.C. 5-4-1, which shall be endorsed
upon the certificate of appointment and filed with the records of the Board.
   (C)   A Board member may not receive a salary, and no profit or money of the
City Redevelopment Authority inures to the benefit of the member.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 33.47  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Immediately after January 15 of each year, the Board shall hold an
organizational meeting. The Board shall elect one of the members President,
another Vice President and another Secretary-Treasurer to perform the duties of
those offices.
   (B)   These officers serve from the date of their election and until their
successors are elected and qualified.
   (C)   The Board may elect an Assistant Secretary-Treasurer.
   (D)   Special meetings may be called by the President of the Board or any
two members of the Board.
   (E)   A majority of the members constitutes a quorum, and the concurrence of
a majority of the members is necessary to authorize any action.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 8-8-1994)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT
§ 33.60  PURPOSE.
   The Common Council deems it to be in the best interest of the city and its
citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation, redevelopment or
economic development of areas by private enterprise by establishing a
Department of Redevelopment.
(Ord. 90-19, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.61  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Common Council hereby establishes the Department of Redevelopment of the
city. The Department will be controlled by a board of five members known as the
City Redevelopment Commission.
(Ord. 90-19, passed 11-12-1990)
§ 33.62  REDEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14 and 36-7-23, all of the territory within the
corporate boundaries of the city will be a taxing district to be known as the
redevelopment district of the city for the purpose of levying and collecting
special benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes as provided in I.C. 36-7-14
and 36-7-23. The Common Council finds and determines that all of the taxable
property within this special taxing1 district will be considered to be
benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic development projects
carried out under I.C. 36-7-14 and 36-7-23 to the extent of the special taxes
levied under the I.C. 36-7-14 and 36-7-23.
(Ord. 90-19, passed 11-12-1990)
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC PARKS
§ 33.70  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The provisions of I.C. 36-10-4 are hereby adopted. A separate department
within the city government is created, to be known as the Department of Public
Parks, in accordance with I.C. 36-10-4. The Department of Parks and Recreation
previously created under I.C. 36-10-3 shall cease to exist and all of its
obligations and property are hereby transferred to the Department of Public
Parks created hereunder.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 9-24-2012)
§ 33.71  SERVING MEMBERS.
   The Department of Public Parks shall be governed by a Board of Park
Commissioners. The Park and Recreation Board previously created under I.C. 36-
10-3 shall cease to exist and all of its obligations and property are hereby
transferred to the Board of Park Commissioners created hereunder. The Board of
Park Commissioners shall be composed of four Commissioners appointed by the
Mayor. Each Commissioner must be a freeholder residing in the city and no more
than two Commissioners shall be affiliated with the same political party. Each
Commissioner appointed shall hold office for a term of four years beginning on
January 1 in the year of the appointment. One ex officio member of the Board of
School Trustees and the Library District Board each will serve, participate and
vote, as set forth in §
100.15.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 9-24-2012)
§ 33.72  OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before beginning his or her duties, each Commissioner shall take and
subscribe the usual oath of office. The oath shall be endorsed upon the
certificate of appointment and filed with the Clerk-Treasurer. If a
Commissioner has not filed his or her oath within 30 days after the beginning
of the term or by the date of his or her appointment if he or she was appointed
after the beginning of the term, he or she is considered to have refused to
serve and the office becomes vacant.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 9-24-2012)
§ 33.73  VACANCY.
   The Mayor shall appoint a Commissioner to fill a vacancy caused by the
expiration of a term by February 1 of that year. If a vacancy occurs, the Mayor
shall appoint a new Commissioner for the remainder of the unexpired term. A
Commissioner may not be removed from office except upon charges preferred in
writing before the Mayor, with a hearing held on them. If the Mayor is bringing
the charges, the Common Council shall appoint a hearing officer. The only
permissible reasons for removal are inefficiency, neglect of duty, and
malfeasance in office.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 9-24-2012)
§ 33.74  GENERAL PARK FUND.
   A general park fund is established, the funds for which shall be raised by
an annual tax levied by the Common Council, or by gifts, donations or payments
to the general park fund as provided by I.C. 36-10-4-16. All funds derived from
any such tax shall be deposited in the general park fund. All monies on deposit
in existing funds for park purposes under I.C. 36-10-3 shall be transferred to
the general park fund and such prior funds shall cease to exist.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 9-24-2012)
§ 33.75  ADMINISTRATION OF FUNDS.
   The Board of Park Commissioners shall henceforth administer all funds in and
appropriated to the general park fund established herein.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 9-24-2012)
§ 33.76  TAXATION.
   All of the area within the corporate boundaries of the city constitutes a
taxing district for levying special benefit taxes for park purposes as provided
in I.C. 36-10-4.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 9-24-2012)
CHAPTER 34:  RESERVED
CHAPTER 35:  ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
35.01   Established
   
35.02   Authority to accept fines, collect fees
   
35.03   Clerk-Treasurer designated Chief Clerk of Bureau; Deputy Clerk
§ 35.01  ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established an Ordinance Violations Bureau of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-86)  (Ord. 81-21, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 35.02  AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT FINES, COLLECT FEES.
   The Ordinance Violations Bureau is hereby authorized to accept fines imposed
for violations of the terms of the city code from those persons charged who
wish to plead guilty to the charges; the Violations Bureau is further
authorized to collect fees established for copies of accident reports, theft
reports and vandalism reports. Charges for copies of theft and vandalism
reports shall be $3 each.
(Prior Code, § 2-87)  (Ord. 81-21, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 35.03  CLERK-TREASURER DESIGNATED CHIEF CLERK OF BUREAU; DEPUTY CLERK.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the Chief Clerk of the Ordinance
Violations Bureau and shall keep the records of the Bureau in a manner as he or
she may direct. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to appoint a Deputy Ordinance
Violation Clerk as is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 2-88)  (Ord. 81-21, passed 11-23-1981)
CHAPTER 36:  FISCAL BRANCH
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Operation; organization
   
36.02   Use and issuance of credit cards
Capital Asset Policy
   
36.15   General information
   
36.16   Definition of capital assets
   
36.17   Valuation of capital assets
   
36.18   Asset definitions by major category
   
36.19   Depreciation methods
   
36.20   Capital asset acquisitions
   
36.21   Asset transfers and dispositions
   
36.22   Periodic inventories
   
36.23   Responsibilities of Clerk-Treasurer’s office
   
36.24   Responsibilities of department heads
Funds
   
36.35   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
36.36   General Improvement Fund
   
36.37   Police Pension Fund
   
36.38   Fire Department Fire Code Enforcement/Incident Mitigation Fund
   
36.39   City Court Deferral Program Fund
   
36.40   Special non-reverting operation fund for park purposes
   
36.41   LFD Non-Reverting Training Fund
   
36.42   Employee Health Fund
   
36.43   Fund 259 LOIT 2016 Special Distribution Fund
   
36.44   Interdiction Non-Reverting Fund
   
36.45   Fund 9500 Loit 2016 Special Distribution Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01  OPERATION; ORGANIZATION.
   The fiscal branch shall operate under the authority of the Clerk-Treasurer
and be organized as follows:
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is the fiscal officer of the city and the head of
the fiscal branch. He or she shall perform the duties assigned by I.C. 36-4-10.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized, pursuant to I.C. 36-4-11-4,
to appoint one Deputy Clerk-Treasurer, to be paid from funds appropriated for
the office of Clerk-Treasurer and funds from the city utility. The Deputy shall
work under at the pleasure of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish space within his or her office for
the administrative (activities) and records of the city’s utilities. The
utility clerks serve at the pleasure of the Board which appointed them. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall be compensated for services he or she renders to the
city’s utilities.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)  (Ord. 82-11, passed 7-12-1982)
§ 36.02  USE AND ISSUANCE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   The use and issuance of credit cards by various offices and departments of
the city is hereby authorized as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may negotiate on such terms as he or she
deems advisable, with banks, suppliers, or service providers to the applicable
department to obtain credit cards or accounts of credit (collectively “credit
cards”) for the use and benefit of the city to operate efficiently.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to obtain credit cards and
purchasing cards titled for city departments on the request of the department
head.
   (B)    A list of all credit cards issued to the city shall be maintained by
the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The list shall include the credit limit and
authorized users. Unless a higher limit is authorized in advance, the credit
limit for each credit card shall not exceed $5,000.
   (C)   (1)   The department head may authorize certain employees within the
department to use the credit card solely for the purposes set out herein, but
the department head, or their designee shall be responsible for the safekeeping
of the credit cards and purchasing cards.
      (2)   City credit cards and purchasing cards shall be used only with the
approval of the department head, or their designee. The department head shall
maintain a usage log for each card identified by card account number, with
entries certified by signature of the department head, or their designee. The
log shall include the following information:
         (a)   The name and position of the individual using the city’s cards;
         (b)   The date the card is issued to the individual, the estimated
amounts to be charged, the type of expenses (such as airline tickets or office
supplies), and the appropriate account numbers to be expended; and
         (c)   The date the card is returned and the amount charged to the
card.
   (D)   Credit cards and purchasing cards shall be used for purchases relating
to the performance of city business only. No personal use of a city credit card
or purchasing card is permitted, even if an employee offers to reimburse the
city for the employee’s personal use of a city credit card or purchasing card.
Such permitted uses include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Purchasing of supplies and equipment of the use and benefit of the
department;
      (2)   Travel and lodging expenses of departmental personnel while
traveling on approved business;
      (3)   Meal expenses of departmental personnel while traveling on approved
business, provided that any such expense may not exceed any authorized per diem
for meals. Reasonable tips or gratuities are allowed as meal expenses if
service is provided as part of the meal. Tips shall not exceed 20% of the bill.
No charges for alcohol will be permitted;
      (4)   Approved training and education costs for departmental personnel;
and
      (5)   Any other use required for the efficient operation of the
department when use of vouchers, checks, or other means of credit are not
possible, provided that said use had been approved by the department head.
   (E)   (1)   Within seven days of use of a credit card, the employee using
the credit card shall deliver to the Clerk-Treasurer the following documents:
         (a)   A claim form for the charges made signed by the employee;
         (b)   Original receipts and/or invoices for the charges; and
         (c)   Any other documentation requested by the department which
supports the claim.
         (d)   If the employee loses the original receipt and/or invoice, the
employee shall provide a duplicate receipt and/or invoice or an affidavit of
lost receipt.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) above, payment of credit card and
purchasing card bills shall be subject to the audit requirements of accounts
payable vouchers in conformity with I.C. 5-11-10, I.C. 36-4-8 and the
regulations of the State Board of Accounts. Electronic invoices or itemized
receipts are required for all credit card and purchasing card purchases,
including restaurant charges. Payment will not be made on the basis of a credit
card or purchasing card statement. Signed charge slips showing a total charge
only, with no itemization of items purchased, are not acceptable. It is the
responsibility of the employee authorizing the charge to obtain proper itemized
receipts.
   (F)   The department head shall ensure no charges are placed on the credit
card for an amount which would cause any budgeted appropriation of the
department to be overdrawn.
   (G)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay the credit card company through the
standard claim procedure of the city. The underlying invoice or receipt for
travel and/or supplies under the credit card shall be attached to the claim.
   (H)   The city may pay interest and annual fees on the credit card. However,
any interest or late fees accruing because of delays in the billing by the
office shall be paid by that office.
   (I)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be listed on the account as authorized to
access the credit card records.
   (J)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to revoke credit cards or purchasing
cards that have been used in violation of city policy. The Clerk-Treasurer is
authorized to cancel any card at any time, or to remove any authorized user at
any time.
   (K)   Any authorized user leaving employment is to be removed from the card
at the time of resignation/dismissal/termination.
   (L)   Any unauthorized use of the card is to be considered grounds for
dismissal by the department head and/or the Mayor and the Board of Works.
   (M)   On-time payment of credit cards is the responsibility of the Clerk-
Treasurer; recurring late charges are to be considered unauthorized use of the
account.
(Res. 2014-01, passed 1-13-2014; Res. 2014-07, passed 4-28-2014)
CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
§ 36.15  GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The fixed asset policy is being issued retroactive effective January
1, 2018. The new policy will be referred to as the capital asset policy. This
policy is being issued to document the minimum value of capital assets to be
reported on our financial reports and to include infrastructure assets. This
issuance of a policy document is related to the implementation of a new
reporting model, Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement 34.
Statement 34 will require the city to depreciate capital assets. The capital
asset threshold will be $5,000. An asset with a value under $5,000 will be
expensed in the year of purchase. The infrastructure portion of this policy is
also effective January 1, 2007.
   (B)   City stormwater utility will follow this same definition of capital
assets except any item with a unit cost of $5,000 or more shall be capitalized.
Assets that are not capitalized (items less than $5,000) are expensed in the
year of acquisition. City stormwater utility will follow the capitalization
guidelines of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (C)   The City of Lebanon is, by this subchapter, establishing a capital
asset policy in order to provide a higher degree of control over its
considerable investment in capital assets, and to be able to demonstrate
accountability to its various constituencies: citizens, rate-payers, oversight
bodies and regulators. All public information pertaining to capital assets will
be made available in the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR).
   (D)   The purpose of establishing a capital policy is fivefold:
      (1)   To safeguard the investments of the citizens of Lebanon;
      (2)   To fix responsibility for the custody of equipment;
      (3)   To provide a basis for formulating capital asset acquisition,
maintenance and retirement polices;
      (4)   To provide data for financial reporting; and
      (5)   To demonstrate appropriate stewardship responsibility for public
assets.
   (E)   This policy will only serve to classify capital assets, including
fixed and infrastructure, for accuracy in financial reporting through the
Indiana State Board of Accounts. It does not include data processing,
programming requirements, or computer operations procedures.
(Ord. 05-01, passed - -; Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 36.16  DEFINITION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets include land, land improvements, including monuments,
buildings, building improvements, construction in progress, machinery and
equipment, vehicles and infrastructure. All land will be capitalized but not
depreciated. All items with a useful life of more than one year, and having a
unit cost of $5,000 or more shall be capitalized (including acquisitions by
lease-purchase agreements and donated items). A capital asset meeting the
criteria will be reported and depreciated in the government-wide financial
statements.
   (B)   Assets that are not capitalized (items less than $5,000) are expensed
in the year of acquisition. An inventory will be kept on all computers and
other equipment with a capitalized cost of less than $5,000. See §
36.21.
   (C)   (1)   Exceptions are:
         (a)   Items costing less than the above limits which are permanently
installed as a part of the cost of original construction or installation of a
larger building or equipment unit will be included in the cost of the larger
unit;
         (b)   Modular equipment added subsequent to original equipment
construction of a larger building or equipment unit which may be put together
to form larger units costing more than the prescribed limits will be charged to
capital assets even though the cost of individual items is less than such
units; and
         (c)   Cabinets, shelving, bookcases, and similar items, added
subsequent to original construction, which are custom made for a specific place
and adaptable elsewhere, will be capitalized.
      (2)   Purchases made using grant funds must comply with grant
requirements or the above procedures, whichever are the most restrictive.
   (D)   Threshold levels for capital assets. The following schedule will be
followed for the different types of capital assets other than infrastructure
assets:
 Capitalize/Depreciate
                               Capitalize/Depreciate
Building                       $5,000 >
Building improvements          $5,000 >
City stormwater utility assets $5,000 >
Construction in progress       All/capitalize only
Land                           All/capitalize only
Land improvements              $5,000 >
Machinery and equipment        $5,000 >
Vehicle                        $5,000 >
 
(Ord. 05-01, passed - -; Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 36.17  VALUATION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets must be recorded at actual cost. Normally the cost
recorded is the purchase price or construction costs of the asset, but also
included is any other reasonable and necessary costs incurred to place the
asset in its intended location and intended use. Such costs could include the
following:
      (1)   Legal and title fees, closing costs;
      (2)   Appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying fees;
      (3)   Damage payments;
      (4)   Land preparation costs, demolition costs;
      (5)   Architect, engineering and accounting fees;
      (6)   Insurance premiums during construction;
      (7)   Transportation charges; and
      (8)   Interest costs during construction.
   (B)   Donated or contributed assets should be recorded at their fair market
value on the date donated.
(Ord. 05-01, passed - -; Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 36.18  ASSET DEFINITIONS BY MAJOR CATEGORY.
   (A)   It is important to the maintenance of accurate records that each asset
category be precisely defined and that all persons responsible for records
maintenance are fully aware of the categorization system. This section further
clarifies the asset definitions by major category.
      (1)   Land. Land is defined as specified land, lots, parcels or acreage
including rights-of- way, owned by the City of Lebanon, its various
departments, boards or authorities, regardless of the method or date of
acquisition. Easements will not be included as the city does not own them, but
as an interest in land owned by another (i.e. property owner) that entitles its
holder to a specified limited use.
      (2)   Improvements other than buildings.
         (a)   Examples of city assets in this category are walks, parking
areas and drives, fencing, retaining walls, pools, fountains, planters,
underground sprinkler systems, and other similar items.
         (b)   Examples of city stormwater utility assets in this category are
storm sewers, dams, fences, intake pipes, and manholes.
      (3)   Buildings.
         (a)   All structures designed and erected to house equipment,
services, or functions are included. This includes systems, services, and
fixtures within the buildings, and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire
escapes, canopies, areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and all other such
units that serve the building.
         (b)   Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling,
ventilating and air handling systems, alarm systems, sound systems,
surveillance systems, passenger and freight elevators, escalators, built-in
casework, walk-in coolers and freezers, fixed shelving, and other fixed
equipment are included with the building, if owned.
         (c)   Communication antennas and/or towers are not included as
buildings. These are parts of the equipment units that they serve.
      (4)   Equipment. Equipment includes all other types of physical property
within the scope of the fixed asset management system not previously
classified. Included within this category are office mechanical equipment,
office furniture, appliances, furnishings, machinery items, maintenance
equipment, communication equipment, police, fire, sanitation and park
department, laboratory equipment, vehicles, road equipment, aircraft, emergency
equipment, earth moving equipment, text equipment, civil defense equipment, and
data processing equipment. All supplies are excluded.
      (5)   Infrastructure.
         (a)   Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets that
normally can be preserved for a significant greater number of years than most
capital and that are normally stationary in nature. Examples include roads,
streetlights, traffic signals, drainage systems, and water systems.
Infrastructure assets do not include buildings, drives, parking lots or any
other examples given above that are incidental to property or access to the
property above.
         (b)   Additions and improvements to infrastructure, which increase the
capacity or efficiency of the asset, will be capitalized. Maintenance/repairs
will be considered as necessary to maintain the existing asset, and therefore
not capitalized. For example, patching, resurfacing, snow removal, etc., are
considered maintenance activities and will be expensed. Also, normal department
operating activities such as feasibility studies, and preliminary engineering
and design, will be expensed and not capitalized as an element of the
infrastructure asset.
         (c)   Alleys will not be included as part of infrastructure for the
following reason: Existing improved alleys will be maintained as gravel alleys,
and the city is responsible only for the maintenance, such as patching and
repairing. Any investments to upgrade the alleys will be done by homeowner
participation. Therefore, the city will not track and value alleys, and the
patching/repairs will be expensed as they occur.
   (B)   Retroactive asset reporting. The retroactive reporting requirements
for infrastructure of GASB 34 requires the city to report items put into
service from 1980 forward, and gives the city the option to report items put
into service prior to 1980. The city will report only on items put into service
after 1980.
(Ord. 05-01, passed - -; Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 36.19  DEPRECIATION METHODS.
   (A)   The city will be depreciating capital assets by using the straight-
line method. Salvage value will be determined on an asset-by-asset basis.
Depreciation will be calculated at fiscal year-end. Land is not depreciated
according to general accepted accounting principles.
   (B)   A network of assets is composed of all assets that provide a
particular type of service for government. A subsystem of a network of assets
is composed of all assets that make a similar portion or segment of a network
of assets. The following will be the breakdown of our networks and subsystems:
 
Roads/streets network
 Subsystems Types of streets
           Curbs and gutters
Traffic components network
 Subsystems Traffic signals (controls, loop detectors and sensors)
           Street lights
 
   (C)   Straight-line depreciation. All assets accounted for under the capital
asset policy will be depreciated using the straight-line method of
depreciation. A gain or loss on disposal will be recorded. Following is a list
of the most common useful lives:
Item Description Useful Life
Item Description                            Useful Life
Armored vehicles                            15 years
Building components (HVAC systems, roofing) 20 years
Buildings                                   50 years
Computer hardware                           3 years
Computer software                           5 years
Fire trucks (apparatus, pumper)             15 years
Flood walls/gates                           50 years
Grounds equipment - (mowers, tractors,      15 years
attachments)
Heavy equipment                             10 years
Land improvements - ground work (golf
course, athletic fields, landscaping,       20 years
fencing)
Land improvements - structure (parking      20 years
lots, athletic courts, swimming pools)
Leasehold improvements                      Useful life of asset or lease term
                                            (whichever is shorter)
Office equipment                            5 years
Office furniture                            20 years
Outdoor equipment - (playground equipment,  15 years
radio towers)
Roads
   Asphaltic concrete                    20 years
   Brick or stone                        50 years
Portland cement concrete                    30 years
   Gravel                                15 years
Street lights                               35 years
Traffic signals                             25 years
Vehicles                                    5 years
 
(Ord. 05-01, passed - -; Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 36.20  CAPITAL ASSET ACQUISITIONS.
   (A)   The method of acquisition is not a determining factor. Each department
should report items acquired by:
      (1)   Regular purchases;
      (2)   Lease purchase - see below;
      (3)   Construction by city personnel;
      (4)   Construction by an outside contractor;
      (5)   Resolution/condemnation;
      (6)   Donation/contribution;
      (7)   Addition to an existing asset;
      (8)   Transfer from another department;
      (9)   Trade or barter; and
      (10)   Annexation.
   (B)   Leased equipment should be capitalized if the lease agreement meets
any one of the following criteria:
      (1)   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by the
end of the lease term;
      (2)   The lease contains a bargain purchase option;
      (3)   The lease term is equal to 75% of the estimated economic life of
the leased property; or
      (4)   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of
the lease, excluding executory costs, equals at least 90% of the fair value of
the leased property.
   (C)   Leases that do not meet any of the above criteria should be recorded
as an operating lease and reported in the notes of the financial statements.
(Ord. 05-01, passed - -; Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 36.21  ASSET TRANSFERS AND DISPOSITIONS.
   (A)   Property should not be transferred, turned-in for auction, or disposed
of without prior approval of the department head. A vehicle/equipment
outprocessing checklist should be sent to the City Clerk-Treasurer's Office in
all cases. This form is a dual-purpose form for transfer (defined as any
movement of an asset by virtue of change in location, either by account,
department, building, floor, or room) or retirement (disposal) of property.
   (B)   The main points to be remembered when using this form are:
      (1)   Always provide sufficient detail to properly identify the asset,
most importantly the asset's tag number or city ID;
      (2)   Be accurate and do not overlook any of the needed entries;
      (3)   Write legibly;
      (4)   Complete each column for every asset listed on the form;
      (5)   Enter information in correct row, depending on whether you are
transferring or deleting an asset;
      (6)   Have department head sign at the bottom of the form; and
      (7)   Return the form to the City Clerk-Treasurer's Office.
   (C)   If an asset is stolen, the department should notify the Safety Manager
as well as the City Clerk-Treasurer's office.
(Ord. 05-01, passed - -; Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 36.22  PERIODIC INVENTORIES.
   A physical inventory of all capital assets (any item over $5,000) will be
conducted in each department on or about December 31 of every year. The City
Clerk-Treasurer's office will conduct spot checks on a random basis. Department
heads will be accountable for the capital asset inventory charged to their
departments by verifying a list of their capital assets at year-end.
(Ord. 05-01, passed - -; Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 36.23  RESPONSIBILITIES OF CLERK-TREASURER’S OFFICE.
   The Fiscal Officer will ensure that accounting for capital assets is being
exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory, both initially and
periodically in subsequent years. The Fiscal Officer will further ensure that
the capital asset report will be updated annually to reflect additions,
retirements, and transfers and to reflect the new, annual capital asset balance
for financial reporting purposes and the annual and accumulated depreciation
calculation.
(Ord. 05-01, passed - -; Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 36.24  RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the department head to act as or designate
a steward for each piece of property. The steward will become the focal point
for questions regarding the availability, condition, and usage of the asset, as
well as the contact during the physical inventory process.
   (B)   The steward shall be designated as the person to record the receipt of
the asset, to examine the asset to make sure that no damage was incurred during
shipment and to make sure that the asset was received in working order.
   (C)   The steward is also responsible for arranging for the necessary
preventative maintenance and any needed repairs to keep the asset in working
condition. It is necessary to have a responsible person available for questions
that arise during a physical inventory or when someone wants to borrow the
asset. The steward ensures that the asset is used for the purpose for which it
was acquired and that there is no personal or unauthorized use. In addition,
the steward should report any property damage or theft.
(Ord. 05-01, passed - -; Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-13-2018)
FUNDS
§ 36.35  CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Established.  The Common Council as the legislative body of the city
establishes a municipal Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (B)   Ad valorem property tax levy.  An ad valorem property tax levy will be
imposed and the revenues from the levy will be retained in the City Cumulative
Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   Use of accumulated funds.  The funds accumulated in the City
Cumulative Capital Development Fund will be used for capital improvements as
described in I.C. 36-8-14 (cumulative firefighting building, equipment, police
radio fund); I.C. 36-9-16-2 (cumulative building funds); I.C. 36-9-16-3
(cumulative capital improvement fund); I.C. 36-9-16-5 (cumulative street fund);
I.C. 36-9-17 (general improvement fund); I.C. 36-9-26 (cumulative building
fund-sewers); and I.C. 36-9-27-100 (cumulative drainage fund); and any other
purpose authorized by statue for capital improvements.
   (D)   Emergency uses of Fund.  Notwithstanding division (C) above, funds
accumulated in the city Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for
purposes other than the purposes stated in division (C) if the purpose is to
protect the public health, welfare or safety in an emergency situation which
demands immediate action. Money may be spent under the authority of this
section only after the Mayor of the city issues a declaration that the public
health, welfare or safety is in immediate danger that requires this expenditure
of money in the fund.
   (E)   Effective date of Fund and tax.  This Fund takes effect upon approval
of the State Board of Tax Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
§ 36.36  GENERAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   By virtue of the powers granted by I.C. 36-9-17, there is hereby
created a fund to be known as the General Improvement Fund, which shall be used
to pay for the construction, repair or improvement of streets, alleys,
sidewalks, curbs, gutters and sewers. This Fund shall consist of funds realized
from the collection of all special assessments for benefits to property for the
construction, repair or improvement of streets, alleys, sidewalks, curbs,
gutters and sewers, together with any appropriations made from the General Fund
of the city or from taxes levied by the Common Council of the city for those
purposes.
   (B)   The Fund shall be kept, maintained, used and limited in accordance
with the provisions of the above cited statutes and may be built up to an
aggregate amount of not to exceed $0.50 on each $100 of taxable property, real
and personal, in the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)  (Ord. passed 1-11-1954; Ord. passed 1-25-1954)
§ 36.37  POLICE PENSION FUND.
   (A)   Established.  There is hereby established and created a Police Pension
Fund in and for the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-16)
   (B)   Board of Trustees.
      (1)   Created.  There is hereby created a Board of Trustees of the Police
Pension Fund created by this section.
(Prior Code, § 21-17)
      (2)   Composition; election.  The Police Pension Fund of the city shall
be governed and managed by a Board of Trustees which shall contain seven
members, three of whom shall be ex officio and four of whom shall be elected.
The three ex officio members of the Board shall be the Mayor, the City Clerk-
Treasurer and the Chief of Police. One of the elected members shall be a
retired member of the police force of the city and the remaining three members
shall be active members of the police force of the city. The retired member and
the active members of the Board shall be elected at a meeting of the members of
the police force of the city.
(Prior Code, § 21-18)
      (3)   Powers and duties.  The Board of Trustees of the Police Pension
Fund shall be deemed to be fully established and created and shall possess
these powers and exercise those rights and duties as are prescribed by the laws
of the state relating to police pension funds.
(Prior Code, § 21-19)
(Ord. passed 2-25-1952)
§ 36.38  FIRE DEPARTMENT FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT/INCIDENT MITIGATION FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall create a non-reverting account designated
City Fire Department Fire Code Enforcement/Incident Mitigation Fund.
   (B)   In addition to funds collected from inspection services, fines,
violations, citations, permits and insurance proceeds from incident mitigation
as previously authorized, funds may be received related to training programs.
   (C)   Accumulated funds may be dispersed for Fire Department training,
equipment, supplies, and for expenses associated with long-term incident
mitigation and disasters, and for teaching, hosting or instruction related to
various training programs.
   (D)   The Fund may receive and deposit such fees, donations, costs and funds
received from any participating agency, organization or individual and the
funds shall continue to accumulate from year to year and not revert to the city
General Fund.
   (E)   The Fund may be used for expenses relating to hosting or instruction
of the training program, including travel expenses as necessary, in addition to
the eligible uses denoted in Ord. 2009-02. This includes payment for the
instructor of the class, class materials, books, equipment, refreshments,
printing costs, any expense or cost reasonably associated with the training or
class.
   (F)   The Fund may also be used to establish a “reward” program to offer
financial incentives to individuals to provide information relating to the
investigation, apprehension and prosecution of arson related crimes.
   (G)   Claims may be made from this Fund only by the Fire Chief or Deputy
Fire Chief of the city Fire Department.
(Ord. 09-02, passed - - ; Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-24-2014)
§ 36.39  CITY COURT DEFERRAL PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   All fees paid by persons charged in the City Court pursuant to a
written deferral program shall be paid into a separate fund hereby established
and titled the City Court Deferral Program Fund.
   (B)   Transfer of any monies within the Fund may be made only upon the
written approval of the City Attorney.
   (C)   Monies in the Fund shall be expended only for the education, training
or equipment for the City Police Department.
   (D)   The City Police Department, through its authorized agent, shall
furnish an annual report to the Board of Public Works and Safety and to the
Common Council as to the activities, receipts and expenses of the City Court
deferral program.
(Ord. 96-2, passed 2-26-1996)
§ 36.40  SPECIAL NON-REVERTING OPERATION FUND FOR PARK PURPOSES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special non-reverting operating fund for
park purposes pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-22(b)(1) with the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer of the city which special non-reverting operating fund for park
purposes shall have deposited to it those monies and fees procured from park
and recreation activities as specified herein.
   (B)   Under the provisions of the Indiana park law, specifically I.C. 36-10-
3-22(b)(1), expenditures may be made from the special non-reverting operating
fund for park purposes by the Board of Parks and Recreation, by appropriation,
subject to the approval of claims allowed and signed by the Common Council as
the fiscal body of the city.
(Ord. 89-9, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 36.41  LFD NON-REVERTING TRAINING FUND.
   (A)   There is established a non-reverting training fund to be utilized by
the Lebanon Fire Department (LFD) to be designated as the LFD Non-Reverting
Training Fund. The city and LFD may deposit in the fund such funds or monies
received from participating agencies and use those deposits for the hosting of
training seminars, classes, exercises, and activities for the advancement and
training of its members and those of participating agencies and their members.
   (B)   The fund may receive and deposit such fees, donations, costs and funds
received from any participating agency or other organization if such funds are
intended for the training and advancement of LFD and/or participating agencies,
and the funds shall not revert to the city general fund, but shall be
maintained in the fund from year to year.
   (C)   The funds captured may only be used for the purposes of hosting,
sponsoring and conducting a training class. This includes payment for the
instructor of the class, class materials, books, equipment, refreshments,
printing cost, any expense or cost reasonably associated with training or
class.
   (D)   Claims may be made from this fund by the Fire Chief or Deputy Fire
Chief of the Lebanon Fire Department.
(Ord. 2012-12, passed 10-22-2012)
§ 36.42  EMPLOYEE HEALTH FUND.
   (A)   The Employee Health Fund, which shall be non-reverting and perpetual
and shall be utilized to pay health care costs of employees and participants in
its health care plan is hereby established.
   (B)   Any remaining balance in the general fund line item designated for
employee health and medical costs shall be transferred to the Employee Health
Fund.
   (C)   Any funds appropriated or budgeted for employee medical and health
costs for the Fiscal Year 2013 shall be transferred into the Employee Health
Fund.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-11-2013)
§ 36.43  FUND 259 LOIT 2016 SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   The Fund 259 LOIT 2016 Special Distribution Fund is created. The
source for this Fund is a special distribution of local option income tax
pursuant to Senate Enrolled Act 67.
   (B)   Expenditures from this Fund are restricted to allowable purposes per
I.C. 6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A) as follows:
      (1)   Engineering, land acquisition, construction, resurfacing,
maintenance, restoration, or rehabilitation of both local and arterial road and
street systems.
      (2)   The payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily to
finance road, street, or thoroughfare projects.
      (3)   Any local costs required to undertake a recreational or reservoir
road project under I.C. 8-23-5.
      (4)   The purchase, rental or repair of highway equipment.
      (5)   Providing a match for a grant from the local road and bridge
matching grant fund under I.C. 8-23-30.
      (6)   Capital projects for aviation-related property or facilities,
including capital projects of a board of aviation commissioners established
under I.C. 8-22-2 or an airport authority established under I.C. 8-22-3-1.
   (C)   The Fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process as other
municipal funds.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 36.44  INTERDICTION NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   The Interdiction Non-Reverting Fund is established.
   (B)   All money, equipment or other items of value (“assets”) received from
the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) as proceeds from a seizure and
forfeiture in cooperation with the Lebanon Police Department shall be deposited
in the Fund along with other fees, donations or items of value received from
other law enforcement agencies or individuals for training and education in
interdiction, detection and other law enforcement activities.
   (C)    The Fund shall maintain its balance from year to year and it shall
not revert to the General Fund or any other fund.
   (D)   The Fund may only be accessed to pay for expenses as permitted and
provided for under federal law and DOJ guidelines, and in accordance with state
law.
   (E)   Claims from this Fund shall only be disbursed upon request of the
Police Chief or Deputy Police Chief of the city, or their designee.
(Res. 2015-15, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 36.45  FUND 9500 LOIT 2016 SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   The Fund 9500 Loit 2016 Special Distribution Fund is created. The
source for this new Fund is a special distribution of local option income tax
pursuant to Senate Enrolled Act 67.
   (B)   Expenditures from this Fund are restricted to the allowable purposes
per I.C. 6-3.6-9-17(h)(2) as follows:
      (1)   The remaining part of the special distribution may be used by the
county, city or town for
any of the purposes of the county, city or town.
   (C)   The fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process as other
municipal funds.
   (D)   There will be no other funding sources for this Fund, and once the
funds are gone, the Fund will be closed.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 37:  TAXATION
Section
Food and Beverage Tax
   
37.01   Imposition
   
37.02   Application
   
37.03   Manner of imposition, payment and collection
   
37.04   Establishment of Food and Beverage Tax Fund
FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX
§ 37.01  IMPOSITION.
   The city’s food and beverage tax is hereby amended and imposes on food and
beverage transaction at the rate of 1% of the gross retail income of the food
and beverage transactions occurring anywhere in the city.
(Ord. 05-14, passed 9-29-2005; Ord. 08-06, passed - -)
§ 37.02  APPLICATION.
   The city food and beverage tax has applied to food and beverage transactions
occurring since November 1, 2005 and thereafter.
(Ord. 05-14, passed 9-29-2005; Ord. 08-06, passed - -)
§ 37.03  MANNER OF IMPOSITION, PAYMENT AND COLLECTION.
   Pursuant to law, the city food and beverage tax shall be imposed, paid and
collected in the same manner as the state gross retail tax is imposed, paid and
collected.
(Ord. 05-14, passed 9-29-2005; Ord. 08-06, passed - -)
§ 37.04  ESTABLISHMENT OF FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX FUND.
   There is hereby established a City Food and Beverage Tax Fund into which the
City Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit all tax revenues from the city food and
beverage tax received monthly from the Treasurer of the state. Further,
revenues in the Tax Fund shall be used by the city for specific projects as
specified by the Common Council. The Common Council shall at the end of each
year approve an amount from the Food and Beverage Fund to be placed in a line
item titled “Special Projects” in the Food and Beverage Fund. The Common
Council shall also at the end of each year set a policy on the dispensing of
those funds for projects and the policy and all projects will be approved by
the Common Council for the following year. The Common Council shall also have
the authority to approve any projects in the following year if all the funds
appropriated at the end year for next year have not been budgeted for specific
projects. The Council President shall appoint a committee of Council members
every year to review all projects submitted to the Council to be funded out of
the Fund. The Committee shall prepare a list of projects at the end of each
year and submit that list to the Council for approval.
(Ord. 05-14, passed 9-29-2005; Ord. 08-06, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Funds, see §§
36.35 through
36.40
CHAPTER 38:  CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
   
38.01   State law adopted by reference
§ 38.01  STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts by reference the state Emergency Management and
Disaster Law, being I.C. 10-14-3, as if set forth in full in this section.
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE, TRASH AND REFUSE
      
52.   UTILITY BOARD
      
53.   ELECTRIC UTILITY
      
54.   WATER UTILITY
      
55.   SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
      
56.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
57.   COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Public utility facility additions privately financed and turned over to
city to be under control of city; definition
   
50.02   City utility standards
§ 50.01  PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY ADDITIONS PRIVATELY FINANCED AND TURNED OVER
TO CITY TO BE UNDER CONTROL OF CITY; DEFINITION.
   (A)   All additions to the public utility facilities constructed by private
funds and turned over to the city for maintenance and upkeep shall be under the
direct control of the city as are all similar utilities owned or controlled by
the city. No private individual, firm or corporation shall have any right to
charge anyone for or prevent anyone from making a connection to a utility
facility.
   (B)   The term PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITIES, as used in this section, shall
include, but is not limited to, sewage lift stations, water mains, sewage force
mains, gravity flow sewers and electric utility lines and poles.
   (C)   All new or replacement water mains, valves and other appurtenances;
and all new or replacement sewers, manholes and other appurtenances constructed
or reconstructed in a flood hazard area, as defined elsewhere in this code,
shall be designed and constructed as to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into these systems and discharges from these systems into
floodwaters.
(Prior Code, § 25-1)  (Ord. passed 4-23-1956; Ord. 82-7, passed 4-26-1982)
§ 50.02  CITY UTILITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The city utility standards for water, wastewater collection and storm
sewers as approved by the City Utility Service Board in April of 1995, copies
of which are on file at the office of the city utilities, are hereby approved
and adopted herein.
   (B)   The general and specific provisions of the standards are to be made
available to developers, engineers, land surveyors and City Utility Department
personnel and employees as necessary for any design and construction of water,
wastewater collection and storm sewer facilities within the city.
(Ord. 95-7, passed - -)
CHAPTER 51:  GARBAGE, TRASH AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Disposal in secure trash bag or container required
   
51.003   Wrapping of garbage required
   
51.004   Disposal of natural debris, bulky refuse
   
51.005   Commercial accumulations
   
51.006   Restrictions on vehicles transporting refuse and debris
   
51.007   Accumulations in violation of chapter declared nuisance; abatement by
city; collection of costs
   
51.008   Evidence of chapter violations
Open Burning
   
51.020   Burning restrictions; definition
   
51.021   Intention of Council; generally
   
51.022   Bonfires and outdoor rubbish fires
   
51.023   Leaves, weeds and the like
   
51.024   Garbage
   
51.025   Fire Chief’s right to inspect all fires
Sanitary Landfill
   
51.040   Commercial scavenger services using landfill required to register
   
51.041   Initial registration fee; term
   
51.042   Out of county refuse prohibited
   
51.043   Closure of the city landfill
Residential Surcharge
   
51.055   Established; general method of collection; to whom applicable
   
51.056   Manner of handling funds
   
51.057   Billing period
   
51.058   Liability for payment
   
51.059   First billings
   
51.060   Delinquent accounts
   
51.061   Methods of collection of delinquent accounts
   
51.062   Scavenging curbside trash prohibited
Recyclable Materials
   
51.075   Unlawful removal of recyclable materials
   
51.076   Defined
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTAINER.  A metal or plastic can or a secured plastic trash bag of not
more than 32 gallons capacity having a tight-fitting cover and so equipped with
handles that it may be lifted and carried by one person, or, in the
alternative, a CONTAINER shall mean a gas or electric incinerator.
   GARBAGE.  The waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food, whether for humans or for animals, and of waste from the
handling, storage and sale of food materials.
   NATURAL DEBRIS.  Leaves, trees and tree limbs of large bulk, accumulating
from natural processes.
   REFUSE.  All trash, combustible or not, including, but not limited to,
paper, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, furniture, bedding, metals,
cans, small quantities of dirt, rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery,
ashes and the residue from fires and other mineral waste, but shall not include
natural debris, and shall not include earth and waste from building operations,
nor solid waste resulting from industrial processes and manufacturing
operations.
(Prior Code, § 10-1)
§ 51.002  DISPOSAL IN SECURE TRASH BAG OR CONTAINER REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city any
garbage or refuse except in a secure trash bag or proper container, except that
refuse which is too bulky to place in a container shall be disposed of as
natural debris.
(Prior Code, § 10-2)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003  WRAPPING OF GARBAGE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to place any garbage in any container unless the same
shall be wrapped in a paper wrapping or bag.
(Prior Code, § 10-3)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004  DISPOSAL OF NATURAL DEBRIS, BULKY REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city any
natural debris or refuse too bulky to place in containers, except on or
immediately adjacent to a public street or alley preparatory to having the
material collected and disposed of by the city, or in a lawfully established
dump or except upon a special permit having been issued after application to
the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 10-4)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005  COMMERCIAL ACCUMULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be lawful in the commercial areas of the city to dispose of
refuse and natural debris, but not garbage, in trash bins, which shall consist
of enclosed metal or wooden structures, except that material placed in trash
bins shall be placed therein in boxes or containers and shall not be loosely
thrown therein.
   (B)   The owner or operator of any business establishment in the city shall
build in an alley adjacent or reasonably close to his or her establishment an
enclosed metal or wooden structure for use as a trash bin, unless the amount of
trash, boxes and containers which the business establishment accumulates is
small enough in quantity and bulk to be contained within a container.
(Prior Code, § 10-5)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006  RESTRICTIONS ON VEHICLES TRANSPORTING REFUSE AND DEBRIS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect garbage, papers, trash
or other debris in the city unless his or her wagon, truck or cart has a
leakproof body or bed. The body or bed must be lined with tin, sheet iron or
other metal and welded or put together in a way that the bed or body will not
leak. The body or bed shall also be so constructed that a top can be fitted on
the body or bed of the wagon, truck or cart in a way as to prevent any trash,
garbage, paper or debris from falling off of the wagon, truck or cart and shall
be made of wood, tin, galvanized iron or heavy canvas.
   (B)   Every person engaged in collecting garbage, paper, trash or debris in
the city shall use due care to prevent it from blowing away from the body of
the truck, wagon or cart.
(Prior Code, § 10-6)  (Ord. passed 1-23-1939)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007  ACCUMULATIONS IN VIOLATION OF CHAPTER DECLARED NUISANCE; ABATEMENT BY
CITY; COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   Any mass or accumulation of garbage, refuse and natural debris other
than natural debris deposited by the wind and natural forces, on any property
within the city in violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of the property upon which the nuisance is found
shall be ordered by the Street Department and Building Inspector to abate the
same, not later than a date to be stated in a written notice ordering the
abatement.
   (C)   Upon the failure of the occupant to abate the nuisance, the Street
Department and Building Inspector may enter upon the premises and abate the
same, the costs of which shall be assessed against the owner of the property,
and, if not paid within 30 days after notification thereof, the city may impose
a lien upon the property for the expense and shall place the same upon the tax
duplicate in the office of the County Treasurer for collection as provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 10-13)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.008  EVIDENCE OF CHAPTER VIOLATIONS.
   The fact that garbage, refuse or natural debris is found on any property or
in any street in the city shall be prima facie evidence of the fact that the
person responsible for the deposit thereof, or the occupant of the property, is
guilty of the violation of this chapter so occurring.
(Prior Code, § 10-14)  Penalty, see §
51.999
OPEN BURNING
§ 51.020  BURNING RESTRICTIONS; DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
51.021 through
51.025, the nighttime hours shall be defined as from one-half hour after sunset
to one-half hour before sunrise.
   (B)   No open burning shall be allowed unless the City Fire Department has
been notified at least 24 hours in advance of the date, time and location of
the burning.
   (C)   No open burning of leaves shall be permitted.
   (D)   A person who openly burns any materials shall extinguish the fire if
the fire creates a nuisance or fire hazard.
   (E)   All fires must be attended to at all times during the burning until
the fires are completely extinguished and the burning shall be conducted only
during daylight hours and all fires shall be extinguished prior to sunset.
   (F)   Burning may not be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as high winds, temperature inversions or air stagnation.
   (G)   No asbestos-containing, materials are permitted to be burned.
   (H)   All burning must comply with all state and federal laws and, in
particular, any regulations promulgated by the Air Pollution Control Board.
(Prior Code, § 10-7)  (Ord. 9-1969 passed - -; Ord. 03-08, passed 4-28-2003) 
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021  INTENTION OF COUNCIL; GENERALLY.
   It is the express intention of the Common Council to protect the public from
the burning of rubbish within the city in two respects:
   (A)   The burning of rubbish during the nighttime, or in the dark hours of
the day, as hereinafter defined, in that the same constitutes a safety hazard
to vehicular traffic traveling on the streets of the city; and
   (B)   The burning of trash, as regulated in §§
51.022 through
51.025, which may constitute a factor injurious to public health within the
city limits by reason of polluting the air.
(Prior Code, § 10-8)  (Ord. 9-1969 passed - -)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022  BONFIRES AND OUTDOOR RUBBISH FIRES.
   (A)   Location restricted.  No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire
or rubbish fire or authorize any fire to be kindled or maintained on any
private land unless:
      (1)   The location is not less than 50 feet from any structure and
adequate provisions are made to prevent fire from spreading to within 50 feet
of any structure; or
      (2)   The fires is contained in an approved waste burning container
located safely not less than 15 feet from any structure.
   (B)   Chief may prohibit.  The Chief of the Fire Department may prohibit any
or all bonfires and outdoor rubbish fires when atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make the fires hazardous.
(Prior Code, § 10-9)  (Ord. 9-1969 passed - -)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.023  LEAVES, WEEDS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall burn leaves, rubbish or weeds in the city during the dark
hours of the day or nighttime, except that the Mayor may issue a proclamation
designating a cleanup week and other times and fix hours during the days of the
weeks and other times that it shall be lawful to burn leaves, rubbish or weeds.
(Prior Code, § 10-10)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.024  GARBAGE.
   For the purpose of this section, GARBAGE shall be defined as kitchen waste
and other waste matter and vegetable matter. No garbage within the meaning of
the definition of this section shall be burned at any time with in the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-11)  (Ord. 9-1969 passed - -)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.025  FIRE CHIEF’S RIGHT TO INSPECT ALL FIRES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department of the city shall have the right to inspect
places for the burning of trash and all fires and may designate the type of
containers in which rubbish may be burned, as well as the location of the same,
in order to prevent a possible fire hazard.
(Prior Code, § 10-12)  (Ord. 9-1969 passed - -)
SANITARY LANDFILL
§ 51.040  COMMERCIAL SCAVENGER SERVICES USING LANDFILL REQUIRED TO REGISTER.
   All commercial scavenger services now depositing refuse in the landfill of
the city shall register with the Clerk-Treasurer of the city prior to January
1, 1980. The registration shall include the number of scavenger units being
used by the scavenger service to deposit refuse in the city landfill; the
registration shall identify the trucks of the scavenger units and their
capacity.
(Prior Code, § 10-31)  (Ord. 79-30, passed 12-27-1979)
§ 51.041  INITIAL REGISTRATION FEE; TERM.
   Any existing county or new scavenger service which registers with the City
Clerk-Treasurer 30 days after the passage of this subchapter will be required
to pay a registration fee of $10. All services using the city landfill shall
register annually hereafter prior to January 1 of each ensuing year while this
subchapter is in effect.
(Prior Code, § 10-32)  (Ord. 79-30, passed 12-27-1979)
§ 51.042  OUT OF COUNTY REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   No out-of-county refuse shall be deposited in the city sanitary landfill.
(Prior Code, § 10-34)  (Ord. 79-30, passed 12-27-1979)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.043  CLOSURE OF THE CITY LANDFILL.
   Upon complete closure of the city sanitary landfill to the public for
purposes of disposing of garbage and refuse, then, and in that event, Ordinance
79-30 entitled “An Ordinance Establishing Requirements for Registration of
Commercial Scavenger Service using the Lebanon Sanitary Landfill and Setting
Charges Therefor” (§§
51.040 through
51.042) shall be, and the same is, repealed in its entirety; however, any
arrearages accumulated by commercial scavengers up to and including the closure
of the sanitary landfill shall still be due and owing to the city as previously
set forth by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-35)  (Ord. 84-19, passed 9-10-1984)
RESIDENTIAL SURCHARGE
§ 51.055  ESTABLISHED; GENERAL METHOD OF COLLECTION; TO WHOM APPLICABLE.
   (A)   (1)   The residential surcharge for the cost of solid waste disposal
per residential unit outlined in the city code shall be amended on an annual
basis to automatically read that amount of cost per residential garbage pickup
at a residence within the city covered by the contract specifications as
specified by the current waste collection contract between the city and the
then qualified and acting waste disposal contractor. It is the intent of this
subchapter that it include the full cost associated with the program of
residential waste disposal. The same shall be considered to include that amount
which the disposal contractor agrees to, via contract agreement with the city,
each year, to include any increase built into the contract specifications
billed upon the latest consumer price index outlined in the bid specifications
for the original contract.
      (2)   The residential surcharge shall be collected through the billing
department of the city utilities and the collections shall be retrieved and
remitted monthly to the Clerk-Treasurer of the city. The charge shall be paid
by each customer of the City Utility Department but in no event shall the
charge appear more than one time on the customer’s bill. In the event there is
a residential complex which is served through one meter, then the monthly
charge shall be increased by the number of units in the complex if the
residents receive no other billing from city utilities.
   (B)   Those individuals qualifying for project SAFE shall not be required to
pay the residential surcharge set out above.
   (C)   Customers of commercial scavenger services who are not using the
services of the City Sanitation Department shall not be required to pay the
residential surcharge set out above. Those customers shall be identified by the
commercial scavenger services.
   (D)   Those customers of the City Utilities Department who are outside the
city limits shall not be required to pay the residential surcharge set out
above.
(Prior Code, § 10-41)  (Ord. 80-25, passed 12-8-1980; Ord. 82-4, passed 1-25-
1982; Ord. 84-19, passed 9-10-1984; Ord. 85-11, passed 10-28-1985; Ord. 90-18,
passed 10-8-1990)
§ 51.056  MANNER OF HANDLING FUNDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer, upon receiving the funds set out in §
51.055(A) of the city code, shall record the receipts thereof and disbursements
therefrom in a manner to validate that the expenditures thereof are used
exclusively for the satisfaction of the agreement then in effect for garbage
and trash collection between the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city
and the contractor providing the service to the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-42)  (Ord. 80-25, passed 12-8-1980; Ord. 84-19, passed 9-10-
1984)
§ 51.057  BILLING PERIOD.
   Charges for solid waste disposal service shall be prepared and billed by the
city along with the bills for water service and shall be payable at the same
time as the water bills.
(Prior Code, § 10-43)  (Ord. 79-4, passed 3-12-1979; Ord. 80-25, passed 12-8-
1980)
§ 51.058  LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT.
   The charges for solid waste disposal service shall be billed to the person
being billed for water service unless, by contract with the utility, another
person assumes the responsibility. If a tenant is billed, the owner shall in no
way be relieved of liability in the event payment is not made by the tenant as
herein required. The owner shall have the right to examine the city’s
collection records to ascertain whether the charges have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-44)  (Ord. 79-4, passed 3-12-1979; Ord. 80-25, passed 12-8-
1980)
§ 51.059  FIRST BILLINGS.
   The charges and surcharges fixed in this subchapter shall be extended to and
cover any additional premises hereafter served without the need for any hearing
or notice. If the first billing to a new customer covers a period other than a
full billing month, then the solid waste disposal charges for the billing shall
be made in keeping with standard practice in the water utility. Subsequent
solid waste disposal service billings shall be for periods coinciding with the
billing periods for water service. If the charges and/or surcharges are
changed, the first billing after the change may also be for a period other than
a full billing month in order to keep the solid waste disposal billing period
coincident with the water billing periods.
(Prior Code, § 10-45)  (Ord. 79-4, passed 3-12-1979; Ord. 80-25, passed 12-8-
1980)
§ 51.060  DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Charges for service levied pursuant to this subchapter shall be due and
payable on or before the due dates shown on the bills. Any service charge not
paid by the due date (approximately 15 days after the bill is rendered) shall
be considered delinquent. The delinquent charge together with any applied
penalty shall be collectible as hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 10-46)  (Ord. 79-4, passed 3-12-1979; Ord. 80-25, passed 12-8-
1980)
§ 51.061  METHODS OF COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Collection through tax duplicate.  As provided by the statutes of the
state, delinquent service charges may be made a lien against the property
served through certification to the Auditor and the Recorder of the county. In
these cases, the delinquent service charges, together with the mandatory
penalty of 10%, shall be placed on the tax duplicate and be collected in the
same manner as regular taxes and assessments are collected.
   (B)   Collection through court actions.  In addition to the foregoing
remedies, the city shall have the right to bring a civil action to recover any
delinquent charges together with a penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney’s
fee. It shall also have the right, as provided by the statutes of the state, to
foreclose any lien established under the provisions of division (A), above,
with recovery of the charge, a penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney’s fee.
(Prior Code, § 10-47)  (Ord. 79-4, passed 3-12-1979; Ord. 80-25, passed 12-8-
1980)
§ 51.062  SCAVENGING CURBSIDE TRASH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Control of curbside trash.  When curbside trash is placed for
collection, within the corporate boundaries of the city, the trash then becomes
subject to the control of the city.
   (B)   Scavenging prohibited.  After curbside trash is placed for collection,
only the property owner or occupant or the authorized personnel collecting
curbside trash for the city shall be permitted to take possession of the trash
from curbside collection location.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS
§ 51.075  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Prohibited.  It shall hereinafter be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to collect, obtain, possess or pick up or remove from any properly
designated receptacle, any designated recyclable items placed for collection in
front of a residence, in designated receptacles therefor, as part of the city’s
recycling program.
(Prior Code, § 10-61)
   (B)   Control of recyclables.  When recyclables are placed at curb side for
recyclables collection, within the corporate boundaries of the city, the
recyclables then become subject to the control of the city.
   (C)   Scavenging prohibited.  After recyclables are placed at curbside for
recyclable collection, only the property owner or occupant or the authorized
personnel collecting for the city shall be permitted to take possession of the
recyclables from curbside. All other persons are prohibited from scavenging and
taking recyclables from curbside collection location.
(Ord. 88-7, passed 6-27-1988)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.076  DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this particular subchapter, RECYCLABLE MATERIALS shall
be defined by the Common Council of the city as consisting of glass, aluminum
and paper categories within a properly designated receptacle provided by the
city’s garbage collection contractor, at no expense to the city. The Common
Council of the city may, from time to time, designate other classes of
recyclable materials in addition to the three categories herein established.
(Prior Code, § 10-62)  (Ord. 88-7, passed 6-27-1988)
§ 51.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.  Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Open burning.  Any violation of §
51.020 shall constitute a violation punishable by a fine of not more than $25.
   (C)   Scavenging of curbside trash.
      (1)   A person violating provisions of §
51.062 may be served by an authorized enforcement person with a notice of
violation. The person upon whom a notice of violation is served may admit
liability to the violation as provided in the above section and pay a civil
penalty of $50 directly to the city.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the authorized enforcement person, the
violation is so substantial as to warrant a more severe penalty, the authorized
enforcement person issue a notice of violation and citation to appear in the
City Court for determination of the alleged violation of §
51.062.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person found in violation
of the provisions of §
51.062 shall be fined.
   (D)   Unlawful removal of recyclable materials.
      (1)   A person violating provisions of §
51.075 may be served by an authorized enforcement person with a notice of
violation. The person upon whom a notice of violation is served may admit
liability to the violation as provided in the above section and pay a civil
penalty of $50 directly to the city.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the authorized enforcement person, the
violation is so substantial as to warrant a more severe penalty, the authorized
enforcement person issue a notice of violation and citation to appear in the
City Court for determination of the alleged violation of §
51.075.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided herein, and person found in violation
of the provisions of §
51.075 shall be fined.
(Prior Code, § 10-63)
(Ord. 88-7, passed 6-27-1988; Ord. 03-08, passed 4-28-2003)
CHAPTER 52:  UTILITY BOARD
Section
   
52.01   Created
   
52.02   Qualification of members
   
52.03   Compensation
   
52.04   Appointment; terms of members
   
52.05   Filling of vacancies
   
52.06   Powers; duties
   
52.07   Exclusive right to provide services
§ 52.01  CREATED.
   A board, which is to be known as the Lebanon Utility Service Board,
consisting of five members, is hereby created, which Board shall operate and
manage the city municipal utilities.
(Prior Code, § 25-14)  (Ord. passed 3-11-1963)
§ 52.02  QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the Board created by this chapter shall be resident
householders of the city. No more than a majority of the Board shall be members
of the same political party.
(Prior Code, § 25-15)  (Ord. passed 3-11-1963)
§ 52.03  COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of each of the members of the Board created by this chapter
shall be $5,000 per year, and shall be paid as follows. The first quarter of
each member’s salary shall be paid on March 30; the second quarter on June 30;
the third quarter on September 30; and the remaining quarter on December 30 of
each year. Each quarterly payment shall be pro-rated as follows: electric 31%;
water 31%; wastewater 31%; and telecom 7%.
(Prior Code, § 25-16)  (Ord. 15-04, passed 2-23-2015)
§ 52.04  APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   All members of the Board created by this chapter shall be appointed
pursuant to the terms of I.C. 8-1.5-3-1 et seq. and amendments thereto; the
majority members of the Utility Board shall be appointed by the Mayor and the
minority members of the Utility Board shall be appointed by the Common Council;
the Mayor shall appoint to the vacancies which occur on the Board for the terms
expiring on November 30 and the Common Council shall appoint the members to the
vacancies which occur on the Board on April 1. Their terms of office shall be
for four years. Upon the expiration of the term of any member of the Board, his
or her successor shall be appointed for a term of four years as above set out.
   (B)   All members of the Board shall hold office for the term for which
appointed, as hereinbefore provided and until their successors are duly
appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 25-17)  (Ord. passed 3-11-1963; Ord. 77-1, passed 1-24-1977)
§ 52.05  FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   All vacancies in the membership of the Board created by this chapter shall
be filled for the unexpired term of the vacating member by appointment by the
Common Council of the city.
(Prior Code, § 25-18)  (Ord. passed 3-11-1963)
§ 52.06  POWERS; DUTIES.
   The Board created by this chapter shall have all the power, authorities and
duties conferred upon the Board by law, it hereby being contemplated that,
among the powers conferred upon the Board by statute, there is also included
the power to employ legal counsel to represent and advise the Board, at
compensation as shall be determined by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 25-19)  (Ord. passed 3-11-1963)
§ 52.07  EXCLUSIVE RIGHT TO PROVIDE SERVICES.
   The Board has the exclusive right to provide sewer services to customers
within a four-mile area outside the boundaries of the city, as may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 2014-03, passed 2-27-2014)
CHAPTER 53:  ELECTRIC UTILITY
Section
   
53.01   Joint electric utility agency authorized
   
53.02   Net energy metering
   
53.03   Rates
   
53.04   Measurement of energy
   
53.05   Character of service
   
53.06   Measurement of maximum load energy
   
53.07   Adjustments
   
53.08   Terms of payment for service; collection charge
   
53.09   Terms and conditions of rendering service
   
53.10   Rules and regulations for curtailment of electric service
   
Appendix A:  Rate adjustment
§ 53.01  JOINT ELECTRIC UTILITY AGENCY AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Based upon its obligations to serve its customers, such advice and
considerations, the city by this section hereby finds and determines that it is
in its best interest to join with other municipalities in the state to create a
joint agency under and pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 8-1-2.2 for the
purpose of undertaking the planning, financing, ownership and operation of a
project or projects to supply electric power and energy for the needs of the
participating municipalities.
   (B)   The names of the municipalities proposed to be initial members of the
joint agency are Anderson, Crawfordsville, Flora, Greendale, Greenfield,
Lawrenceburg, Lebanon, Logansport, Peru, Richmond and Tipton, Indiana.
   (C)   The city is authorized pursuant to this section to enter into a
contract (the “contract”) substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit
A, a copy of which is available in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, for the
creation of a joint agency with one or more of the municipalities hereinabove
named, and with other municipalities subsequently becoming a member of the
joint agency pursuant to the contract, and after execution thereof cause notice
of the execution of the contract to be given to the Mayor of the city.
(Prior Code, § 25-30)  (Ord. 80-11, passed 5-12-1980)
§ 53.02  NET ENERGY METERING.
   (A)   The city encourages interested citizens and businesses to invest in
renewable electric energy generation systems and enter into a net metering
arrangement with the municipal electric utility of the city.
   (B)   (1)   Eligible net metering customers include residential, commercial
and industrial customers in good standing that own or operate a solar, wind,
biomass, geothermal, or hydroelectric generating facility that:
         (a)   Has a nameplate capacity less than or equal to ten kilowatts
(kw);
         (b)   Is located on the customer’s premises and is operated by the
customer; and
         (c)   Is used primarily to offset all power to the customer’s own
electricity requirements.
      (2)   The electric utility shall limit the aggregate amount of net
metering facility nameplate capacity from all eligible net metering customers
to 0.1% of the utilities’ most recent summer peak load.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   The electric utility shall measure the difference between
the amount of energy delivered by the utility to the eligible net metering
customer and the amount of energy generated by the eligible net metering
customer and delivered to the utility.
         (b)   If the eligible net metering customer generates more energy that
it consumes in a month, the customer shall receive a bill credit from the
utility for the amount of surplus energy generated.
         (c)   The utility shall not purchase or wheel power produced by an
eligible net metering customer’s facility.
      (2)   The net metering tariff shall be adopted as the terms and
conditions under which the utility will offer net metering to eligible net
metering customers, which shall become effective upon approval by the State
Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC).
      (3)   The utility shall enter into an interconnection agreement with the
eligible net metering customer which incorporates technical interconnection
requirements and does not conflict with these provisions before the net
metering facility may be interconnected with the utility system.
(Prior Code, § 25-31)  (Ord. 09-05, passed - -)
§ 53.03  RATES.
   The rates and charges for the services rendered by the municipal electric
utility are hereby fixed as
follows.
   (A)   Rate RS electric residential service.
      (1)   Availability.  Available through one meter for residential service,
including lighting, household appliances, refrigeration, cooking, water
heating, space heating and small motors not exceeding three horsepower
individual capacity.
      (2)   Character of service.  Alternating current, 60 Hertz, single phase
at a voltage of approximately 120 volts two-wire or 120/240 volts three-wire.
      (3)   Rate (subject to the provisions of Appendices A and B).
 
Customer charge per month $8
First 300 KWH per month   $0.0966 per KWH
Next 700 KWH per month    $0.0907 per KWH
Over 1,000 KWH per month  $0.0831 per KWH
 
      (4)   Minimum charge.  The minimum monthly charge shall be the customer
charge.
   (B)   Rate CS electric commercial service.
      (1)   Availability.
         (a)   Available to any customer for light and/or power purposes whose
maximum load requirements do not exceed 50 kilowatts. The customer must be
located on or adjacent to an electric distribution line of the utility which is
adequate and suitable for supplying the service required.
         (b)   The availability of this schedule to polyphase customers is in
the process of elimination and is withdrawn except for polyphase customers
contracting for service hereunder prior to September 4, 1985, and will not be
applicable to any future polyphase customers. If service hereunder is at any
time discontinued at the customer’s option, this schedule shall not again be
available.
      (2)   Character of service.  Alternating current, 60 Hertz, single phase
at a voltage of approximately 120/240 volts and polyphase at one of the
following voltages: 120/240 volts four-wire Delta; 240 volts three-wire Delta;
480 volts three-wire Delta; 120/208 volts four-wire Wye; or 277/480 volts four-
wire Wye, where available.
      (3)   Rate (subject to the provisions of Appendices A and B).
 
                          Single Phase    Polyphase
Customer charge per month $15.50          $35
First 500 KWH per month   $0.1098 per KWH $0.1123 per KWH
Next 1,000 KWH per month  $0.0989 per KWH $0.1016 per KWH
Next 1,000 KWH per month  $0.0901 per KWH $0.0925 per KWH
Over 2,500 KWH per month  $0.0863 per KWH $0.0889 per KWH
 
      (4)   Minimum charge.  The minimum monthly charge shall be the customer
charge.
   (C)   Rate MS electric municipal service.
      (1)   Availability.  Available to any metered municipal customer for
light and/or power purposes. The customer must be located on or adjacent to an
electric distribution line of the utility which is adequate and suitable for
supplying the service required.
      (2)   Character of service.  Alternating current, 60 Hertz, single phase
at a voltage of approximately 120/240 volts and polyphase at one of the
following voltages: 120/240 volts four-wire Delta; 240 volts three-wire Delta;
480 volts three-wire Delta; 120/208 volts four-wire Wye; or 277/480 volts four-
wire Wye, where available.
      (3)   Rate (subject to the provisions of Appendices A and B).
 
Customer charge per month $15.50
All KWH used per month    $0.0798 per KWH
 
      (4)   Minimum charge.  The minimum monthly charge shall be the customer
charge.
   (D)   Rate SGP small general power service.
      (1)   Availability.  Available to any customer for light and/or power
purposes.
      (2)   Character of service.  Alternating current, 60 Hertz, at any
standard polyphase voltage supplied by utility in the locality for which the
service is requested.
      (3)   Rate (subject to the provisions of Appendices A and B).
 
Customer charge per month $60
First 500 KWH per month   $0.1341 per KWH
Next 2,000 KWH per month  $0.1200 per KWH
Next 2,500 KWH per month  $0.1002 per KWH
Next 5,000 KWH per month  $0.0918 per KWH
Over 10,000 KWH per month $0.0870 per KWH
 
      (4)   Minimum charge.  The minimum monthly charge shall be the customer
charge.
      (5)   Metering adjustment.  If service is metered at a voltage greater
than 480 volts, the energy measurements shall be decreased by 1.5% to convert
the measurements to the equivalent of metering at the utility’s secondary
voltage.
   (E)   Rate PPL electric primary power and light service.
      (1)   Availability.  Available for any customer contracting for a
specified capacity of not less than 50 kilovolt-amperes. The applicant must
agree to a one-year term of service and must be located adjacent to an electric
transmission line of the utility that is adequate and suitable for supplying
the service required.
      (2)   Character of service.  Alternating current, 60 Hertz, at any
standard polyphase voltage supplied by utility in the locality for which the
service is requested.
      (3)   Rate (subject to the provisions of Appendices A and B).
 
Customer charge (monthly)                              $100
Maximum load charge (monthly)
   Each KVA of billing maximum load                 $17.64 per KVA
Energy charge (in addition to the maximum load charge)
   First 300 hours use of billing maximum load      $0.0363 per KWH
   Over 300 hours use of billing maximum load       $0.0315 per KWH
 
      (4)   Measurement of maximum load and energy.
         (a)   Maximum load shall be measured by suitable instruments provided
by the utility and in any month the maximum load expressed in kilovolt-amperes
shall be the average number of kilowatts in the 30-minute interval in the month
during which the energy metered is greater than in any other 30- minute
interval in the month, divided by the average lagging power factor (expressed
as a decimal) calculated for the month. For billing purposes, the billing
maximum load shall be the greater of the maximum load occurring during the
month or 50 KVA. Energy shall be measured by suitable integrating instruments
provided by the utility.
         (b)   If service is metered at a voltage of approximately 480 volts or
lower, the maximum load measurements shall be increased by 1% and the energy
measurements shall be increased by 1.5% to convert the measurements to the
equivalent of metering at the utility’s primary voltage.
      (5)   Minimum charge.  The minimum monthly charge shall be the maximum
load charge.
   (F)   Rate OL outdoor lighting service.
      (1)   Availability.  Available only for continuous year-round service for
outdoor lighting to any residential, farm, commercial or industrial customer
located adjacent to an electric distribution line of the utility.
      (2)   Character of service.  Outdoor lighting service using lamps
available under this schedule.
      (3)   Rate (subject to the provisions of Appendices A and B).
Type of lamp              Rate
   175 watt mercury vap   $5.12 per lamp per month
   250 watt mercury vap   $6.22 per lamp per month
   400 watt mercury vap   $8.65 per lamp per month
   100 watt sodium vapo   $4.38 per lamp per month
   150 watt sodium vapo   $6.23 per lamp per month
   200 watt sodium vapo   $7.60 per lamp per month
   250 watt sodium vapo   $7.60 per lamp per month
   400 watt sodium vapo   $13.21 per lamp per month
Special contracts         Rate
   175 watt mercury vap   $4.89 per lamp per month
   250 watt mercury vap   $5.90 per lamp per month
Basic energy charge       $0.022097 per KWH
Pole rental               Rate
   ESLFH                  $0.71 per month
   ESLFP                  $1.41 per month
When the utility is required to install a pole to provide customer with
outdoor lighting service, the customer shall be required to pay, in addition
to the above charges, $1.55 per month
 
      (4)   Hours of lighting. All lamps shall burn approximately one-half hour
after sunset until approximately one-half hour before sunrise each day in the
year, approximately 4,000 hours per annum.
   (G)   Rate SL public street lighting services (other than state highway
lighting services).
      (1)   Availability. Available for any standard overhead public street
lighting service.
      (2)   Character of service. Public street lighting service using lamps
available under this schedule.
      (3)   Rate (subject to the provisions of Appendices A and B).
Type of Lamp              Rate
   100 watt mercury vap   $5.81 per lamp per month
   175 watt mercury vap   $6.32 per lamp per month
   250 watt mercury vap   $7.36 per lamp per month
   100 watt sodium vapo   $5.18 per lamp per month
   150 watt sodium vapo   $7.36 per lamp per month
   200 watt sodium vapo   $8.98 per lamp per month
   250 watt sodium vapo   $8.98 per lamp per month
   400 watt sodium vapo   $15.61 per lamp per month
City of Ulen              Rate
   100 watt sodium vapo   $4.76 per lamp per month
   175 watt sodium vapo   $5.17 per lamp per month
Base energy charge        $0.022097 per KWH
Ulen lights               Rate
   Ulen lights 1          $5.22 per KWH
   Ulen lights 2          $5.67 per KWH
 
      (4)   Hours of lighting.  All lamps shall burn approximately one-half
hour after sunset until approximately one-half hour before sunrise each day in
the year, approximately 4,000 hours per annum.
   (H)   Special contracts; flat rates.
 
Customer                      Rate per Annum
E & W Star (sign)             $220
William Titus (arm extension) $61
William Titus (poles)         $51
Lebanon Bowling (sign)        $122
 
   (I)   Charges.
 
Description of charge       Charge
Bad check charge            $15
Reconnect/disconnect charge $20
Meter tampering charge      $20
Meter deposits (minimum)    $25 for rates RS and CS
After hours                 $35 Sunday and holidays
                            $25 Monday through Saturday
Penalty for late payment    3% of late payment amount
 
   (J)   Green power rider.
      (1)   Availability. Service under this division (J) (“green power rider”)
is available to all customers currently served by the utility. Customer
participation is completely voluntary.
      (2)   Character of service.GREEN POWER is electricity generated from
renewable sources including without limitation solar and wind. Green power
includes the purchase of renewable energy certificates from the above described
sources. This rider shall provide customers with the option to designate a
specific percentage of their energy consumption as associated with green power.
Customers using this rider will pay a surcharge as set forth below for energy
consumption associated with renewable energy sources. All of the provisions and
charges of the current applicable rate, including rate tracker, will apply to
the customer’s total energy usage.
      (3)   Green power rate and volumes. Customers opting to purchase green
power energy will pay an additional $0.01 per kWh per month. All customers
selecting green power shall designate 25%, 50%, 75% or 100% of the customer’s
monthly energy usage. Pricing under this rider is in addition to the charges
billed for service on the customer’s regular tariff for service.
      (4)   Terms and conditions.
         (a)   The customer shall enter into a service agreement with the
utility (the green power program registration agreement or “agreement”) that
shall specify the applicable percentage of green power energy consumption to be
purchased monthly by the customer.
         (b)   Service under this rider may be limited at the sole discretion
of the utility, based on the expected amount of renewable energy available,
average monthly energy usage of the customer, bill payment and collection
histories.
         (c)   The customer may sign up for the purchase of green power at any
time and service will become effective at the beginning of the next full
billing period, at which pont the customer will be charged for the total amount
of green power purchased.
         (d)   The customer may cancel service under this rider at any time.
However, any change in service will only become effective at the beginning of
the next full billing period. The charge for green power will not be prorated
in the billing period in which the customer cancels the agreement.
         (e)   The utility will use funds collected from customers who have
agreed to purchase energy under the rider to purchase energy from renewable
sources such as wind and solar powered energy.
         (f)   The utility reserves the right to terminate the rider, revise
the rate per Kwh per month or make other changes to the rider upon obtaining
the necessary governmental approvals.
   (K)   Economic development rider.
      (1)   Availability. This rider is available to a qualifying customer (as
defined herein) to encourage large power users to expand or create new
operations within the utility's service territory.
      (2)   Qualifications.
         (a)   A "qualifying customer" is a new or existing non-residential
customer in the utility's service territory that is establishing new operations
or expanding existing operations such that the new or expanded operations will
result in new or additional demand of at least one MW (1,000 kW) at one
delivery point (the "qualifying demand") and the new or expanded operations has
involved a capital investment of at least $1,000,000 within the utility's
service territory.
         (b)   For a qualifying customer that is expanding operations,
qualifying demand is measured from the average monthly peak demand for the 12
months immediately preceding the effective date of the service application. For
a qualifying customer that is establishing new operations, qualifying demand is
measured from zero.
         (c)   A qualifying customer is not a customer: (1) with "new" demand
that results from a change in ownership of an existing establishment without
qualifying new load; (2) renewing service following interruptions such as
equipment failure, temporary plant shutdown, strike, economic conditions, or
natural disaster; or (3) that has shifted its load from one operation or
customer to another within the utility's service territory. The utility may
determine exclusively, without recourse by the customer, whether an event has
occurred that would prevent a customer from being a qualifying customer.
      (3)   Rate incentive.
         (a)   Beginning with the effective date indicated in the service
application submitted by the qualifying customer, utility will receive a credit
on its wholesale bill for the qualifying new load. The incentive amount
received by utility from the Indiana Municipal Power Agency for such load will
be passed in full to qualifying customers. For reference purposes, the discount
to the qualifying customer's wholesale cost for qualifying new load will be
calculated according to the following schedule:
 
Months 1-12  20%
Months 13-24 15%
Months 25-36 10%
Months 37-48 10%
Months 49-60 5%
 
         (b)   The qualifying customer must meet the minimum qualifying demand
during each month of the incentive period (i.e., months one through 60, as
designated above). Failure to meet the minimum qualifying demand in a
particular month will result in 0% reduction for that month.
      (4)   Terms and conditions.
         (a)   The qualifying customer must submit a service application to the
utility specifying: (1) a description of the amount and nature of the new load;
(2) the basis on which the qualifying customer meets the requirements of this
rider; (3) the qualifying customer's desired effective date; and (4) such other
information as required by the utility.
         (b)   This rider will terminate on the same date that IMPA's economic
development rider terminates, except that any qualifying customer receiving the
rate incentive at the time of the rider's termination may continue receiving
the incentive for the remainder of the applicable incentive period (as long it
continues to meet the rider's requirements)
      (5)   Applicable rate schedules. This rider is applicable to the
commercial service rate.
(Prior Code, § 25-32)  (Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-12-2012; Ord. 2012-11, passed 9-
24-2012; Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-23-2015; Ord. 2017-11, 8-28-2017; Ord. 2018-02,
passed 2-12-2018)
§ 53.04  MEASUREMENT OF ENERGY.
   Energy supplied under the schedule of §
53.03 shall be measured by a suitable integrating instrument.
(Prior Code, § 25-33)
§ 53.05  CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   The character of the service furnished pursuant to the rate schedule of §
53.03 shall be alternating current having a frequency of 60 cycles and
furnished in accordance with the provisions set forth in §§
53.06 through
53.09.
(Prior Code, § 25-38)  (Ord. 4-70, passed 4-27-1970)
§ 53.06  MEASUREMENT OF MAXIMUM LOAD ENERGY.
   The maximum load for purpose of the rate schedule of §
53.03 shall be measured by suitable indicating or recording instruments and in
any month the maximum load shall be the average number of kilowatts in the 30-
minute interval during which the energy metered is greater than in any other
30- minute interval in the month. When energy is metered at more than one meter
(permitted, in the case of secondary metering, under § 53.09(A)), the maximum
loads, separately determined for each meter, shall be added together for
determining the maximum load for the month. Energy shall be measured by
suitable integrating instruments. Service under the schedule will normally be
metered at a primary voltage which is designated as a standard voltage of
approximately 2,300 volts, or higher.
(Prior Code, § 25-39)  (Ord. 4-70, passed 4-27-1970)
§ 53.07  ADJUSTMENTS.
   Maximum load and energy measurements, for service under the rate schedule of
§
53.03, and the charges derived therefrom, are subject to adjustment for the
following.
   (A)   Metering at a secondary voltage.  Service hereunder may be metered at
a secondary voltage, which is designated as a standard voltage of approximately
460 volts or lower, in which event, before applying any other adjustments or
computing the charges, the maximum load and energy measurements shall each be
increased by 3% to convert to the equivalent of service metered at a primary
voltage.
   (B)   Power factor.
      (1)   The monthly maximum load will be adjusted for monthly average
lagging power factor to convert to billing maximum load in accordance with the
following formula:
 
Billing maximum load = Maximum load x 80
                       Average lagging power factor (%)
 
      (2)   The electric utility will determine the monthly average lagging
power factor (used in the above formula) by the application of one of the
following methods:
         (a)   Assume the monthly average lagging power factor to be 80%;
         (b)   Install suitable instruments for determining the monthly average
lagging power factor; or
         (c)   Estimate the monthly average lagging power factor, where the
electric utility meters the lighting and power services separately of either or
both services by assuming 100% power factor for the lighting service, and 80%
lagging power factor for the power service.
   (C)   Equipment supplied by customer.  A credit of 10% will be made to the
monthly maximum load charge when the customer takes service at the point of
connection of his or her service lines with an available transmission or
distribution line of the electric utility which has a voltage of approximately
2,300 volts or higher and which in the judgment of the utility is adequate and
suitable to serve the contracted capacity, provided the customer furnishes,
installs and maintains, at his or her own expense, the complete substation
structure and equipment including switches and protective equipment,
transformers and other apparatus, any or all of which is necessary for the
customer to take service at the point of connection.
   (D)   Load factor.  When the number of kilowatt hours billed in any month
exceeds the product of the billing maximum load for that month multiplied by
360, an amount equal to three mills ($0.003) times the number of kilowatt hours
in excess of the product will be deducted from the energy charge.
(Prior Code, § 25-40)  (Ord. 4-70, passed 4-27-1970)
§ 53.08  TERMS OF PAYMENT FOR SERVICE; COLLECTION CHARGE.
   Bills for electric utility service shall be rendered and due monthly. If
paid within 15 days from the date due thereof as stated in the bill, the net
bill shall be the amount to be paid. If not paid within 15 days from the due
date thereof as stated in the bill, the gross bill, which includes the
collection charge, shall be the amount to be paid. When the fifteenth day falls
on Sunday or any other legal holiday, the first business day thereafter shall
be added to the 15-day period. The late fee when due, shall be payable as
follows:
   (A)   On the first $3 or less of net billing, 10%; and
   (B)   On the next $300 of net billing, 3%.
(Prior Code, § 25-43)  (Ord. 4-70, passed 4-27-1970)
§ 53.09  TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF RENDERING SERVICE.
   The following terms and conditions shall apply to service rendered by the
electric utility.
   (A)   All service metered at a primary voltage, as designated in this
chapter, shall be furnished through one meter. All services metered at a
secondary voltage, as designated in this chapter, may be furnished through one
meter, or through not more than one meter for the lighting service and one
meter for the power service, unless it is required by law to install a separate
service for exit lighting, in which case an additional meter will be installed
for the exit lighting.
   (B)   Except in cases where the customer owns the substation and
transformation equipment as provided for in §
53.07(C), the electric utility will supply and maintain at a single location
the complete substation equipment that is necessary in order to make one
transformation to a standard voltage from the voltage of the available
transmission or distribution line as the utility deems adequate and suitable to
serve the capacity contracted for. Not more than one transformation will be
installed at the utility’s expense for any customer; provided, however, that
where the voltage of the load side of this transformation is approximately 460
or 230 volts and the customer requires approximately 115 volts two- wire (or
115 to 230 volts three-wire) for lighting purposes, the utility will supply the
transformation to obtain lighting voltage. Where service is metered at a
primary voltage and the customer desires and requests transformation to more
than one standard voltage, or service of a standard voltage at more than one
location within his or her premises, the utility will, at its option, furnish
and maintain additional transformation equipment and those interconnecting
lines as may be necessary; provided, however, that the customer shall reimburse
the utility for the amount of the cost of furnishing the entire facilities
which is in excess of the cost of furnishing one transformation for the entire
service, as provided for above. The right and title to all equipment so
furnished by the utility shall be and remain in the utility. Should the
customer require a nonstandard voltage, he or she shall at his or her own
expense furnish and maintain all transformers and protective equipment therefor
necessary in order to obtain the nonstandard voltage. The customer shall not be
entitled to any credit as a result of the ownership of the transformers and
equipment, unless the customer supplies all transformers and equipment for his
or her entire contracted capacity in accordance with the provisions of §
53.07(C).
   (C)   All wiring, poles, lines, wires and other electrical equipment and
apparatus located beyond the point of connection of the customer’s service
lines with the lines of the electric utility are considered the distribution
system of the customer and shall be furnished, owned and maintained by the
customer, except in the case of metering equipment and other equipment
incidental to the rendering of service, if any, that is furnished, owned and
maintained by the utility, and installed beyond the point of connection.
   (D)   In case a fire or other casualty renders the plant or premises of the
customer wholly unfit for the purposes of the customer’s business the minimum
charge specified shall be suspended until that time as the premises shall have
been reconstructed and reoccupied by the customer. In case a strike or lockout
causes the temporary suspension of the operation or business of the customer,
the minimum charge specified will be waived during the continuance of the
strike or lockout, but the customer shall be billed and be liable for the
payment, at the rates herein set out, for all electric energy actually used
during the period.
(Prior Code, § 25-44)  (Ord. 4-70, passed 4-27-1970)
§ 53.10  RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR CURTAILMENT OF ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   The electric curtailment rules for the municipal electric utility of
the city, as set forth hereinafter and made a part hereof, are hereby adopted
and approved insofar as they apply to electric distribution systems.
   (B)   The electric curtailment rules herein adopted and approved are hereby
authorized to be filed with the Public Service Commission of Indiana for
information purposes only, and so identified.
   (C)   Electric curtailment rules.
      (1)   Company load reduction during fuel shortages.  This step will be
taken by the utility when its fuel supplies are decreasing and the remaining
fuel supplies are sufficient in its option for not more than approximately 50
days’ operation of its generation facilities.
         (a)   Utility use of electric energy will be reduced in any way that
will not jeopardize essential operations.
         (b)   Fuel supply levels at the utility’s generating stations will
become a determinant in economic dispatch decisions in the effort to maintain a
reasonable supply of fuel at all generating stations.
         (c)   The utility will partially or fully terminate the availability
of electric energy under the surplus capacity provisions of rates for
industrial and commercial power service. This shall not apply to cooperative or
municipal utilities with generation.
      (2)   Customer voluntary load reduction during fuel shortages.  If fuel
supplies continue to decrease and the utility’s remaining fuel supply is
sufficient in its opinion for not more than 50 days’ operation of its
generating facilities, appeals to users will be made for the voluntary
curtailment of load. Efforts should be made to obtain a decrease in usage of
approximately 25% except that a lesser amount would be the goal for specific
customers if the 25% reduction would result in situations where health and
safety is not adequately protected.
         (a)   Public appeals will be made by the utility through appropriate
news media asking customers to reduce their use of electric energy by
approximately 25% because of the impending fuel shortage.
         (b)   Direct appeals will be made by the utility to major industrial
and commercial customers and to wholesale customers requesting them to shut off
nonessential loads, and curtail usage in an effort to obtain a 25% reduction.
      (3)   Mandatory load reduction during fuel shortages.  If fuel supplies
continue to decrease and the utility’s remaining fuel supply is sufficient in
its opinion for not more than 40 days’ operation of its generating facilities,
mandatory curtailment will commence pursuant to divisions (C)(4) through (C)
(12) below.
      (4)   Mandatory curtailment, limitation and priorities of service.  When
fuel supplies are sufficient for not more than 40 days’ operation of the
utility’s generating facilities or when for any reason sufficient amount of
electric power, in the judgment of the utility, are not available to the
company to meet all existing and reasonably anticipated demands for service or
to protect the integrity and stability of the system, the utility shall have
the right to restrict, limit or curtail electric service within any of its
systems so affected in accordance with any of the provisions of this rule.
      (5)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this rule, the following terms
shall have the following meanings.
         BASE MONTHLY CONSUMPTION.  The customer’s average billing month usage
based upon the three-month period in the prior 12 months which corresponds to
the billing month being curtailed and the immediately preceding and succeeding
months. Adjustments may be made for customers with changed circumstances that
have caused the prior year’s usage during the period to be nonrepresentative of
current usage during the period.
         COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS.  Customers engaged primarily in wholesale or
retail trade and services including clubs, institutions and local, state and
federal government agencies, except educational institutions.
         DISPENSABLE USES.
            1.   The following and similar types of uses of electric energy
shall be considered DISPENSABLE USES:
               a.   Outdoor flood and advertising lighting except for the
minimum level necessary to protect life and property and a single illuminated
sign identifying commercial facilities that are open after dark;
               b.   General lighting levels in stores and offices greater than
minimum functional levels;
               c.   Show window and display lighting;
               d.   Greater number of elevators operating in office buildings
during nonpeak hours than is necessary;
               e.   Parking lot lighting above minimum functional levels;
               f.   Energy use greater than that necessary to maintain a
temperature of no less than 78° during operation of cooling equipment and no
more than 65° during operation of heating equipment;
               g.   Greater than minimum work schedules, as for building
cleaning and maintenance, restocking and the like, which would require office
or industrial facilities to be illuminated, cooled or heated beyond normal
working hours;
               h.   Nighttime sports and recreational activities; and
               i.   Public museums, art galleries and historic buildings
requiring illumination, cooling or heating.
            2.   Any DISPENSABLE USE shall be provided the minimum amount of
electricity to protect and maintain the dispensable use facilities.
         HUMAN NEEDS CUSTOMERS.  Includes hospitals, medical centers, nursing
homes and customers where curtailment would adversely affect public health and
safety such as municipal fire departments, police departments, civil defense
and emergency Red Cross services, and any other facility whose use of electric
energy is vital to public health and safety as determined by the utility.
         INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS.  Customers who are engaged primarily in a
process that creates or changes raw or unfinished materials into another form
or product.
         LIVING QUARTERS.  As used in Service Priority Class II, shall mean
hotels, motels, dormitories and similar dwelling places.
         RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS.  Customers living in residential dwellings,
mobile homes, apartments or condominiums.
         SERVICE OBLIGATION.  The largest metered demand (peak demand for
customers served on industrial and commercial rates) in the previous 12 months.
If no such demand information is available, an estimate will be used determined
by dividing the KWH in the maximum usage month in the previous 12 months by 200
hours.
      (6)   Emergency curtailment without regard to priority.  The utility
reserves the right to order electric service curtailment without regard to the
priority of service when in its judgment the curtailment is required to
forestall imminent and irreparable injury to life, property or the electric
system. Curtailment may include interruption of selected circuits. A
curtailment pursuant to this rule shall not exceed 72 consecutive hours without
approval of the Public Service Commission of Indiana.
      (7)   Priority of service.  Priority of service, in the event of
mandatory curtailment, shall be as set forth below. The highest priority is
Service Priority Class I and the lowest priority of service is Service Priority
Class V.
 
Service Priority
Class
I     Human needs
II    Residential and living quarters
III   Commercial and industrial customers
IV    Schools, colleges, universities, and other educational institutions
V     Dispensable uses and surplus capacity power
 
      (8)   Mandatory curtailment procedure.
         (a)   Curtailment, unless pursuant to division (C)(6) above, shall
begin with Service Priority Class V and continue as necessary through Service
Priority Classes IV, III, II and I as follows:
            1.   When the utility’s fuel supply reaches 40 days, public notice,
by press release, shall be given to Service Priority Class V customers to fully
(100%) curtail the service;
            2.   When the utility’s fuel supply reaches 40 days, public notice
shall be given to:
               a.   Service Priority Class IV to curtail service to a service
level of not more than 50% of service obligation or base monthly consumption,
whichever is applicable as determined by the utility;
               b.   Service Priority Class III to curtail service to a service
level of not more than 75% of service obligation or base monthly consumption,
whichever is applicable as determined by the utility; and
               c.   Service Priority Class II to curtail service to a service
level of not more than 85% of service obligation or base monthly consumption,
whichever is applicable as determined by the utility.
            3.   When the utility’s fuel supply reaches 30 days, public notice
shall be given to:
               a.   Service Priority Class IV to curtail service fully to a
service level that is necessary to protect and maintain Service Priority Class
IV facilities;
               b.   Service Priority Class III to curtail service to a service
level of not more than 50% of service obligation or base monthly consumption,
whichever is applicable as determined by the utility; and
               c.   Service Priority Class II to curtail service to a service
level of not more than 75% of service obligation or base monthly consumption,
whichever is applicable as determined by the utility.
            4.   After Service Priority Classes IV, III and II are curtailed to
a level of not more than indicated in division (C)(8)(a)3. above of service
obligation or base monthly consumption, Service Priority Classes IV through II,
both inclusive, will be further curtailed by equal percentages until full
(100%) curtailment occurs.
            5.   After Service Priority Classes IV, III and II are in full
(100%) curtailment, curtailment shall commence in service Priority Class I as
necessary.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (C)(8)(a)1. above, the utility
will give notice of curtailment in the most effective manner possible and as
much in advance as possible with regard to the exigencies and the number of
customers to be notified. The curtailment shall be effective as of the time and
date specified in the notice.
      (9)   Curtailment by short-term service interruption.  In the event
mandatory curtailment is imposed, as above provided, the utility in addition
may employ, for not more than two hours’ duration at any one time, selective
short term service interruptions by operation on a rotational basis of
distribution switching equipment to effect the necessary curtailment in one or
more service priority classes.
      (10)   Restoration of service.  Service shall be restored in the reverse
order of the original curtailment.
      (11)   Penalty for noncompliance.  Customers failing to comply with the
specified curtailment for more than seven days will be subject to disconnection
for the duration of the emergency. Energy use by industrial and large
commercial customers in excess of that permitted under curtailment shall be
subject to a $0.10 per KWH penalty, in addition to normal billing charges, for
all electric energy taken in excess of mandatory curtailment limitations.
Penalty charges collected hereunder shall be segregated in a separate account,
and shall be applied to reduce the fuel cost adjustment charges of industrial
and large commercial customers who, during the existence of a fuel emergency,
have not used electric energy in excess of mandatory curtailment limitations.
      (12)   Applicability.  The terms and provisions of this rule shall
control notwithstanding any terms and provisions of rate schedules, general
rules and regulations of the utility or any contract or agreement between the
utility and any customer to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 25-45)  (Ord. 78-5, passed 2-16-1978)
APPENDIX A:  RATE ADJUSTMENT
   The rate adjustments shall be on the basis of a purchased power cost
adjustment tracking factor occasioned solely by changes in the cost of
purchased power and energy, in accordance with the Order of the State Utility
Regulatory Commission, approved December 13, 1989 in Cause No. 36835-S3 as
follows:
   Rate adjustments applicable to the below listed rate schedules as follows:
 
RS
CS (Single phase)
CS (Three phase)
MS                To be completed when final rates are approved
SGP
PPL
OL & SL
 
(Prior Code, § 25-32)  (Ord. 94-13, passed 11-14-1994)
CHAPTER 54:  WATER UTILITY
Section
Rates and Charges
   
54.01   Schedule generally
   
54.02   Minimum monthly charge
   
54.03   Public fire protection
   
54.04   Deferred payment charge
   
54.05   Temporary users
   
54.06   Railroads
   
54.07   Tapping fees
Water Conservation
   
54.20   Definitions
   
54.21   Application
   
54.22   Levels of conservation enumerated
   
54.23   Declaration of need for water conservation
   
54.24   Notices
   
54.25   Level 1, voluntary conservation
   
54.26   Level 2, restricted use
   
54.27   Level 3, prohibited use
   
54.28   Level 4, rationing
   
54.29   Exceptions to Level 4
   
54.30   Enforcement
Backflow and Cross-Connection Control
   
54.45   General policy
   
54.46   Definitions
   
54.47   Requirements
 
   
54.99   Penalty
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 54.01  SCHEDULE GENERALLY.
   There shall be and there are hereby established for the use of and services
rendered by the water works system of the City of Lebanon, the following rates
and charges, based upon the amount of water supplied during each monthly
billing period:
Consumption Per Month Rate Per 100 Cubic Feet
                      2018* 2019* 2020* 2021* 2022*
Consumption Per Month  Rate Per 100 Cubic Feet
                       2018* 2019* 2020* 2021* 2022*
First 500 cubic feet   $5.35 $5.87 $6.45 $7.09 $7.56
Next 1,000 cubic feet  $4.76 $5.23 $5.75 $6.32 $6.74
Next 2,000 cubic feet  $4.10 $4.50 $4.95 $5.44 $5.80
Next 4,000 cubic feet  $3.45 $3.79 $4.17 $4.58 $4.88
Next 8,000 cubic feet  $2.68 $2.94 $3.23 $3.55 $3.78
Next 15,500 cubic feet $2.13 $2.34 $2.57 $2.82 $3.01
* 2018 rates effective May 1, 2018
2019 and subsequent year's rates effective January 1
 
(Prior Code, § 25-62)  (Ord. passed 11-14-1910; Ord. passed 8-12-1957; Ord. 3-
70, passed 4-27-1970; Ord. 75-19, passed 1-12-1976; Ord. 76-4, passed 3-8-1976;
Ord. 78-24, passed 11-27-1978; Ord. 79-1, passed 1-3-1979; Ord. 79-18, passed
6-25-1979; Ord. 03-10, passed - -; Ord. 04-09, passed - -; Ord. 10-10, passed
6-28-2010; Ord. 18-06, passed 4-23-2018)
§ 54.02  MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGE.
   Each user shall pay a minimum monthly charge in accordance with the size of
the meter installed for which the user will be entitled to the quantity of
water set out in the §
54.01:
Minimum Charge Meter Size Cubic Feet Allowed Rate Per Month
                                             2018* 2019* 2020* 2021* 2022*
Minimum Charge   Cubic Feet Rate Per Month
Meter Size       Allowed    2018*     2019*     2020*     2021*     2022*
5/8 to 3/4-inch  300        $16.05    $17.61    $19.35    $21.27    $22.68
meter
1-inch meter     614        $32.18    $35.31    $38.81    $42.65    $45.48
1-1/4-inch meter 1,285      $64.12    $70.41    $77.39    $85.06    $90.71
1-1/2-inch meter 1,776      $85.67    $94.07    $103.41   $113.66   $121.21
2-inch meter     2,825      $128.68   $141.28   $155.34   $170.73   $182.05
3-inch meter     6,422      $257.16   $282.39   $310.60   $341.28   $363.79
4-inch meter     12,478     $427.76   $469.60   $516.34   $567.37   $604.57
6-inch meter     31,764     $855.17   $939.03   $1,031.93 $1,133.29 $1,208.35
8-inch meter     50,822     $1,261.11 $1,384.98 $1,521.73 $1,670.73 $1,781.99
* 2018 rates effective May 1, 2018
2019 and subsequent year's rates effective January 1
 
(Prior Code, § 25-63)  (Ord. passed 11-14-1910; Ord. passed 8-12-1957; Ord. 3-
70, passed 4-27-1970; Ord. 75-19, passed 1-12-1976; Ord. 76-4, passed 3-8-1976;
Ord. 78-24, passed 11-27-1978; Ord. 79-1, passed 1-3-1979; Ord. 79-18, passed
6-25-1979; Ord. 03-10, passed - -; Ord. 04-09, passed - -; Ord. 06-09, passed
5-8-2006 ; Ord. 10-10, passed 6-28-2010; Ord. 2013-12, passed 9-9-2013; Ord.
18-06, passed 4-23-2018)
§ 54.03  PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Public/private fire protection.
 
Public/Private Fire Protection  2018*   2019*   2020*   2021*   2022*
Hydrant rental - each per annum $546.47 $600.02 $659.42 $724.70 $772.53
* 2018 rates effective May 1, 2018
2019 and subsequent year's rates effective January 1
 
   (B)   Automatic sprinklers.
                Annual Rate
Connection Size 2018* 2019* 2020* 2021* 2022*
                 Annual Rate
Connection Size  2018*     2019*     2020*     2021*     2022*
5/8-inch meter   $6.99     $7.68     $8.44     $9.28     $9.89
3/4-inch meter   $10.00    $10.98    $12.07    $13.26    $14.14
1-inch meter     $17.94    $19.70    $21.65    $23.79    $25.36
1-1/4-inch meter $27.91    $30.65    $33.68    $37.01    $39.45
1-1/2-inch meter $40.22    $44.16    $48.53    $53.33    $56.85
2-inch meter     $71.48    $78.49    $86.26    $94.80    $101.06
3-inch meter     $160.78   $176.54   $194.02   $213.23   $227.30
4-inch meter     $285.87   $313.89   $344.97   $379.12   $404.14
6-inch meter     $643.20   $706.23   $776.15   $852.99   $909.29
8-inch meter     $1,143.46 $1,255.52 $1,379.82 $1,516.42 $1,615.50
10-inch meter    $1,786.67 $1,961.76 $2,155.97 $2,369.41 $2,525.79
12-inch meter    $2,572.72 $2,824.85 $3,104.51 $3,411.86 $3,637.04
* 2018 rates effective May 1, 2018
2019 and subsequent year's rates effective January 1
 
   (C)   Tapping fees. No connection to the city's water works system shall be
allowed until a permit is obtained and payment of availability fees, connection
fees, and inspection fees has been made to the city, or if applicable, payments
have been arranged in accordance with division (C)(5).
      (1)   AVAILABILITY FEE is the charge to a user for a new connection to or
additional water usage from an existing connection to the city's water works
system and is charged as a pro rata cost of construction of all water
distribution mains and appurtenances to serve the property of the connecting
user and is charged in return for the city making available to such user the
city's water supply system consisting of all facilities and operations
necessary to provide potable water to such user.
         (a)   The amount of the availability fee shall be as follows:
 
Residential User All Other Users
$2,000 per EDU   $2,000 per EDU
 
         (b)   Equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) is defined as the average use of
a single-family dwelling over one calendar year. EDU determinations for water
users other than single-family dwellings shall be determined in accordance with
327 IAC Article 8.
         (c)   Where a project charge or recoupment agreement charge has been
established prior to the date of this division, the project charge or
recoupment agreement charge shall apply. The cost of distribution systems
constructed after the date of this division by someone other than the city
under a written agreement with the city may be credited against the
availability fee. The decision to allow such credit and the amount of the
credit shall be made solely at the discretion of the city.
 
      (2)   CONNECTION FEE is the charge to a user for a new or additional
connection to the city's water works system and is charged the actual cost of
construction of all local and/or water service lines adequate to serve the
property of the connecting user. The connection fee shall be dependent on the
water meter size and shall include the actual cost of the meter and supplies
required for said connection.
      (3)   INSPECTION FEE is the charge to a user for a new or additional
connection to the city's water works system for the cost of inspecting said
connection to the water works. The inspection fee shall be as follows:
 
Residential User All Other Users
$50              $100
 
      (4)   REPAIR INSPECTION FEE is the charge to a user for inspecting a
needed repair or replacement of an existing water service line. The repair
inspection fee shall be as follows:
 
Residential User All Other Users
$50              $100
 
      (5)   Payment of the availability fee, the connection fee, and the
inspection fee shall be made at the following times:
         (a)   For new construction connections or additional water usage from
existing water connections requiring plat or plan approval, one-half of the
availability fee or $1,000 per EDU shall be paid at the time of signing the
record plat or detail plan approval, or conditional use approval. The remaining
one-half of the availability fee or $1,000 per EDU, the entire connection fee,
and the entire inspection fee shall be paid before the issuance of a building
permit;
         (b)   For all existing connections with additional water usage not
requiring plat or plan approval, the availability fee, the connection fee, and
the inspection fee shall be paid in full before the additional usage is
provided for by the city's water system;
         (c)   For all users repairing or replacing a water service line or
existing water connections with no additional water usage, the repair
inspection fee shall be paid in full before issuance for a repair permit.
(Prior Code, § 25-64)  (Ord. passed 11-14-1910; Ord. passed 8-12-1957; Ord. 3-
70, passed 4-27-1970; Ord. 75-19, passed 1-12-1976; Ord. 76-4, passed 3-8-1976;
Ord. 78-24, passed 11-27-1978; Ord. 79-1, passed 1-3-1979; Ord. 79-18, passed
6-25-1979; Ord. 03-10, passed - -; Ord. 04-09, passed - -; Ord. 09-06, passed
8-24-2009; Ord. 10-10, passed 6-28-2010; Ord. 18-06, passed 4-23-2018)
§ 54.04  DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGE.
   All bills for water service not paid within 15 days from the due date
thereof shall, as stated in those bills, be subject to a collection of a late
fee charge of 3% on the outstanding unpaid balance.
(Prior Code, § 25-65)  (Ord. passed 11-14-1910; Ord. passed 8-12-1957; Ord. 3-
70, passed 4-27-1970; Ord. 75-19, passed 1-12-1976; Ord. 76-4, passed 3-8-1976;
Ord. 78-24, passed 11-27-1978; Ord. 99-8, passed 4-12-1999)
§ 54.05  TEMPORARY USERS.
   Water furnished to temporary users, such as contractors, circuses and the
like, shall be charged on the basis of the quantity rates set out in §
54.01 as estimated by the Waterworks Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 25-66)  (Ord. passed 11-14-1910; Ord. passed 8-12-1957; Ord. 3-
70, passed 4-27-1970; Ord. 75-19, passed 1-12-1976; Ord. 76-4, passed 3-8-1976)
§ 54.06  RAILROADS.
   Water supplies for railroad use may be charged for on those terms as shall
be fixed by specific contract approved by the Common Council and the Public
Service Commissioners of the state.
(Prior Code, § 25-67)  (Ord. passed 11-14-1910; Ord. passed 8-12-1957; Ord. 3-
70, passed 4-27-1970; Ord. 75-19, passed 1-12-1976; Ord. 76-4, passed 3-8-1976)
§ 54.07  TAPPING FEES.
   (A)   Each user, at the time his or her property is connected with the
waterworks system, shall pay a charge to cover the costs of excavating and
tapping the main; furnishing and installing service pipe from the main to the
lot line; furnishing and installing corporation and stop cocks; and furnishing
and installing meter crock (if outside) yoke and meter.
   (B)   The charge for a five-eight-inch meter tap shall be $160 unless the
tap is made to the 24-inch water line between the Old Indiana Water Plant and
the intersection of Roads 250 North and 100 West, in which case the five-eight-
inch meter tap shall be $225. The charge for a one-inch tap shall be $275
unless the tap is made to the 24-inch water line between the Old Indiana Water
Plant and the intersection of Roads 250 North and 100 West, in which case the
one-inch meter tap shall be $300. The charge for a tap larger than the one-inch
meter tap shall be the cost of labor, materials, power machinery,
transportation and overhead incurred for installing the tap, but not less than
the charge for a one-inch meter tap.
   (C)   Waiver of tapping fees.
      (1)   Definitions. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this
division shall have the meanings ascribed to them in Title V (Public Works) or
Title XV (Unified Development Ordinance) of the City's Code of Ordinances.
         MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT. A development including building(s) designed
to accommodate three or more dwelling units or part of a mixed-use building
with each dwelling unit living independently of another. Multi-family
developments include but are not limited to apartments, condominiums, and
townhouses.
         SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development including detached,
single-family dwellings designed for and occupied by one family or other single
unit of housekeeping.
         TAPPING FEE. An availability fee and/or connection fee to the city's
water works system and/or sewage works system.
      (2)   General regulations. The general regulations of this division shall
be as set forth below.
         (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any other ordinance, the
Common Council may wholly or partially abate or waive the assessment and
collection of the following fees, applicable to new multi-family developments
with a minimum estimated construction value of $3,000,000 and/or new single-
family housing developments with a minimum of 50 single-family dwellings and a
minimum estimated value of $200,000 per single-family dwelling:
            1.   Tapping fees to the city's sewage works system; and
            2.   Tapping fees to the city's water works system.
         (b)   Prior to the Common Council's consideration of tapping fee
waiver, the following must occur:
            1.   A nonrefundable, nontransferable filing fee of $500 shall be
remitted to the city and placed in the General Fund and any applicable
applications shall be completed; and
            2.   A utility impact study shall be required unless waived by the
Common Council of the city. The study shall evaluate the present and future
fiscal impact, capacity impact, and infrastructure impact as a result of a
tapping fee waiver. The cost of the utility impact study shall be paid by the
developer in advance of any consideration for waiver.
         (c)   Approval of any waiver of tapping fees shall be presented to the
Common Council in the form of a waiver agreement and adopted by resolution.
         (d)   Following approval of a waiver agreement of tapping fees, if a
development under the provisions of this division fails to comply with the
agreed upon terms, the developer shall be subject to any reimbursement
requirements (the "reimbursement requirements") set forth in such waiver
agreement. Reimbursement requirements may include, but not be limited to, the
city's ability to recover all or a portion of the total abated or waived
tapping fees. Any reimbursement requirements will be identified and agreed upon
by all applicable parties under a waiver agreement, as stated in division (C)
(2)(c).
(Prior Code, § 25-68)  (Ord. 78-24, passed 11-27-1978; Ord. 79-1, passed 1-3-
1979; Ord. 79-18, passed 6-25-1979; Ord. 80-12, passed 5-12-1980; Ord. 2017-03,
passed 3-27-2017)
WATER CONSERVATION
§ 54.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word SHALL is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   CITY.  The City of Lebanon, State of Indiana.
   PERSON.  Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
   USER.  The person, individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization in whose name the city municipal utilities maintain
water service, or anyone who receives the use and benefit of water service,
which service is registered in another person, individual, firm, partnership,
association, corporation, company or organization’s name of any kind.
   WATER.  Water from the city municipal utility system.
(Prior Code, § 25-70)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)
§ 54.21  APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all persons, individuals,
firms, partnerships, associations, corporations, companies or organizations of
any kind connected to the city municipal utility public water system or which
may be using water therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 25-71)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)
§ 54.22  LEVELS OF CONSERVATION ENUMERATED.
   Levels of conservation are as follows:
   (A)   Level 1.  Voluntary conservation;
   (B)   Level 2.  Restricted use;
   (C)   Level 3.  Prohibited use; and
   (D)   Level 4.  Rationing.
(Prior Code, § 25-72)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)
§ 54.23  DECLARATION OF NEED FOR WATER CONSERVATION.
   Upon determining that the city municipal utility water system is in imminent
danger of a shortage of water or is experiencing a shortage of water, is unable
to maintain adequate water pressure in the system, the water demands of the
system exceed the ability to service those demands, major malfunctions or
breakdowns of equipment have occurred or other circumstances have caused an
actual or imminent danger to the water supply, then, and in any of those
events, the Common Council shall declare a water conservation emergency and
establish the level of conservation appropriate to the then existing
circumstances. The level of conservation so declared shall remain in effect for
a period of 14 days subject to extensions of like periods. No level of
conservation shall be extended more than three times without the consent of the
Common Council. Inasmuch as the city has established by ordinance, a Municipal
Utilities Service Board, which has the responsibility for management and
overseeing the public water supply, the Council shall seek periodic reports and
recommendations from the Municipal Utilities Service Board in the interest of
preservation and protection of the municipal water supply.
(Prior Code, § 25-73)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)
§ 54.24  NOTICES.
   Notice of Levels 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall be by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation within the community. Notice of Levels 3 and 4 first
violations shall be by written warning to the user, which shall inform the user
of the adopted restrictions and potential sanctions for future violations of
the restrictions. No fine or penalties shall be imposed for the first offense,
however, after receiving a written warning pursuant to this section, the
sanctions discussed in §§
54.27 and
54.28 shall be enforceable against a user. Notice of Levels 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall
be effective upon notice to the local newspaper and by posting the same in each
district or in three public places within the community.
(Prior Code, § 25-74)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)
§ 54.25  LEVEL 1, VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   Level 1, voluntary conservation, shall be comprised of the following
measures.
   (A)   The Common Council, upon recommendation from the Utility Service
Board, shall request that the users engage in a conscious effort to reduce
water consumption in the community by practicing voluntary water conservation
techniques as will be helpful in managing the then existing water shortage or
crisis.
   (B)   The Common Council and the Utility Service Board shall suggest
reasonable and meaningful actions or techniques that water users can take which
will be beneficial to the alleviation of the then existing or potential water
shortage or crisis.
(Prior Code, § 25-75)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)
§ 54.26  LEVEL 2, RESTRICTED USE.
   Level 2, restricted use, shall be comprised of the following restrictions on
water usage, subject to reasonable terms and conditions as the Common Council
and the City Utility Service Board shall determine, and pursuant to which users
of water shall be requested to voluntarily cease the following types of water
uses:
   (A)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, lawns, grass,
ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables or any other vegetation;
   (B)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, trailer houses, railroad
cars or any other type of mobile equipment;
   (C)   Cleaning or spraying of outdoor surfaces such as sidewalks, driveways,
filling station aprons, porches and other outdoor surfaces;
   (D)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment or machinery;
   (E)   Operation of ornamental fountains, swimming pools and wading pools
which do not employ a filter and recirculating system of water at the time of
declaration of need;
   (F)    The filling of swimming pools, wading pools and ornamental fountains;
and
   (G)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing beyond the point
of service of the municipal utilities.
(Prior Code, § 25-76)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)
§ 54.27  LEVEL 3, PROHIBITED USE.
   Level 3, prohibited use, shall be comprised of the following:
   (A)   Users of water shall be prohibited from the water uses listed in the
foregoing §
54.26;
   (B)   Users of water violating this section shall be subject to termination
of water service by the city after having first received those notices as
discussed and specified in §
54.24; and
   (C)   Restoration of water service terminated under this section shall
require payment by the user of a restoration fee of $50.
(Prior Code, § 25-77)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.28  LEVEL 4, RATIONING.
   Level 4, rationing, in addition to the mandatory and prohibited use
conservation measures identified in the preceding section, shall be comprised
of the following which shall limit water use per the following schedule.
   (A)   Each residential user’s consumption shall be limited to not more than
175 gallons of water per day.
   (B)   Apartment buildings or apartment or multifamily complexes with a
single water meter shall be limited to a total consumption not to exceed 175
gallons of water per day per dwelling unit.
   (C)   Business, commercial and industrial users shall be limited to 65% of
the volume of water used during the corresponding month of the preceding year.
Business, commercial or industrial users that were not in business and
operating in the city more than one year prior to the declaration of Level 4,
rationing shall be restricted to 65% of the average monthly volume of water
used during the number of months the business, commercial or industrial user
was in business and operating in the city.
   (D)   Water uses listed in §
54.26 shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Water users who exceed the above volume limitations shall be subject
to a fine of $1 for each gallon of usage in excess of that limitation, after
first having received notice as discussed in §
54.24.
   (F)   In addition to the other penalties and provisions provided herein,
users of water violating this section shall be subject to immediate termination
of water service by the city, after first having received notice as discussed
in §
54.24.
(Prior Code, § 25-77.1)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.29  EXCEPTIONS TO LEVEL 4.
   The following shall not be subject to the limitations imposed by §
54.28:
   (A)   Health care providers; and
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to those businesses,
industries or agricultural activities declared to be necessary by resolution of
the Common Council to be necessary for the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 25-77.2)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)
§ 54.30  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every police officer shall, in connection with his or her duties
imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Common Council, through the cooperation of the Utility Service
Board and the city municipal utilities, or its designee, shall have the
authority to enforce the provisions of this subchapter by the discontinuance of
water service to any user or users in the event of violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Upon declaring a water conservation emergency, the City Council, in
conjunction with the Utility Service Board, may invoke standards and
restrictions less stringent than those established by §§
54.26 through
54.28.
(Prior Code, § 25-77.3)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)
BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 54.45  GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the city from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within the customer’s
internal distribution system(s) or the consumer’s private water system(s) those
contaminants or pollutants which could back flow into the public water systems;
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the consumer’s in-plant potable water
system(s) and nonpotable water system(s), plumbing fixtures and industrial
piping systems;
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems; and
      (4)   To comply with rules pertaining to operation of a public water
supply as outlined in 327 I.A.C. 8-10 et seq.
   (B)   Responsibility.  The city utilities shall be responsible for the
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contaminants or
pollutants through the water service connection.  If, in the judgment of the
city utilities an approved backflow prevention assembly is required as defined
by the Indiana Administrative Code, 327 I.A.C. 8-10, Rule 10 (at the customer’s
water service connection; or, within the customer’s private water system) for
the safety of the water system, the city utilities or their designated agent
shall give notice in writing by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, to the customer to install an approved backflow prevention assembly
(s) at specific location(s) on his or her premises. The consumer shall
immediately install the approved assembly(s) at the consumer’s own expense;
and, failure, refusal or inability on the part of the customer to install, have
tested and maintain the assembly(s) shall constitute a ground for discontinuing
water service to the premises until the requirements have been satisfactorily
met.
(Prior Code, § 25-78.1)  (Ord. 90-17, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 54.46  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP.  The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing, fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the vessel. An
APPROVED AIR-GAP shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe,
measured vertically, above the overflow rim of the vessel and in no case less
than one inch.
   APPROVED.  Accepted by the city utilities as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in this subchapter, or as suitable for the
proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY.  Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the purveyor’s approved public water supply will be considered as an
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor’s public potable water supply or any natural source(s) such as a well,
spring, river, stream, harbor and the like, or used waters or industrial
fluids. These waters may be contaminated or polluted or they may be
objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water
purveyor does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW.  The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either
backpressure or backsiphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER.  An approved assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow.
   BACKPRESSURE.  The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
under pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system
from any source or sources other than the intended source.
   BACKSIPHONAGE.  The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply caused by the reduction
of pressure in the potable water supply system.
   CITY UTILITIES WATER SUPERINTENDENT.  The Superintendent of the Water
Department of the city utilities is vested with the authority and
responsibility for the implementation of an effective cross-connection control
program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
   CONTAMINATION.  An impairment of the quality of the potable water by sewage,
industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION.  Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems one of which contains
potable water and the other nonpotable water or industrial fluids of
questionable safety, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur
into the potable water system. This would include any temporary connections,
such as swing connections, removable sections, four-way plug valves, spools,
dummy section of pipe, swivel or change-over devices or sliding multiport tube.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT.  The installation of an approved
backflow prevention assembly at the water service connection to any customer’s
premises where it is physically and economically infeasible to find and
permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential cross-connections
within the customer’s water system; or, it shall mean the installation of an
approved backflow prevention assembly on the service line leading to and
supplying a portion of a customer’s water system where there are actual or
potential cross-connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or
controlled at the point of the cross-connection.
   CROSS-CONNECTIONS, CONTROLLED.  A connection between a potable water system
and a nonpotable water system with an air-gap or approved backflow prevention
assembly properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford
the protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY.  An assembly of two independently operating
approved check valves with resilient seated shut-off valves on each end of the
check valves, plus properly located resilient seated test cocks for the testing
of each check valve. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance
specifications as determined by a laboratory and field evaluation program
resulting in an approval by a recognized and city utilities’ approved testing
agency for backflow prevention assemblies. To be approved, these assemblies
must be readily accessible for in-line testing and maintenance.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF.  The term is derived from an evaluation of the potential
risk to public health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable
water system.
   HAZARD, HEALTH.  Any condition, device or practice in the water supply
system and its operation which could create, or in the judgment of the city
utilities, may create a danger to the health and well-being of the water
consumer.
   HAZARD, PLUMBING.  A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by an approved air-gap or
approved backflow prevention assembly.
   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL.  An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
   HAZARD, SYSTEM.  An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted affect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM.  Any system containing a fluid or solution which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional or
plumbing hazard if introduced into an approved water supply.  This may include,
but not be limited to: polluted or contaminated waters; all types of process
waters and used waters originating from the public potable water system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating
acids and alkalines, circulating cooling waters connected to an open cooling
tower and/or cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or
stabilized with toxic substances; contaminated natural waters such as from
wells, springs, streams, rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals or
systems and the like; oils, gases, glycerine, paraffins, caustic and acid
solutions and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in industrial or other
purposes or for firefighting purposes.
   POLLUTION.  The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect the waters for domestic use.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPAL ASSEMBLY.  An assembly of two independently
acting approved check valves together with a hydraulically operating,
mechanically independent differential pressure relief valve located between the
check valves and at the same time below the first check valve.  The unit shall
include properly located resilient seated test cocks and resilient seated shut-
off valves at each end of the assembly. The entire assembly shall meet the
design and performance specifications as determined by a laboratory and a field
evaluation program resulting in an approval by a recognized and city utilities’
approved testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies. The assembly shall
operate to maintain the pressure in the zone between the two check valves at an
acceptable level less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the
assembly. At cessation of a normal flow, the pressure between the two check
valves shall be less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the
assembly. In case of leakage of either of the check valves the differential
relief valve shall operate to maintain the reduced pressure in the zone between
the check valves by discharging to the atmosphere.  When the inlet pressure is
two pounds per square inch or less, the relief valve shall open to the
atmosphere. To be approved, these assemblies must be readily accessible for in-
line testing and maintenance and be installed in a location where no part of
the assembly will be submerged.
   WATER, NONPOTABLE.  Water which is not safe for human consumption or which
is of questionable potability.
   WATER, POTABLE.  Any water which, according to recognized standards, is safe
for human consumption.
   WATER, SERVICE CONNECTION.  The terminal end of a service connection from
the public potable water system; i.e., where the water purveyor loses
jurisdiction and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to
the customer’s water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service
connection, then the service connection shall mean the downstream end of the
meter. There should be no unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of
any meter or ahead of any backflow prevention assembly located at the point of
delivery to the customer’s water system.  SERVICE CONNECTION shall also include
water service connection from a fire hydrant and all other temporary or
emergency water service connections from the public potable water system.
   WATER, USED.  Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public potable
water system to a consumer’s water system after if has passed through the point
of delivery and is no longer under the sanitary control of the water purveyor.
(Prior Code, § 25-78.2)  (Ord. 90-17, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 54.47  REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Water system.
      (1)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
utility system and the customer’s system.
      (2)   UTILITY SYSTEM shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system; and shall include all those facilities of the water system
under the complete control of the utility, up to the point where the customer’s
system begins.
      (3)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the distribution
system.
      (4)   The distribution system shall include the network of conduits used
for the delivery of water from the source to the customer’s system.
      (5)   The CUSTOMER’S SYSTEM shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system which are utilized in
conveying utility-delivered domestic water to points of use.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the water purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by state laws and regulations and this subchapter. Service of water to
any premises shall be discontinued by the water purveyor if a backflow
prevention assembly required by this division is not installed, tested and
maintained, or if it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been
removed, bypassed or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises.
Service will not be restored until the conditions or defects are corrected.
      (2)   The customer’s system should be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city utilities to
determine whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violations of this subchapter or regulations which are adopted
through this subchapter, exist. When a condition becomes known, the Water
Department Superintendent shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the
premises by providing for a physical break in the service line until the
customer has corrected the condition(s) in conformance with the state and city
statutes relating to plumbing and water supplies and the regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
      (3)   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall also be installed on
each service line to a customer’s water system at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line wherever the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply which
is not or may not be of safe bacteriological or chemical quality and which is
not acceptable as an additional source by the city utilities, the public water
system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by installing an
approved backflow prevention assembly in the service line appropriate to the
degree of hazard;
         (b)   In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any
other objectionable substance is handled in a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system, the public system shall be
protected against backflow from the premises by installing an approved backflow
prevention assembly in the service line appropriate to the degree of hazard.
This shall include the handling of process waters and waters originating from
the utility system which have been subject to deterioration in quality; and
         (c)   In the case of premises having:
            1.   Internal cross-connection that cannot be permanently corrected
or controlled; or
            2.   Intricate plumbing and piping arrangements or where entry to
all portions of the premises is not readily accessible for inspection purposes,
making it impracticable or impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous
cross-connections exist, the public water system shall be protected against
backflow from the premises by installing an approved backflow prevention
assembly in the service line.
      (4)   The type of protective assembly required under divisions (B)(3)(a),
(B)(3)(b) and (B)(3)(c) above shall depend upon the degree of hazard which
exists as follows.
         (a)   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water
supply as stated in division (B)(3)(a) of this section and it is not subject to
any of the following rules, the public water system shall be protected by an
approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly.
         (b)   In the case of any premises where there is water or substance
that would be objectionable but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double check valve assembly.
         (c)   In the case of any premises where there is any material
dangerous to health which is handled in a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly. Examples of premises where these
conditions will exist include sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations,
chemical manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries and plating plants.
         (d)   In the case of any premises where there are uncontrolled cross-
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly at the service connection.
         (e)   In the case of any premises where, because of security
requirements or other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or
impractical to make a complete in-plant cross-connection survey, the public
water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by either an
approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly on each service to the premises.
      (5)   (a)   Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be a
model and size approved by the city utilities. The term APPROVED BACKFLOW
PREVENTION ASSEMBLY shall mean an assembly that has been manufactured in full
conformance with the standards established by the American Water Works
Association (AWWA) entitled AWWA C506-84 Standards for Reduced Pressure
Principle and Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Devices and, has met
completely the laboratory and field performance specifications of the
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research (FCCC&HR) of the
University of Southern California established by Specifications of Backflow
Prevention Assemblies - Section 10 of the most current issue of the Manual of
Cross-Connection Control.  The AWWA and FCCC&HR standards and specifications
are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference by the city utilities
to this subchapter. A list of approved devices is on file in the city utilities
office. Final approval shall be evidenced by a certificate of approval issued
by an approved testing laboratory certifying full compliance with the AWWA
standards and FCCC&HR specifications.
         (b)   The following testing laboratory has been qualified by the city
utilities to test and certify backflow preventers:
            Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research
            University of Southern California
            University Park
            Los Angeles, California 90089
         (c)   Testing laboratories other than the laboratory listed above will
be added to an approved list as they are qualified by the city utilities.
Backflow preventers which may be subjected to backpressure or backsiphonage
that have been fully tested and have been granted a certificate of approval by
the qualified laboratory and are listed on the laboratory’s current list of
approved backflow prevention assemblies may be used without further test or
qualification.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the customer/user at any premises where
backflow prevention assemblies are installed to have certified inspections and
operational tests made upon installation and at least once per year. In those
instances where the Utilities Water Department Superintendent deems the hazard
to be great enough he or she may require certified inspections at more frequent
intervals. These inspections and tests shall be at the expense of the water
user and shall be performed by the assembly manufacturer’s representative, city
utilities personnel or by a certified tester approved by the city utilities. It
shall be the duty of the city utilities to see that these tests are made in a
timely manner. The customer/user shall notify the city utilities in advance
when the tests are to be undertaken so that an official representative may
witness the tests if so desired. These assemblies shall be repaired, overhauled
or replaced at the expense of the customer/user whenever the assemblies are
found to be defective. Records of the tests, repairs and overhaul shall be kept
and made available to the city utilities.
      (7)   All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies which do not
meet the requirements of this section but were approved devices for the
purposes described herein at the time of installation and which have been
properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements under division (B)(6) above, be excluded from the requirements of
these rules so long as the city utilities is assured that they will
satisfactorily protect the utility system. Whenever the existing device is
moved from the present location or requires more than minimum maintenance or
when the city utilities finds that the maintenance constitutes a hazard to
health, the unit shall be replaced by an approved backflow prevention assembly
meeting the requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 25-78.3)  (Ord. 90-17, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any users who violate §§
54.27 and
54.28 of this chapter may be punished by a fine, in addition to other sanctions
listed, of not more than $2,500 (per I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)).  Each day of
violation of §§
54.27 and
54.28 shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to, or in the
alternative to a fine, water service may be terminated for any user who
violates §
54.27 or §
54.28.
(Prior Code, § 25-77.3)  (Ord. 88-16, passed 9-26-1988)
CHAPTER 55:  SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Section
General Provisions
   
55.001   Definitions
   
55.002   Bylaws and regulations of the Utility Service Board
   
55.003   Damaging, defacing and the like, sewerage works property
   
55.004   Right of entry
   
55.005   Legal authority
   
55.006   Administration
   55.007 - 55.099   Reserved
Enforcement
   
55.100   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
55.101   Judicial enforcement remedies
   
55.102   Supplemental enforcement action
   
55.103   Administrative appeals
   
55.104   Falsifying of information
   55.105 - 55.199   Reserved
Connection to System
   
55.200   Privies, septic tanks, cesspools and the like generally prohibited
   
55.201   Required use of sewers
   
55.202   Construction of building (or house) lateral sewers
   
55.203   Extensions outside city
   
55.204   Prohibition of discharge to natural outlets
   
55.205   Right to prohibit new connections
   55.206 - 55.299   Reserved
Wastewater Admissibility
   
55.300   Limitations on point of discharge
   
55.301   Special agreements
   
55.302   Prohibited discharges
   
55.303   Prohibition of unpolluted waters for purposes of dilution of
wastewater
   
55.304   Prohibition of radioactive wastes
   
55.305   Limitations on use of garbage grinders
   
55.306   Limitations on wastewater strength
   
55.307   Right to revision
   
55.308   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
55.309   Hauled wastewater
   55.310 - 55.399   Reserved
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
55.400   Applicable users
   
55.401   General requirements
   
55.402   Notifications to utility
   
55.403   Wastewater discharge approval
   
55.404   Monitoring program
   
55.405   Inspection program
   
55.406   Reporting requirements
   
55.407   Accidental discharge/slug control/solvent management plans
   
55.408   Liability for maintenance of pretreatment and other equipment
   
55.409   Right to reject waste or require pretreatment
   55.410 - 55.499   Reserved
Charges and Surcharges
   
55.500   Utility Service Board authorized to make rules to enforce chapter
   
55.501   Tap fee charge
   
55.502   Sewer rates and charges
   
55.503   Metered water supply
   
55.504   Metered wastewater volume and metered diversions
   
55.505   Estimated wastewater volume
   
55.506   Unmetered water users
   
55.507   Discharge of water from noncity sources into sanitary sewage system
   
55.508   Surcharge costs
   
55.509   Additional pretreatment program fees
   
55.510   Billing for sewerage service
   
55.511   Study of rates and charges
   
55.512   Bylaws and regulations authorized
   
55.513   Authorized for special rate contracts
   55.514 - 55.998   Reserved
 
   
55.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply and
supersede the definitions provided in the Lebanon Utilities General Terms and
Conditions for Wastewater Service. Additional definitions are provided in the
Lebanon Utilities General Terms and Conditions for Wastewater that may apply to
this chapter.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as that Clean Water
Act; the primary federal law in the United States governing water pollution as
amended, 33 U.S. S. § 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The approval authority for the City of Lebanon Utilities
Wastewater Department is IDEM.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
carbonaceous, biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures for five days at 20 degrees centigrade, usually expressed as a
concentration (e.g. mg/L) as defined in the current in Standard Methods.
   BOARD. The Lebanon Utility Service Board is the governing body of the sewage
system of the city, which system is a municipal utility.
   CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (CBOD). The CBOD of sewage, sewage
effluent, polluted waters or industrial wastes, shall mean the depletion of
dissolved oxygen by biological organisms in a body of water in which the
contribution from nitrogenous bacteria has been suppressed. The laboratory
determinations of CBOD shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
Standard Methods.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The COD of sewage effluent, polluted water or
industrial wastes, is a measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion of the
organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong
chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   CITY. The City of Lebanon, Indiana.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Wastewater having or containing:
      (1)   Measurable carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Suspended solids;
      (3)   pH;
      (4)   Fecal coliform bacteria; or
      (5)   Additional pollutants identified or defined in the city's national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit or by the state or board.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A composite sample should contain a minimum of four
discrete samples, taken at equal time intervals over the compositing period or
proportional to the flow rate over the compositing period. More than the
minimum number of discrete samples will be required where the wastewater
loading is highly variable. This sample must be thoroughly mixed for testing
procedures to ensure accurate results.
   COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of Lebanon, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting upon its behalf.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Region 5 Water Management Division Director,
or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   FINE or PENALTY. For purposes of this chapter, these terms will be used
synonymously, meaning a monetary charge or payment imposed upon a person or
user that is not complying with the requirements of this chapter or has been
convicted of a crime or offense. Fines or penalties are imposed by the utility
to the user as part of enforcement actions.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food, or from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE. The terms and conditions for
services, as codified and as amended and supplemented from time to time, shall
govern all wastewater service rendered or to be rendered by utility. The terms
and conditions for service shall be binding upon every customer and utility,
and shall constitute a part of the terms and conditions of every contract for
wastewater service, whether written or oral.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample taken on a one-time basis without consideration for
flow or time.
   HAULED OR TRUCKED POLLUTANTS. Wastes, including holding tank waste, which is
trucked or hauled from any location prior to discharge to the POTW, collection
system, or by any other conveyance.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGER. A nondomestic discharger introducing pollutants into a
POTW, regardless of whether the discharger is within the governmental
jurisdiction of the permittee.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Means an indirect discharger.
   INSPECTOR. A person authorized by the Board or the Wastewater Operations
Manager to perform inspection duties assigned by them, him or her.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does one of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the sewage works, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods.
      (2)   Causes odorous impacts to the sewage works.
      (3)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
      (4)   Prevents the use of the POTW's sewage sludge or its sludge disposal
method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more stringent federal, state, or
local laws, rules, or regulations.
      (5)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1345), as it may be
amended.
      (6)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. 6901), as it may be
amended, including:
         (a)   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act (RCRA), as it may be amended; and
         (b)   The rules contained in any state sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. 6941), as it may be amended.
      (7)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401), as it may be amended.
      (8)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601), as it may be
amended.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforces by the City of
Lebanon upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and
specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5 (a)(1) and (b).
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. This definition is no longer applicable to the city's
ordinances and has been replaced by the term significant industrial user.
   MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE UNIT. The maximum concentration (or loading) of
a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis
of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent or the industrial
flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   MAY. The act referred to is both permissible and approved.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. NPDES permit
now or hereafter held by the city and setting forth conditions for the
discharge of any pollutants or combination of pollutants.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE (TO DETERMINE SURCHARGES). Wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
      (1)   CBODs not more than 210 mg/L;
      (2)   TSS not more than 240 mg/L;
      (3)   FOG not more than 100 mg/L;
      (4)   Phosphorus not more than 1 mg/L; and
      (5)   TKN not more than 40 mg/L.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, including
but not limited to, replacement costs necessary to provide adequate wastewater
collection, transport and treatment on a continuing basis and to produce
discharges to receiving waters that conform with all related federal, state,
and local requirements.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through a POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the city's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, individuals, partnership, co-partnership, firm,
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives,
agency or assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local
governmental entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units of zero through 14.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, toxic wastes, hazardous substances, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and
industrial, municipal, commercial, and agricultural wastes or any other
contaminant discharged into water.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirements
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an
industrial user, including applicable local limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Any state pretreatment standards as established in
327 IAC 5-18-8; pretreatment standards for prohibited discharges, as
established in 327 IAC 5-18-2; National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
incorporated by reference in 327 IAC 5-18-10.
   PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any water that, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw
material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product.
Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these
prohibitions appear in §
55.302.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
55.302.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned by the city and/or utility.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works owned by the
municipality and includes any devices, structures and systems used in the
storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage, sludge and compatible
industrial wastes. This term also includes sewers, pipes, equipment, and other
conveyances only if they convey wastewater to a POTW. POTW also means the
municipality that has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the
discharges from the treatment works.
   RECEIVING SEWER SYSTEM. The Lebanon Municipal Sewer System.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
POTW to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharge from the sanitary conveniences of dwelling
(including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings, factories or
institutions and free from stormwater, surface water, and industrial waste.
   SEWAGE. A combination or the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, industrial establishments or other structures.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting, pumping,
treating, and disposing of sewage and sludge.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying sewage or other liquids, and
solids suspended or entrained therein.
   SEWERAGE (SEWER) SYSTEM. The network of municipally owned sewers and
appurtenances used for collecting, transporting, and pumping wastewater to the
treatment plant.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to a degree that all particles
will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally prevailing
in the sewerage system, with no particle being greater than one-half inch in
dimension.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). The term SIU means:
      (1)   Industrial users subject to pretreatment standards under 327 IAC 5-
18-10.
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day (gpd) or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the utility on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation, violating a pretreatment standard, or violating a requirement of 327
IAC 519-3.
      (3)   The approval authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or a POTW and in accordance with
327 IAC 5-19-3(6), determine that an industrial user is not a significant
industrial user if it does not meet (2)(c) of this definition.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Means the status of an industrial user that has
caused or allowed a violation that meets one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violation, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of all the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken
during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum
limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4 for CBOD,
TSS, fats, oil, and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or long-term average) that the Wastewater Operations Manager determined has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through (including endangering the health of utility personnel or the public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the utility's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the utilities
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
that could cause a violation of §§
55.300 through
55.309.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation and
as set forth in the Congressional Record 40 CFR Part 136.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users for treating sewage
wastes with an average strength in excess of normal domestic sewage.
   TIME COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A sample resulting from the combination of individual
samples of equal volume taken at equal intervals of time, without consideration
of the volume or rate of flow.
   TOTAL BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (TBOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million (ppm) or milligrams per
liter (mg/L).
   TOTAL KJELDAHL NITROGEN (TKN). TKN is the total concentration of organic
nitrogen, ammonia and ammonium in soil, water, or wastewater.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the
reasonable control of the industrial user. An upset does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
pretreatment facilities, inadequate pretreatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   USER. A person who introduces into or discharges into the sewage works,
including both the owner and occupant of real estate from which is introduced
or discharged into the sewage works, any substance whatever.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works as may be amended from time
to time by the City Council.
   USER CLASSES. Each recipient of municipal wastewater treatment services
shall be either in the industrial class or the nonindustrial class (including
domestic, commercial, institutional and governmental).
      INDUSTRIAL USER. Includes any user determined by the utility to be
discharged waste  resulting from any industrial or manufacturing process; from
the development, recovery or processing or any natural resource or from any
other process or operation which produces waste of a strength greater than
sanitary waste.
      NONINDUSTRIAL USER. All domestic and governmental users and those
industrial, commercial and industrial users whose wastes are segregated
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences where regular domestic
wastes are those wastes generated by normal domestic activity as determined by
the Board.
   UTILITY. Lebanon Utilities is the municipally owned wastewater utility
serving the City of Lebanon, Indiana.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, institutions, and industrial and
manufacturing facilities, whether treated or untreated, which are contributed
to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER OPERATIONS MANAGER. The person designated by the utility to
supervise the operation of the sewage works, POTW, and who is charged with
certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or a duly authorized
representative.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.002  BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS OF THE UTILITY SERVICE BOARD.
   The Board may adopt and enforce reasonable regulations not in conflict
herewith as it may deem necessary for the safe, economical and efficient
management of the utility's sewage works and for the construction and use of
building (or house) lateral sewers and connections to the sewage works, which
regulations may include limitations of or prohibition of introduction of
stormwater, surface water and groundwater into the sewage works.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.003  DAMAGING, DEFACING AND THE LIKE, SEWAGE WORKS PROPERTY.
   A person shall not maliciously, willfully or recklessly break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.004  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Representatives of the utility, state and the EPA, upon reasonable notice to
any person who is an owner, tenant or occupant of any real estate, are
empowered to enter, upon presentation of proper credentials, all premises for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measuring, sampling and testing water,
sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.005  LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   The Board and the utility have the legal authority to:
   (A)   Develop and enforce specific limits on prohibited substances;
   (B)   Enter the premises of any industrial user to conduct inspections,
surveillance, record review and/or monitoring, as necessary to determine
compliance with the sewer use ordinance and, if applicable, any effective
industrial wastewater pretreatment permit;
   (C)   Accept or deny any new or increase discharges from any indirect
discharger;
   (D)   Immediately halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants to the sewage
works which reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to the
health or welfare of the public, the environment, and/or which threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW;
   (E)   Require compliance with all applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements by indirect discharges;
   (F)   Impose fees, if necessary to offset the cost incurred by the permittee
for administering the pretreatment program requirements established in this
chapter; and
   (G)   Impose fines in accordance with §§
55.100 through
55.199.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.006  ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the general manager shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The general manger may
delegate any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Wastewater Operations
Manager or to other utility personnel.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.007 - § 55.099  RESERVED.
ENFORCEMENT
§ 55.100  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Informal notification of violation. When the Wastewater Operations
Manager finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision
of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or
any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the Wastewater Operations
Manager may serve upon that user an informal notice of violation via email,
phone call, or other method. Within ten days of the receipt of this notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the Wastewater Operations Manager. Submission of this plan in no
way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the Wastewater Operations Manager to take any action, including
emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a
notice of violation.
   (B)   Written notification of violation. When the Wastewater Operations
Manager finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision
of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or
any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the Wastewater Operations
Manager, may serve upon that user a written notice of violation. Within ten
days of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan
for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific
required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the Wastewater Operations
Manager. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for
any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Wastewater Operations
Manager to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (C)   Consent orders. The Wastewater Operations Manager may enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such
documents will include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the
noncompliance within a time period specified by the document. Such documents
shall have the same force and effect as the administrative orders issued
pursuant to §
55.100(D) and §
55.100(E) and shall be judicially enforceable.
   (D)   Show cause hearing. The Wastewater Operations Manager may order a user
which has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the Wastewater
Operations Manager and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should
not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place
for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action,
and a request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least 21 days prior
to the hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of
the user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Compliance orders. When the Wastewater Operations Manager finds that a
user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Wastewater Operations Manager may
issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the
user come into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come
into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued
unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances
are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other
requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring
and management practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants
discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for
compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a
compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any
continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (F)   Cease and desist orders.
      (1)   When the Wastewater Operations Manager finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision oft his chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, or that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the
Wastewater Operations Manager may issue an order to the user directing it to
cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      (2)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (G)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the Wastewater Operations Manager finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Wastewater Operations Manager may impose a fine of not more
than $2,500 per day, per violation for a first violation nor more than $7,500
per day, per violation for subsequent violations, in accordance with I.C. 36-1-
3-8(a)(10)(B), or as hereafter recodified.
      (2)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 60 calendar days,
be assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest
shall accrue thereafter at a rate of 1% per month. A lien against the user's
property will be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
      (3)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request
for the Wastewater Operations Manager to reconsider the fine along with full
payment of the fine amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where
a request has merit, the Wastewater Operations Manager may convene a hearing on
the matter. In the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment, together
with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, may
be added to the fine.
      (4)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (H)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The Wastewater Operations Manager may immediately suspend a user's
discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to
present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The Wastewater Operations Manager may also immediately
suspend a user's discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that
threatens to interfere with the operation of the sewage works, or which
presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
         (a)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Wastewater Operations Manager may take such steps as deemed necessary,
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the sewage works, its receiving stream, or endangerment to any
individuals. The Wastewater Operations Manager may allow the user to recommence
its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Wastewater Operations Manager that the period of endangerment has passed,
unless the termination proceedings in §
55.100(I) are initiated against the user.
         (b)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any
discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written
statement, describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures
taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the Wastewater Operations Manager
prior to the date of any show cause or termination hearing under §
55.100(D) and §
55.100(I).
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   (I)   Termination of discharge.
      (1)   Any user who violates the following conditions is subject to
discharge termination:
         (a)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
         (b)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         (c)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
         (d)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for
inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
         (e)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
55.400 through
55.499.
      (2)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
55.100(D) why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option
by the Wastewater Operations Manager shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.101  JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Injunctive relief. When the Wastewater Operations Manager finds that a
user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Wastewater Operations Manager may
petition the appropriate court through the utility's attorney for the issuance
of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or
compels the specific performance of the wastewater discharge permit, order, or
other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The
Wastewater Operations Manager may also seek such other action as is appropriate
for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to
conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not
be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a
user.
   (B)   Civil fines.
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the utility for a
maximum civil fines per violation, per day in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-4 or
as may be recodified. In the case of a monthly or other long-term average
discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the
violation.
      (2)   The Wastewater Operations Manager may recover reasonable attorneys'
fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages
incurred by the utility.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall
consider all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation,
any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by
the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil fines shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (C)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   A user who willfully or recklessly violates any provision of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement may be punished by a fine and/or criminal
prosecution as applicable.
      (2)   A user who willfully or recklessly introduces any substance into
the sewage works which causes personal injury or property damage may be
punished by a fine and/or criminal prosecution as applicable.
      (3)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations,
or certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other
documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter,
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter may be punished by a fine and/or criminal
prosecution as applicable.
   (D)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this subchapter
are not exclusive. The Wastewater Operations Manager may take any, all, or any
combination of these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of
pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the utility's
enforcement response plan. However, the Wastewater Operations Manager may take
other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
Wastewater Operations Manager is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.102  SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   (A)   Performance bonds. The Wastewater Operations Manager may decline to
issue or reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to
comply with any provision of this chapter, a previous wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, unless such user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the
utility, in a sum not to exceed a value determined by the Wastewater Operations
Manager to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The Wastewater Operations Manager may decline to
issue or reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to
comply with any provision of this chapter, a previous wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, unless the user first submits proof that it has obtained financial
assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to the sewage works caused by
its discharge.
   (C)   Water supply severance. Whenever a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, water
service to the user may be severed. Service will only recommence, at the user's
expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
   (D)   Public nuisances. A violation of any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and
shall be corrected or abated as directed by the Wastewater Operations Manager.
Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of
the City of Lebanon Code governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the
utility for any costs incurred in removing, abating, or remedying said
nuisance.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.103  ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   (A)   Any user affected by any decisions, action or determination, including
cease and desist orders, made by the Wastewater Operations Manager,
interpreting or implementing the provisions of this chapter, any permit issued
herein or any regulation of the Board adopted pursuant hereto, may file with
the Board a written request for review and reconsideration within ten days of a
decision, action or determination, setting forth in detail the facts supporting
the user's request for reconsideration.
   (B)   The appeal shall, if reasonably possible, be heard by the Board within
30 days from the date of filing. The Wastewater Operations Manager's decision,
action or determination shall remain in effect during the period of
reconsideration, unless the Board otherwise determines on request of the user.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.104  FALSIFYING OF INFORMATION.
   A person shall not knowingly make or submit to the utility a false
statement, representation, record, report, plan or other document required to
be filed hereunder or under a duly adopted regulation of the Board, or
voluntarily filed, with the intent that the utility rely thereon, or falsify,
tamper with or knowingly render inaccurate any monitoring, testing, measuring
or timing devise required or installed under these regulations.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.105 - § 55.199  RESERVED.
CONNECTION TO SYSTEM
§ 55.200  PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS, CESSPOOLS AND THE LIKE GENERALLY PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided by the Board, the city or the state or any of
its agencies, a person shall not construct or maintain a privy, septic tank,
cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.201  REQUIRED USE OF SEWERS.
   The owner of all residential, commercial and industrial or other buildings
or property used for human occupancy, employment or recreation situated within
the city is hereby required to install suitable toilet facilities therein and
to connect the facilities to a public sewer or a private sewer facility. The
connection shall be made to a public sewer except where there is no public
sewer within 175 feet of the owner's residence or business, as measured from
the sewer line and the owner's residence or business. If a connection is made
to a private sewage system as permitted herein and a public sewer later comes
within this distance, a connection shall be made to the public sewer, and the
connection to the private sewage facility shall be abandoned. It shall be a
violation of this subchapter not to make the connection required herein within
90 days after written notice to do so has been given to the owner by the
utility. The notice may be given by delivery, or by certified mail to the
owner's last known address.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.202  CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDING (OR HOUSE) LATERAL SEWERS.
   (A)   The size, shape, alignment, materials of construction of a building
(or house) lateral sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing the
pipe, jointing testing and backfilling the trench shall conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes, the Lebanon Standards and
other applicable rules and regulations of the city.
   (B)   Separate sewer requirements. A separate and independent building (or
house) lateral sewer shall be provided for every building (or house); except
where one building (or house) stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
(or house) through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. In these cases,
the building (or house) lateral sewer from the front building (or house) may be
extended to the rear building (or house) and the whole considered as one
building (or house) lateral sewer. If the property is divided into separate
ownership, the sanitary sewer should be separated. If the line cannot be
separated, a written agreement should be attached to both parcels for future
reference.
   (C)   Use of old building (or house) lateral sewer for new building (or
house). Old building (or house) lateral sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings (or houses) only when they are determined, upon examination and
test by a qualified inspector, to meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   Elevation and location of building (or house) lateral sewer. Whenever
reasonably possible, the building (or house) lateral sewer shall be brought to
the building (or house) at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings (or houses) in which any building (or house) drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the appropriate public sewer, wastewater carried by the
building (or house) drain shall be lifted by an appropriate means and
discharged to the building (or house) lateral sewer. Lift pump systems should
be located outside of the building or house unless authorized in writing by the
Wastewater Operations Manager.
   (E)   Connection of downspouts, drains and the like. No person shall
hereafter connect or reconnect roof downspouts, footing drains, areaway drains,
driveways, parking lots or other sources of surface run-off or groundwater, to
a building (or house) lateral sewer or building (or house) drain which is in
turn connected directly or indirectly to the sewerage system.
   (F)   Inspection; supervision of connection. The applicant for the building
(or house) lateral sewer permit shall notify the Board or its designated
representative when a building (or house) lateral sewer is ready for inspection
and connection to the sewerage system. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the inspector or his or her representative using materials and
techniques conforming to the requirements of the Board.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.203  EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CITY.
   A person shall not directly or indirectly make any connections with or
openings into the sewerage system for serving any areas outside the corporate
boundaries of the city without first securing a specific resolution of the
Board describing the real estate and property to be served and authorizing the
connection.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.204  PROHIBITION OF DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.205  RIGHT TO PROHIBIT NEW CONNECTIONS.
   The utility shall have the right to prohibit new connections when the excess
capacity of the sewerage system is deemed insufficient by the Board to
accommodate the expected flow, CBOD and/or suspended solids loading from the
prospective sewer user.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.206 - § 55.299  RESERVED.
WASTEWATER ADMISSIBILITY
§ 55.300  LIMITATIONS ON POINT OF DISCHARGE.
   No person shall discharge any substance directly into a manhole or other
opening in the sewerage system other than through the approved building (or
house) lateral sewer, except in accordance with the terms of this subchapter or
by express permission of the Board.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.301  SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement or arrangement between the utility and any user or person whereby
wastewater of unusual strength or character is accepted into the sewage works
and specially treated, and the user is subject to any payments or user charges,
as maybe be applicable. However, no discharge which violates categorical
pretreatment standards will be allowed under the terms of such special
agreements. If, in the opinion of the utility, the wastewater may have the
potential to cause or result in any of the following circumstances, no special
agreement shall be made: pass-through or interference at the POTW; endanger
municipal employees or the public; or cause violations of the city's NPDES
permits or water quality standards in the receiving waters.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.302  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the sewage works any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass
through or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the
sewage works.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.
      (1)   A user of the sewage works, whether or not the user is subject to
pretreatment standards or requirements, shall not allow the introduction of the
following into the sewage works:
         (a)   A pollutant from any source of nondomestic wastewaters that
could pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance of
the sewage works.
         (b)   A pollutant that could create a fire or explosion hazard in the
sewage works, including waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than
140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius) using the test methods in 40 CFR
261.21.
         (c)   A pollutant that could cause corrosive structural damage to the
sewage works, including a discharge with pH lower than six and greater than
nine, unless the POTW is specifically designed to accommodate such a discharge.
         (d)   A solid or viscous pollutant in an amount that could cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of
the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground
garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, paper
dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
         (e)   A pollutant, including an oxygen demanding pollutant (such as
CBOD) released in a discharge at a rate or pollutant concentration that could
cause interference in the POTW.
         (f)   Heat in an amount that could:
            1.   Inhibit biological activity in the POTW and result in
interference or damage to the POTW; or
            2.   Exceed 40 degrees Celsius or 104 degrees Fahrenheit at the
POTW unless the approval authority, upon request of the POTW, approves
alternate temperature limits.
         (g)   Petroleum, oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or mineral oil
origin in an amount that could cause interference or pass through. These
pollutants include, but are not limited to, any gasoline, benzene, naphtha,
fuel oil or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
         (h)   A pollutant that could result in the formation or presence of
toxic gases, vapors, or fumes within the sewage works in a quantity that may
cause acute worker health and safety problems.
         (i)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except with the permission of the
utility; and when introduced to the sewage works at a discharge point
designated by the utility.
         (j)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance or repair.
         (k)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the city's NPDES permit.
         (l)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
in compliance with applicable IDEM or federal regulations and only after
written notification of the Wastewater Operations Manager.
         (m)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Wastewater Operations Manager.
         (n)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes.
         (o)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Wastewater Operations Manager in a wastewater discharge permit.
         (p)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test.
         (q)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the sewage works.
         (r)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations exceeding those outlined in §
55.306.
         (s)   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the sewage works, or at any point in the sewage
works, of more than 10% or any single reading over 25% of the lower explosive
limit.
      (2)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the sewage works.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.303  PROHIBITION OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS FOR PURPOSES OF DILUTION OF
WASTEWATER.
   Unpolluted water, including, but not limited to city water, cooling water,
process water or blowdown from cooling towers or evaporative coolers, shall not
be discharged through direct or indirect connection to the sewerage system for
purposes of diluting wastewater to reduce sewer rates or charges of the user.
Limitations on the amount of unpolluted water that is discharged shall be part
of the wastewater discharge approval process.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.304  PROHIBITION OF RADIOACTIVE WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any radioactive waste
into the sewerage system.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.305  LIMITATIONS ON USE OF GARBAGE GRINDERS.
   Only properly shredded garbage may be discharged into the sewerage system.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.306  LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   (A)   Compatible pollutant levels. The utility shall have the right to
impose a surcharge for waste discharged into the sewerage system whose strength
or character is such that the introduction of the waste into the sewage works
may cause additional costs to the system. A user discharging compatible
pollutants (as defined in §
55.001) above the following levels, shall be subject to surcharges as described
in §
55.508:
 
Parameter   Discharge Levels
CBOD5       210 mg/L
TSS         240 mg/L
FOG         100 mg/L
TKN         40 mg/L
Phosphorous 1 mg/L
 
   (B)   Specific pollutant limitations. No person shall discharge wastewater
containing more than:
Pollutant Local Limit (mg/L)
Pollutant       Local Limit (mg/L)
Arsenic         0.16
Cadmium         0.09
Chromium, Total 2.7
Copper          0.20
Cyanide, Total  0.19
Lead            0.54
Mercury         0.0003
Nickel          1.1
Phenols, Total  1.0
Selenium        0.24
Silver          0.66
Zinc            2.4
 
   (C)   Unless otherwise defined herein, terms shall be as adopted in the
latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association, and American Waterworks
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation and as set forth in 40
C.F.R. part 136. Waste constituents and characteristics shall be measured by
Standard Methods unless a mutually agreed upon acceptable alternative method is
adopted, or by other method established by state or federal regulatory
agencies. Monitoring and metering will be carried out by customarily accepted
methods. The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the sewage works. All concentrations for metallic substances are for "total"
metal unless indicated otherwise.
   (D)   The utility reserves the right to monitor or have a user monitor for
pollutants not identified in this section to assess surcharges and compliance
with this subchapter. The Wastewater Operations Manager will determine the type
of analysis to be conducted based on the type and strength of pollutants
discharged by a user to the sewage works. A COD limit will be established on a
case-by-case basis and will be assessed at CBOD surcharge fees as described in
§
55.508.
   (E)   The utility reserves the right to impose mass limits, in addition to,
concentration limits on users.
   (F)   The utility reserves the right to establish special agreements with
users that do not follow the wastewater strength limitations described in this
section nor follows the surcharge amounts described in §
55.508. Special agreements may be established under §
55.301.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.307  RIGHT TO REVISION.
   The utility reserves the right to establish more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the sewage works.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.308  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   These interceptors shall be provided at (a) all restaurants; and at (b) all
industrial or commercial enterprises when, in the opinion of the utility, they
are necessary to contain grease, flammable wastes or sand and other harmful
inert materials. All interceptors shall be approved by the utility and shall be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.309  HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the sewage works only at
locations designated by the Wastewater Operations Manager, and at such times
that are established by the Wastewater Operations Manager. Such waste shall not
violate this subchapter or any other requirements established by the utility.
The Wastewater Operations Manager may require septic tank waste haulers to
obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The Wastewater Operations Manager may require generators or haulers of
trucked or hauled pollutants to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The
Wastewater Operations Manager also may prohibit the disposal of trucked or
hauled pollutants. The discharge of trucked or hauled pollutants is subject to
all other requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   No generator or hauler shall discharge any trucked or hauled
pollutants to the sewage works, unless prior written permission is provided by
the utility. The hauler must possess written approval or a permit from the
utility; pay applicable permit fees; maintain valid vehicle licenses; and only
discharge to the sewage works at a point designated by the Wastewater
Operations Manager. The Wastewater Operations Manager may require the generator
or hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   In the event the utility allows trucked or hauled pollutants to be
discharged to the sewage works, the Wastewater Operations Manager shall:
      (1)   Obtain and retain, for a minimum of48 hours, samples that are
representative of the hauled or trucked pollutants;
      (2)   Analyze the samples obtained if the permittee believes or has
reason to believe that the hauled or trucked pollutants may be causing and/or
contributing to passthrough and or interference; and
      (3)   Maintain records for each discharge of trucked or hauled pollutants
into the sewage works in accordance with the city's NPDES permit.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.310 - § 55.399  RESERVED.
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 55.400  APPLICABLE USERS.
   These requirements are intended to protect the sewage works from discharges,
not necessarily only those from manufacturing industries, which may adversely
affect plant operations or permit compliance. The user classes subject to this
section include:
   (A)   An industrial user subject to pretreatment standards and issued a
permit by the state;
   (B)   A user meeting the definition of a SIU in accordance with §
55.001, unless specifically exempted by the utility; or
   (C)   Any user deemed by the utility that may have an adverse impact on the
sewage works.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.401  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with
this subchapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §§
55.300 through
55.309 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the
Wastewater Operations Manager, whichever is more stringent.
   (B)   Any equipment necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated,
and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities
and operating procedures shall be submitted to the Wastewater Operations
Manager for review, and shall be acceptable to the Wastewater Operations
Manager before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and
operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility
of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to
the utility under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Wastewater Operations Manager may
require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate
that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/
or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from
industrial waste streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to
protect the sewage works and determine the user's compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   When requested by the Wastewater Operations Manager, a user must
submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within
30 days of the request. The Wastewater Operations Manager is authorized to
prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update
this information.
   (E)   The Wastewater Operations Manager may require any person discharging
into the sewage works to install and maintain, on their property and at their
expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of
flow. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (F)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Wastewater Operations Manager, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Wastewater
Operations Manager and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection. Shop drawings for all interceptors shall be submitted to the
utility for approval prior to being put in service. Such interceptors shall be
inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user at their
expense. Maintenance and hauling operations should be documented and records
made available at the request of the Wastewater Operations Manager.
   (G)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   (H)   If the Wastewater Operations Manager allows the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Wastewater
Operations Manager and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information
relating to pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval
of the town and no construction of those facilities shall be commenced until
approval in writing is granted.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.402  NOTIFICATIONS TO UTILITY.
   (A)   Changes in facility conditions or discharge.
      (1)   Significant industrial users with a permit issued by the state will
follow the permit provisions described in their permit and submit copies to the
Wastewater Operations Manager.
      (2)   Users must notify the Wastewater Operations Manager of any planned
changes to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature,
quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
      (3)   The Wastewater Operations Manager may require the SIU to submit any
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition.
Planned significant changes include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Expansion or addition of wastewater generating production lines
or processes;
         (b)   Projected increases of 20% or greater in monthly flow over the
previous year's highest monthly flow, or annual average flow over the previous
year's annual average flow; and/or
         (c)   The discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
      (4)   The Wastewater Operations Manager shall review any proposed new or
increased discharge to ensure it is admissible under §§
55.300 through
55.309.
      (5)   The city retain the right to deny any new or increased discharge to
ensure compliance with this chapter, state and federal pretreatment standards
and requirements.
   (B)   Change in ownership or business.
      (1)   Significant industrial users with a permit issued by the state will
follow the permit provisions described in their permit and submit copies to the
Wastewater Operations Manager.
      (2)   Users with a change in ownership will be recognized as a new
industrial facility and shall comply with the utility's discharge limits in
accordance with this subchapter.
      (3)   Discharge approval for an sm shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed
operation without prior notification to and approved by the Wastewater
Operations Manager.
      (4)   If a change in a business occurs, the property owner and/or user
shall inform the Wastewater Operations Manager of the change within 30 days,
and inform the Wastewater Operations Manager of the new type of business that
is currently operating at said location.
   (C)   Potential problems.
      (1)   Significant industrial users with a permit issued by the state will
follow the permit provisions described in their permit and submit copies to the
Wastewater Operations Manager.
      (2)   Users shall notify the Wastewater Operations Manager immediately of
all discharges that could cause problems or harm to the sewage works. This
would include any of the following: bypass of pretreatment facilities or
equipment; accidental discharges; slug load or slug discharge; batch or other
non-customary discharges that could cause pass through or cause interference at
the POTW; and/or upsets.
      (3)   The user shall verbally notify the Wastewater Operations Manager of
any unanticipated flow that exceeds prohibited discharges as described in §§
55.300 through
55.309 or other requirements as soon as the user becomes aware of the bypass
that is in violation.
   (D)   Notification to the utility.
      (1)   Significant industrial users with a permit issued by the state will
follow the notification provisions described in their permit and submit copies
to the Wastewater Operations Manager.
      (2)   If a user knows in advance of a potential problem, it shall notify
the Wastewater Operations Manager, if possible, at least ten days before the
date of the event.
         (a)   A user shall verbally notify the Wastewater Operations Manager
of any unanticipated flow that exceeds prohibited discharges as described in §§
55.300 through
55.309 or other requirements as soon as the user becomes aware of the bypass
that is in violation.
         (b)   Verbal notifications shall include: the date, time, location and
duration of the discharge; the type of waste including concentration and
volume; any corrective actions taken by the user.
         (c)   If requested by the Wastewater Operations Manager, the SIU shall
also provide a written notification within five days of the event. The written
submission shall contain: a description of the bypass and its cause; the volume
and duration of the bypass, including exact times and dates, and if the bypass
has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and
steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent recurrence of the
event.
§ 55.403  WASTEWATER DISCHARGE APPROVAL.
   (A)   Approval process.
      (1)   A SIU holding a permit from the State of Indiana is prima facie and
subject to this section. The holder of a permit from the state shall file with
the Wastewater Operations Manager a copy of each report or application
submitted to the state on the same day as it is filed with the state. Each user
who applies to the state for a permit shall similarly file a copy of such
application and all supporting documents with the Wastewater Operations Manager
on the same day as the state.
      (2)   All users must notify the utility before discharging to the sewage
works. Information to be provided to the utility includes the minimum:
construction plans including all sewage works connections, description of
activities at the facility, an accidental discharge or slug plan as described
in §
55.407, a narrative description of any pretreatment of wastewaters, and
detailed plans of any pretreatment system. The utility may require additional
information or equipment as described in §
55.401.
      (3)   The user is to follow all sections of this subchapter. The
Wastewater Operations Manager will issue a letter to the user stating discharge
is approved within 30 days of receiving the submittal.
      (4)   Discharge approval will be for a period of five years. Users are
required to submit information at least 60 days prior to permit expiration.
      (5)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of a state permit or this
subchapter shall be deemed a violation and subjects the wastewater discharge
permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
55.100 to
55.104. Obtaining a wastewater discharge approval does not relieve a permittee
of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards
or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state, and local
law.
      (6)   Existing connections. Any user required to obtain wastewater
discharge approval who was discharging wastewater into the sewage works prior
to the effective date of this subchapter and who wishes to continue such
discharges in the future, shall, within 60 days after said date, apply to the
Wastewater Operations Manager for wastewater discharge approval in accordance
with §
55.403, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the sewage works to continue
after 180 days of the effective date of this subchapter except in accordance
with wastewater discharge approval issued by the Wastewater Operations Manager.
      (7)   New connections. Any user required to obtain wastewater discharge
approval from the utility who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into
the sewage works must obtain such approval prior to the beginning or
recommencing of such discharge. The wastewater discharge approval process must
be completed at least 30 days prior to the date upon which any discharge will
begin or recommence.
   (B)   Discharge approval fees.
      (1)   Discharge approval fees for users will be $100.
      (2)   As necessary, the utility may engage outside consultation to review
submittals and plans. The user shall agree to pay the utility for the actual
costs incurred by the utility with respect to the review of the all submittals,
plans, and accompanying information.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.404  MONITORING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Wastewater Operations Manager will conduct monitoring on all SIUs,
no less than twice per calendar year.
   (B)   Monitoring of SIUs can be either scheduled or unscheduled.
   (C)   The charge to the SIU for each monitoring period shall be $250 per
day, plus all analytical costs.
   (D)   Significant industrial users with batch discharges shall notify the
Wastewater Operations Manager at least 24 hours prior to discharge upon request
of the Wastewater Operations Manager.
   (E)   In addition to the monitoring fee, each SIU with a state issued permit
shall install at its own expense a suitable control manhole or other access
means, together with such necessary appurtenances in or on each building
lateral sewer to facilitate observations, sampling and measurement of the
wastewater. Such manholes or other access means and sampling and testing
devices shall be constructed and maintained in a safe and proper condition to
the Wastewater Operations Manager's satisfaction, as detailed in building and
plumbing codes and other applicable rules and regulations of the city. Although
this access point shall be constructed at the expense of the user, it shall be
under the control of the utility. If locating such facilities on the SIU's
property would be impractical, the SIU may apply to the utility for a right-of-
way or for permission to construct on public property.
   (F)   The utility shall provide necessary sampling equipment during a
monitoring period for control manholes or other access means. Sampling
equipment shall, unless otherwise specified by the Wastewater Operations
Manager, include a device for automatically measuring flow and a device for
automatically taking a composite sample of wastewater during a 24-hour period.
There shall be ample room in or near facilities to allow accurate sampling and
preparation of samples for analysis.
   (G)   The utility shall implement the applicable monitoring requirements:
      (1)   During each monitoring period, measure the volume of flow and
sample and analyze the discharge from each SIU for all parameters contained in
the state issued permit, except for Total Toxic Organics (TTOs), which shall be
sampled and analyzed no less than once per calendar year, if required per the
SIU's permit.
      (2)   The utility will follow the sample types and analytical methods
described in SIU's state issued permit.
      (3)   The utility shall collect samples at the sample located specified
in the state issued permit.
      (4)   The utility shall sample and analyze the discharge from any
industrial user, including SIUs with state issued permit, for any parameter as
necessary to achieve and/or maintain compliance with the requirements of the
city's NPDES permit and/or this subchapter.
      (5)   The utility shall record and maintain all sampling and analytical
data for the permitted facilities in accordance with the city's NPDES permit.
   (H)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
If onsite treatment operations are utilized, the Wastewater Operations Manager
reserves the right to require sampling of process wastewater prior to pre-
treatment and before discharge to the public collection system. Wastewater
monitoring and flow measurement equipment shall be properly operated, kept
clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The failure of a user
to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall not be grounds for
the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.405  INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Wastewater Operations Manager shall implement a program of
inspecting all SIUs in accordance with the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   Conduct inspections for each SIU, no less than once annually;
      (2)   During each inspection conducted, the utility will evaluate areas
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Pretreatment system(s);
         (b)   Spill reporting and response procedures;
         (c)   Sampling location; and
         (d)   Disposal of sludge and other waste streams not regulated by the
state issued permit,
      (3)   The Wastewater Operations Manager shall inspect any industry,
including a SIU with a state issued permit, as necessary to:
         (a)   Achieve and/or maintain compliance with the requirements of the
city's NPDES permit; and/or
         (b)   Determine compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Wastewater Operations Manager shall, for each inspection
conducted, complete a report, utilizing an inspection report form that is at
least equivalent to the form that is available from IDEM.
   (C)   The Wastewater Operations Manager shall maintain all copies of
inspection reports in accordance with the city's NPDES permit.
   (D)   Industrial user inspections can be either scheduled or unscheduled.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.406  REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   SIUs with a state issued permit will follow the reporting provisions
described in their permit and submit copies to the Wastewater Operations
Manager. The Wastewater Operations Manager may require a SIU to provide other
reports to the utility.
   (B)   Users shall follow the notification requirements described in §
55.402. The Wastewater Operations Manager may require a user to provide a
monthly report to the utility.
   (C)   If a user samples their discharge and analyzes it for parameters
described in §
55.306, the user will submit the analytical report to the Wastewater Operation
Manager.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.407  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL/SOLVENT MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   All SIUs with a state issued permit required to complete and submit a
plan shall submit a copy of the plan(s) to the Wastewater Operations Manager
for review.
   (B)   The Wastewater Operations Manager shall evaluate whether users need a
plan or other action to control slug discharges. The Wastewater Operations
Manager may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and implement
such a plan or take other action that may be necessary to control slug
discharges. An accidental discharge/slug control/solvent management plan shall
address, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Wastewater Operations
Manager of any accidental or slug discharge that would violate a prohibition
under 327 IAC 5-18 or §§
55.300 through
55.309 and procedures for follow-up written notification within five days;
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge including, but are not limited to, the following: inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site run-off, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants (including solvents), and measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.408  LIABILITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters
or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the user at his or her expense, and shall at all reasonable times
be open to inspection and testing by the utility.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.409  RIGHT TO REJECT WASTE OR REQUIRE PRETREATMENT.
   The utility is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
utility's sewage works which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of sewage works of the utility, or to require methods affecting
pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the NPDES permit issued to the sewage works.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.410 - § 55.499  RESERVED.
CHARGES AND SURCHARGES
§ 55.500  UTILITY SERVICE BOARD AUTHORIZED TO MAKE RULES TO ENFORCE CHAPTER.
   The Board of the city shall, in accordance with the statutes of the state,
make and enforce whatever bylaws, rules and regulations it may deem necessary
for the safe, economical and efficient management of the utility's sewage
works, for the regulation, collection and refunding of the user charges for
sewerage service and, in general, for the implementation of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.501  TAP FEE CHARGE.
   (A)   No connection to the utility's sewage works system shall be allowed
until a permit is obtained and payment of availability fees and connection/
inspection fees have been made to the utility, or if applicable, payments have
been arranged in accordance with this subchapter and the general terms and
conditions (Ordinance 2015-09), or as may be recodified or amended.
      (1)   AVAILABILITY FEE. The charge to a user for a new connection to or
additional wastewater  discharge from an existing connection to the utility's
sewage works system and is charged as a pro rata cost of construction of all
interceptor sewer lines and appurtenances to serve the property of the
connecting user and is charged in return for the utility making available to
the user the utility's sewage treatment system consisting of all facilities and
operations necessary to treat sewage of the user.
         (a)   The amount of the availability fee shall be as follows:
 
Residential User All Other Users
$1,700 per EDU   $1,700 per EDU
 
         (b)   Where a project charge or recoupment agreement charge has been
established prior to the date of this section, the project charge or recoupment
agreement charge shall apply. The cost of conveyance systems constructed after
the date of this section by someone other than the utility under a written
agreement with the utility may be credited against the availability fee. The
decision to allow the credit and the amount of the credit shall be made solely
at the discretion of the utility.
      (2)   CONNECTION/INSPECTION FEE. The charge to a user for a new or
additional connection to the utility's sewage works system and is charged as a
part of the pro rata cost of construction of all local and/or lateral sewer
lines adequate to serve the property of the connecting user and for the cost of
inspecting the connection to the sewage works. The connection/inspection fee
shall be as follows:
 
Residential User All Other Users
$50              $100
 
      (3)   REPAIR INSPECTION FEE. The charge to a user for inspecting a needed
repair or replacement of an existing lateral sewer line. The repair inspection
fee shall be as follows:
 
Residential User All Other Users
$50              $100
 
   (B)   Payment of the availability fee and the connection/inspection fee
shall be made at the following times:
      (1)   For new construction connections or additional wastewater discharge
from existing sewage connections requiring plat or plan approval, the
availability fee shall be paid in full at the time of signing the record plat
or detail plan approval, or conditional use approval. The entire connection/
inspection fee shall be paid before the issuance of a building permit;
      (2)   For all existing sewage connections with additional wastewater
usage not requiring plat or plan approval, the availability fee and the
connection/inspection fee shall be paid in full before the additional discharge
is made to the utility's sewage system;
      (3)   For new industrial user connections or additional wastewater
discharge from existing industrial sewage connections requiring plat or plan
approval, the availability fee and the connection/inspection fee may be paid
through a payment plan approved by the Board; and
      (4)   For all users repairing or replacing a lateral sewer line or
existing water connections with no additional wastewater discharge, the repair
inspection fee shall be paid in full before issuance of a repair permit.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.502  SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of and the services rendered by the sewage works, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each lot, parcel of real
estate or building that relates to the city's sanitary sewer system or
otherwise discharged as sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids,
either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the city.
These rates and charges include operations and maintenance, user charges, debt
service charges, which rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter
provided and shall be in an amount determinable as follows.
   (B)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water
used on or in the property or premises subject to rates and charges, as the
same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge based on
the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise provided. The
water meters shall be read monthly and the users shall be billed monthly. The
water usage schedule on which the amount of the rates and charges shall be
determined by the addition of the base charge for the month and the treatment
flow rate per month as follows:
      (1)   Sewer base charges.
Monthly Base Charge Rate Per Month
Monthly Base Charge   Rate Per Month
5/8 to 3/4-inch meter $16.65
1-inch meter          $29.11
1-1/4-inch meter      $41.55
1-1/2-inch meter      $55.41
2-inch meter          $91.44
3-inch meter          $193.93
4-inch meter          $332.46
6-inch meter          $748.02
8-inch meter          $1,357.42
 
      (2)   Sewer usage rates.
 
Treatment Flow Rate (In Addition to the Base Charge)
All customers $5.64 per 100 cu. ft./month
 
      (3)   The user charges, fees and debt service charges set forth in the
rate structure hereinbefore set forth shall be changed, as necessary, by the
Common Council.
   (C)   The rates, charges and fees set forth in this section shall be
reviewed every calendar year for continued applicability and financial
necessity.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.503  METERED WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   User charges and fees shall be based upon the total amount of water
used from all sources unless, in the opinion of the Wastewater Operations
Manager, significant portions of water received are not discharged to a
sanitary sewer.
   (B)   The total amount of water used from public and private sources will be
determined by means of public meters or private meters, installed and
maintained at the expense of the user and approved by the Wastewater Operations
Manager.
   (C)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection, as well as
for other uses, the utility may, in its discretion, adjust the minimum charge
and in the use charge as may be equitable.
   (D)   For the service rendered to the city, the city shall be subject to the
same rates and charges hereinabove provided, or to charges and rates
established in harmony therewith.
   (E)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
building discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the city's
sewage system either directly or indirectly, are users of water and the
quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in the case for
billing purposes, the base charge per month of the sewage rates and charges
shall be multiplied by the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate,
or buildings served through the single water meter and added to treatment flow
charge determined by the treatment flow rate as applied to the monthly metered
flow. (Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.504  METERED WASTEWATER VOLUME AND METERED DIVERSIONS.
   (A)   For users where, in the opinion of the Wastewater Operations Manager,
a significant portion of the water received from any metered source does not
flow into the sanitary sewer because of the principal activity of the user or
removal by other means, the user charges and fees will be applied against the
volume of water discharged from such premises into the community sewer.
   (B)   Written notification and proof of the diversion of water must be
provided by the user if the user is to avoid the application of the user
charges and fees against the total amount of water used from all sources.
   (C)   The user may install a meter of a type and at a location approved by
the Wastewater Operations Manager and at the user's expense. Such meters may
measure either the amount of sewage discharge or the amount of water diverted.
Such meters shall be tested for accuracy at the expense of the user when deemed
necessary by the Wastewater Operations Manager.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.505  ESTIMATED WASTEWATER VOLUME.
   (A)   Users without source meters. For users where, in the opinion of the
Wastewater Operations Manager, if it is unnecessary or impractical to install
meters, the quantity of wastewater may be based upon an estimate prepared by
the Wastewater Operations Manager. This estimate shall be based upon a rational
determination of the wastewater discharged and may consider such factors as the
number of fixtures, seating capacity, population equivalent, annual production
of goods and services or such other determinants of water use necessary to
estimate the wastewater volume discharged.
   (B)   Users with source meters. For users who, in the opinion of the
Wastewater Operations Manager, divert a significant portion of their flow from
a sanitary sewer, the user charges may be based upon an estimate of the volume
prepared by the user, provided the user obtains wastewater discharge
authorization and pays the applicable user charges and fees. The estimate must
include the method and calculations used to determine the wastewater volume and
may consider such factors as the number of fixtures, seating capacity,
population equivalents, annual production of goods and services, or such other
determinations of water use necessary to estimate the wastewater volume
discharged.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.506  UNMETERED WATER USERS.
   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or where
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
estimated and determined by means and methods satisfactory to the city.
Unmetered nonresidential single-family dwelling units shall be charged a rate
to be determined by the city on an individual basis by applying the above
metered rates to the estimated usage and meter size.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.507  DISCHARGE OF WATER FROM NONCITY SOURCES INTO SANITARY SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the city shall be
determined by the city in a manner as the city shall reasonably elect and its
sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except, as is
hereinafter provided in this section, the city may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed and which are also shown to the satisfaction of the city that the
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewer system.
   (A)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the city's
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water supplied
by the water utility serving the city and the water used thereon or therein is
not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not acceptable
to the city, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or
determined by the city. To ascertain the rate or charge provided in this
subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs or volumetric measuring acceptable to the
city for the determining of sewage discharge.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the city's
sanitary sewage works, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the city and in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the city, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the city. To ascertain the rates or
charges, the owner or other interested party shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs or volumetric measuring acceptable to the
city for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the city's
sanitary sewage works, either directly or indirectly and uses water in excess
of 2,500 cubic feet per month and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
city that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not
and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement
acceptable to the city for the determination of sewage discharge.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.508  SURCHARGE COSTS.
   (A)   Each person discharging wastewater into the sanitary sewers shall be
subject to a surcharge in addition to the regular sewage service charge based
on the content of the wastes. Surcharges will be assessed for the compatible
pollutants identified in §
55.306(A) if the wastes exceed the established concentrations.
   (B)   Sampling and testing for surcharges or use charges.
      (1)   The discharged wastewater will be sampled by the utility during
each sewage billing period for minimum of a one-day period (24 continuous
hours) by means of a composite sample. An extended sampling period of up to one
week (seven continuous days) or reduction may be requested to enable the
gathering of a sample representative of a company's wastewater. The extension
or reduction of the sampling period beyond the initial one-day sampling period
maybe requested by either the sewer user involved or the utility. If an
extended sampling period is requested, the parameter values used to calculate
the surcharge will be the arithmetical average of the individual values. In the
event a company or industry has multiple discharges of wastewater; each
discharge shall be sampled according to quality. The volume of each discharge
shall be determined by actual measurement or by means of process usage. If
significant process changes are made to affect quality of any discharge,
resampling may be requested by either the sewer user involved or Lebanon
Utilities.
      (2)   The utility may accept analytical results from the user to assess
for surcharges.
   (C)   The wastewater sample shall be measured for the parameters identified
in §
55.306(A). These tests shall be made in accordance with the latest editions of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water or by an approved EPA method.
   (D)   Surcharge fees shall be made on the following basis.
 
Parameter   Current Surcharge Fee Surcharge Effective July Surcharge Effective
                                  1, 2017                  January 1, 2018
CBOD5       $0.17/lb.             $0.30/lb.                $0.43/lb.
TSS         $0.17/lb.             $0.17/lb.                $0.17/lb.
FOG         -                     $0.37/lb.                $0.74/lb.
TKN         $0.17/lb.             $0.46/lb.                $0.74/lb.
Phosphorous -                     $0.50/lb.                $1.00/lb.
 
   (E)   The utility reserves the right to monitor or have a user monitor for
pollutants not identified in this section to assess surcharges and compliance
with this chapter. The Wastewater Operations Manager will determine the type of
analysis to be conducted based on the type and strength of pollutants
discharged by a user to the sewage works. A COD limit will be established on a
case-by-case basis and will be assessed at CBOD surcharge fees as described in
§
55.508.
   (F)   Revision of rates of surcharge. Prior to May 1 of each year, the Board
shall have prepared a comparison of the calculated unit costs for removing each
of the surcharge parameters from the POTW influent during the previous calendar
year with the unit charges currently in effect in order that the Board may
determine whether the current rates of surcharge are adequate or should be
changed by the Common Council.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.509  ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT PROGRAM FEES.
   The utility may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting
up and operating the utility's pretreatment program which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge approvals including the cost of review
of such approvals;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals; and
   (E)   Other fees as the utility may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this subchapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the utility.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.510  BILLING FOR SEWERAGE SERVICE.
   Refer to the Lebanon Utilities General Terms and Conditions for Wastewater
Service for sewerage service billing requirements.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.511  STUDY OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various uses of user classes, the utility shall periodically cause a study
to be made. The study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from
industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users and user classes, the financial position of the sewage works
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation
and maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements and capital
improvements to the waste treatment systems.
   (B)   The studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the
utility, by a firm of certified public accountants and/or a firm of consulting
engineers which firms shall have experience in these studies, or by a
combination of officers, employees, certified public accountants and/or
engineers as the utility shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.512  BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS AUTHORIZED.
   The utility shall make and enforce bylaws and regulations as may be deemed
necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the utility's
sewage works, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the construction
and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage treatment works, for
the construction and use of house sewers and connection to the sewage system,
and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of the charges and
rate. No free service shall be provided to any user of the wastewater treatment
facility.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.513  AUTHORITY FOR SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to
the sewage works can be determined, and those special rates shall be based on
these costs.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 55.514 - § 55.998  RESERVED.
§ 55.999  PENALTY.
   The commission of any act prohibited by this chapter or by lawful order of
the Wastewater Operations Manager, Utility General Manager or lawful order or
regulation of the Board, or the failure to perform without lawful order of the
Wastewater Operations Manager or lawful order or regulation of the Board, shall
be a punishable violation each day of violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 6-12-2017)
CHAPTER 56:  STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
56.001   Findings
   
56.002   Purpose
   
56.003   Abbreviations and definitions
   
56.004   Responsibility for administration
   
56.005   Conflicts
   
56.006   Interpretation
   
56.007   Disclaimer of liability
Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
56.020   Applicability and exemptions
   
56.021   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
56.022   Exempted discharges and connections
   
56.023   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
56.024   Private property maintenance duties
   
56.025   Spill reporting
   
56.026   Inspections and monitoring
Stormwater Quantity Management
   
56.040   Applicability and exemptions
   
56.041   Policy on stormwater quantity management
   
56.042   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
56.043   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping and reporting
Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites
   
56.055   Applicability and exemptions
   
56.056   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
56.057   Calculations, design standards and specifications
   
56.058   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping and reporting
Stormwater Quality Management for Post-Construction
   
56.070   Applicability and exemptions
   
56.071   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
56.072   Calculations, design standards and specifications
   
56.073   Easement requirements
   
56.074   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping and reporting
Permit Requirements and Procedures
   
56.085   Preliminary drainage approvals
   
56.086   Permit procedures
   
56.087   Information requirements
   
56.088   Review of individual lots within a permitted project
   
56.089   Changes to plans
   
56.090   Fee structure
   
56.091   Required assurances
   
56.092   Terms and conditions of permits
   
56.093   Certification of as-built plans
Enforcement
   
56.105   Compliance
   
56.106   Stop work order
   
56.107   Failure to comply or complete
   
56.108   Suspension of access to storm drain system
   
56.109   Corrective action
   
56.110   Appeals
Schedule of Rates and Charges for Users of the Stormwater System
   
56.125   Definitions
   
56.126   Stormwater Department user fee
   
56.127   Stormwater Department user fee structure
   
56.128   Fee establishment procedure
   
56.129   Schedule of rates
   
56.130   Billing and payment
   
56.131   Adjustment of fees
   
56.132   Stormwater Revenue Fund
 
   
56.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 56.001  FINDINGS.
   Under state and federal regulations, the city is required to establish a
regulatory mechanism for regulating stormwater quality management. Therefore,
the city code is supplemented with this document to include stormwater quality
in addition to quantity. The city finds that:
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures and other property within and
downstream of the city are at times subjected to flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater run-off rates and volumes, increased
flooding, increased stream channel erosion and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
   (D)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes and reservoirs;
   (E)   Increases of stormwater run-off rates, soil erosion and non-point
source pollution have occurred as a result of land development, and have
resulted in a deterioration of the water resources of the city;
   (F)   Increased stormwater run-off rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater run-off from future development projects
within the city will, without reasonable regulation and control, adversely
affect the city’s water bodies and water resources;
   (G)   Illicit discharges have occurred as a result of illegal dumping and
direct connections of non-stormwater flows, and have resulted in a
deterioration of the water resources of the city;
   (H)   Continued pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within the
city will, absent a reasonable regulation, monitoring and enforcement,
adversely affect the city’s water bodies and water resources;
   (I)   Stormwater run-off, soil erosion, non-point source pollution and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by regulating
stormwater management;
   (J)   Adopting and implementing the standards, criteria and procedures
contained and referenced in this chapter address many of the deleterious
effects of stormwater run-off and illicit discharges; and
   (K)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare, and for the conservation of our natural resources.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.002  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of city through the regulation of stormwater and non-
stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system; to enhance economic
objectives; and to protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of
land and water resources within the city. This chapter establishes methods for
managing the quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the storm drain
system in order to comply with state and federal requirements. The objectives
of this chapter are:
   (A)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by excessive
stormwater run-off;
   (B)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from active construction site run-off;
   (C)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from run-off from new development and redevelopment;
   (D)   To prohibit discharges of non-stormwater flow into the storm drain
system; and
   (E)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, monitoring
and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.003  ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Abbreviations.
Abbreviation Meaning
Abbreviation Meaning
BMP          Best management practice
COE          United States Army Corps of Engineers
CWA          Clean Water Act (Pub. L. No. 94-217), being 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.
EPA          Environmental Protection Agency
GIS          Geographical information system
IDEM         Indiana Department of Environmental Management
MS4          Municipal separate storm sewer system
NPDES        National pollution discharge elimination system
POTW         Publicly owned treatment works
SWCD         Soil and water conservation district
SWPPP        Stormwater pollution prevention plan
USDA         United States Department of Agriculture
USFWS        United States Fish and Wildlife Service
 
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY.  Tillage, planting, cultivation or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tile. For purposes of this chapter, the
term does not include land-disturbing activities for the construction of
agricultural related facilities, such as barns, buildings to house livestock,
roads associated with infrastructure, agricultural waste lagoons and
facilities, lakes and ponds, wetlands and other infrastructures.
      BASE FLOW.  Stream discharge derived from groundwater sources as
differentiated from surface run-off. Sometimes considered to include flows from
regulated lakes or reservoirs.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.  Design, construction and maintenance
practices and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of
stormwater run-off rates and volumes, prevent erosion and capture pollutants.
      BUFFER STRIP.  An existing, variable width strip of vegetated land
intended to protect water quality and habitat.
      CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY).  The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
      CATCH BASIN.  A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for
the admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base
a sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of
overflow.
      CHANNEL.  A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
link between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.
      COMPREHENSIVE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.  A comprehensive stormwater program
for effective management of stormwater quantity and quality throughout the
community.
      CONSTRUCTED WETLAND.  A human-made shallow pool that creates growing
conditions suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize
pollutant removal.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.  Land-disturbing activities, and land-disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
      CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS.  A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
      CONTIGUOUS.  Adjoining or in actual contact with.
      CONTOUR.  An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting points
of the same elevation.
      CONTOUR LINE.  Line on a map which represents a contour or points of
equal elevation.
      CONTRACTOR or SUBCONTRACTOR.  An individual or company hired by the
project site or individual lot owner, his or her agent or the individual lot
operator to perform services on the project site.
      CONVEYANCE.  Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains and roadways.
      CROSS SECTION.  A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream
valley or a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream or
direction of flow.
      CULVERT.  A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage
water under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
      DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE.  Chlorinated water that has either
sat idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than 0.05 milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
      DESIGN STORM.  A selected storm event, described in terms of the
probability of occurring once within a given number of years, for which
drainage or flood control improvements are designed and built.
      DETENTION.  Managing stormwater run-off by temporary holding and
controlled release.
      DETENTION BASIN.  A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow
of stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the
excess waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
      DETENTION STORAGE.  The temporary detaining of storage of stormwater in
storage facilities, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks,
open spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with
the rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices.
      DETENTION TIME.  The theoretical time required to displace the contents
of a tank or unit at a given rate of discharge (volume divided by rate of
discharge).
      DETRITUS.  Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed to
stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
      DEVELOPER.  Any person financially responsible for construction activity,
or an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any
lots in a subdivision.
      DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
            1.   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
            2.   Construction of flood control structures such as levees,
dikes, dams, or channel improvements;
            3.   Construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
            4.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more
than 180 days;
            5.   Installing utilities, erection of walks, construction of roads
or similar projects;
            6.   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
            7.    Storage of materials; or
            8.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
         (b)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance
of existing buildings and facilities such as painting, reroofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
buildings.
      DISCHARGE.  Usually the rate of water flow. A volume of fluid passing a
point per unit time commonly expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters
per second, gallons per minute or millions of gallons per day.
      DISPOSAL.  The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking or
placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so
that the solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may
enter the environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any
waters, including groundwaters.
      DITCH.  A human-made, open drainageway in or into which excess surface
water or groundwater drained from land, stormwater run-off or floodwaters flow
either continuously or intermittently.
      DRAIN.  A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
      DRAINAGE.  The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land
by means of ditches or subsurface drains. Also, see NATURAL DRAINAGE.
      DRAINAGE AREA.  The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may
be of different sizes for surface run-off, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface run-off area is considered as the DRAINAGE AREA.
      DRY WELL.  A type of infiltration practice that allows stormwater run-off
to flow directly into the ground via a bored or otherwise excavated opening in
the ground surface.
      DURATION.  The time period of a rainfall event.
      ENVIRONMENT.  The sum total of all the external conditions that may act
upon a living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
      ERODIBILITY INDEX. The SOIL ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI) provides a numerical
expression of the potential for a soil to erode considering the physical and
chemical properties of the soil and the climatic conditions where it is
located. The higher the index, the greater the investment needed to maintain
the sustainability of the soil resource base if intensively cropped. It is
defined to be the maximum of (RxKxLS)/T (from the Universal Soil Loss Equation)
and (CxI)/T (from the Wind Erosion Equation), where R is a measure of rainfall
and runoff, K is a factor of the susceptibility of the soil to water erosion,
LS is a measure of the combined effects of slope length and steepness, C is a
climatic characterization of windspeed and surface soil moisture and I is a
measure of the susceptibility of the soil to wind erosion. ERODIBILITY INDEX
scores equal to or greater than eight are considered highly erodible land.
      EROSION.  The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice,
gravity or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe
different types of water erosion:
         (a)   ACCELERATED EROSION.  Erosion much more rapid than normal or
geologic erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of humans.
         (b)   CHANNEL EROSION.  An erosion process whereby the volume and
velocity of flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
         (c)   GULLY EROSION.  An erosion process whereby run-off water
accumulates in narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the
soil to considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 to
100 feet.
         (d)   RILL EROSION.  An erosion process in which numerous small
channels only several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently
disturbed and exposed soils. See RILL.
         (e)   SHEET EROSION.  The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of
soil from the land surface by run-off water.
         (f)   SPLASH EROSION.  The spattering of small soil particles caused
by the impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles
may or may not be subsequently removed by surface run-off.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A practice, or a combination of practices,
to minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion at the
source and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being
discharged from or within a project site.
      FILTER STRIP.  Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually 20 to 75
feet wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or
impervious surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants for the protection of
watercourses, reservoirs or adjacent properties.
      FLOATABLE.  Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
      FLOOD or FLOOD WATERS. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation, or the run- off of surface waters from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN.  The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel which
have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year flood. Any
normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by water from any
natural source. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
      FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE.  The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway, which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
      FOOTING DRAIN.  A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement
wall foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater elevation.
      GARBAGE.  All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid and semisolid
wastes resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving
or consumption of food or food materials.
      GASOLINE OUTLET.  An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
primary function is the resale of fuels. The term applies to facilities that
create 5,000 or more square feet of impervious surfaces, or generate an average
daily traffic count of 100 vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
      GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM.  A computer system capable of
assembling, storing, manipulation and displaying geographically referenced
information. This technology can be used for resource management and
development planning.
      GRADE.
         (a)   The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit and the
like, or natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage
the vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
         (b)   The finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment
or bottom of excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the
support of construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit.
         (c)   To finish the surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of
embankment, or bottom of excavation, or other land area to a smooth, even
condition.
      GRADING.  The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope
or elevation.
      GRASS.  A member of the botanical family Graminae, characterized by
blade-like leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
      GROUNDWATER.  Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial.
The term does not include human-made underground storage or conveyance
structures.
      HABITAT.  The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal
are supplied.
      HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND (HEL). Land that has an erodibility index of eight
or more.
      HOT SPOT DEVELOPMENT. Projects involving land uses considered to be high
pollutant producers such as vehicle service and maintenance facilities, vehicle
salvage yards and recycling facilities, vehicle and equipment cleaning
facilities, fleet storage areas for buses, trucks, and the like, industrial/
commercial or any hazardous waste storage areas or areas that generate such
wastes, industrial sites, restaurants and convenience stores, any activity
involving chemical mixing or loading/unloading, outdoor liquid container
storage, public works storage areas, commercial container nurseries, and some
high traffic retail uses characterized by frequent vehicle turnover.
      HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE.  A numeric United States geologic survey code that
corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric code.
      HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE.  A numeric United States geologic survey code that
corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric code.
      HYDROLOGY.  The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on
the surface of the earth and underground. A typical hydrologic study is
undertaken to compute flow rates associated with specified flood events.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE.  Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or
tree limbs.
      IMPAIRED WATERS.  Waters that do not or are not expected to meet
applicable water quality standards, as included on IDEM’s CWA § 303(d) List of
Impaired Waters.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.  Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which
prevent the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
      INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT.  A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR.  A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual lot.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER.  A person who has financial control of construction
activities for an individual lot.
      INFILTRATION.  Passage or movement of water into the soil. INFILTRATION
PRACTICES include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
run-off through the soil to groundwater. Examples include infiltration basins
or trenches, dry wells and porous pavement.
      INLET.  An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of surface
stormwater run-off, more completely described as a STORM DRAIN INLET.
      LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY.  Any human-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil,
excavating, filling, transporting and grading.
      LAND SURVEYOR.  A person licensed under the laws of the state to practice
land surveying.
      LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE.  A plan, undertaken by a
single project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert,
to offer lots for sale or lease; where the land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, the
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a
structure, where the soil meets the foundation around the outside of the
structure (including structural members such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well).
      LOWEST FLOOR. Refers to the lowest of the following:
         (a)   The top of the basement floor;
         (b)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level
of the building;
         (c)   The top of the first floor of buildings constructed on a slab or
of buildings elevated on pilings or constructed on a crawl space with permanent
openings; or
         (d)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
            1.   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
flood waters, by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways
and windows) having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet
of enclosed area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be
no higher than one foot above grade.
            2.   Such enclosed space shall be usable only for the parking of
vehicles or building access.
      MANHOLE.  Storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
      MEASURABLE STORM EVENT.  A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half inch of
rainfall.
      MULCH.  A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWERS.  An MS4 meets all the following
criteria:
         (a)   Is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the state,
county, city, town or other public entity;
         (b)   Discharges to waters of the United States;
         (c)   Is designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
         (d)   Is not a combined sewer; and
         (e)   Is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW).
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM.  A permit developed by
the United States EPA through the Clean Water Act (Pub. L. No. 94-217), being
33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. In this state, the permitting process has been delegated
to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal stormwater quality.
      NATURAL DRAINAGE.  The flow patterns of stormwater run-off over the land
in its predevelopment state.
      NUTRIENT(S).
         (a)   A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction of
organisms.
         (b)   In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates)
that promote growth of algae and bacteria.
      OPEN DRAIN.  A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that
conveys drainage water.
      OPEN SPACE.  Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious surfaces
created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural or other human-
made activities.
      OUTFALL.  The point, location or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
      OUTLET.  The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake,
tidewater or artificial drain.
      PEAK DISCHARGE or PEAK FLOW.  The maximum instantaneous flow from a given
storm condition at a specific location.
      PERCOLATION.  The movement of water through soil.
      PERMANENT STABILIZATION.  The establishment, at a uniform density of 70%
across the disturbed area, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding or
other movement.
      PERVIOUS.  Allowing movement of water.
      POINT SOURCE.  Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance
including, but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure or container from which pollutants are or may be discharged
(Pub. L. No. 92-500, § 502[14]).
      POROUS PAVEMENT.  A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality
and reduce the quantity of stormwater run-off via the use of human-made,
pervious pavement which allows run-off to percolate through the pavement and
into underlying soils.
      PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  A person licensed under the laws of the state to
practice professional engineering in the state.
      PROJECT SITE.  The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
      PROJECT SITE OWNER.  The person required to submit a stormwater permit
application, and required to comply with the terms of this chapter, including a
developer or a person who has financial and operational control of construction
activities, and project plans and specifications, including the ability to make
modifications to those plans and specifications.
      RAIN GARDEN.  A vegetative practice used to alter impervious surfaces,
such as roofs, into pervious surfaces for absorption and treatment of rainfall.
      RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL or RECEIVING WATER.  The body of
water into which run-off or effluent is discharged. The term does not include
private drains, unnamed conveyances, retention and detention basins or
constructed wetlands used as treatment.
      RECHARGE.  Replenishment of groundwater reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
      REDEVELOPMENT.  Alterations of a property that change a site or building
in a way that there is disturbance of one acre or more of land. The term does
not include the activities as exterior remodeling.
      REFUELING AREA.  An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose
primary function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
      REGIONAL POND. A detention/retention basin sized to detain/retain the
runoff from the entire watershed, on-site and off-site, tributary to the pond’s
outlet.
      REGULATORY FLOOD.  The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-
year flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known as the BASE FLOOD.
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY.  See FLOODWAY.
      RELEASE RATE.  The amount of stormwater release from a stormwater control
facility per unit of time.
      RESERVOIR.  A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space
used for storage, regulation or control of water. May be either permanent or
temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
      RETENTION.  The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
      RETENTION BASIN.  A type of storage practice that has no positive outlet,
used to retain stormwater run-off for an indefinite amount of time. Run-off
from this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous bottom
or by evaporation.
      RETURN PERIOD.  The average interval of time within which a given
rainfall event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a return period
of 100 years has a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one year.
      RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a waterbody that supports
animal and plant life associated with that waterbody.
      RIPARIAN ZONE.  Of, on or pertaining to the banks of a stream, river or
pond.
      RUN-OFF.  The portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on
the land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.
      RUN-OFF COEFFICIENT.  A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain
which appears as run-off and reaches the storm drain system to the total amount
of rain failing. A coefficient of 0.5 implies that 50% of the rain failing on a
given surface appears as stormwater run-off.
      SEDIMENT.  Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in
suspension, is being transported or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity or ice and has come to rest on the earth’s surface.
      SEDIMENTATION.  The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
      SENSITIVE WATER.  A water body in need of priority protection or
remediation base on its providing habitat for threatened or endangered species,
usage as a public water supply intake, relevant community value, usage for full
body contact recreation, exceptional use classification as found in 327 I.A.C.
2-1-11(b), outstanding state resource water classification as found in 327
I.A.C. 2-1-2(3) and 327 I.A.C. 2-1.5-19(b).
      SITE.  The entire area included in the legal description of the land on
which land-disturbing activity is to be performed.
      SLOPE.  Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as
a numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is
commonly the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance
(rise); e.g., 2:1. However, the preferred method for designation of slopes is
to clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length (L)
and width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that according to
international standards (metric), the slopes are presented as the vertical or
width component shown on the numerator; e.g., 1V:2H. SLOPE EXPRESSIONS in this
chapter follow the common presentation of slopes; e.g., 2:1 with the metric
presentation shown in parenthesis, e.g., (1V:2H). SLOPES can also be expressed
in percents. SLOPES given in percents are always expressed as (1 00*V/H); e.g.,
a 2:1 (1V:2H) slope is a 50% slope.
      SOIL.  The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A public organization created under
state law as a special-purpose district to develop and carry out a program of
soil, water and related resource conservation, use and development within its
boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a local governing body,
established under I.C. 14-32.
      SOLID WASTE.  Any garbage, refuse, debris or other discarded material.
      SPILL.  The unexpected, unintended, abnormal or unapproved dumping,
leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge or other loss of petroleum, hazardous
substances, extremely hazardous substances or objectionable substances. The
term does not include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does
not migrate off the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
      STORM DURATION.  The length of time that water may be stored in any
stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to be
stored.
      STORM EVENT.  An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within
a given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration
storm event is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
      STORM SEWER.  A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a STORM DRAIN.
      STORMWATER.  Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail or
sleet.
      STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM.  All means, natural or human-made, used for
conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. A collection of structural and
nonstructural practices and infrastructure designed to manage stormwater on a
site. This system may include but is not limited to erosion control measures,
storm drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities and stormwater
quality BMPs.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN.  A comprehensive written document
that addresses stormwater run-off quality.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE.  A practice, or a combination of practices,
to control or minimize pollutants associated with stormwater run-off.
      STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP).  A plan developed to
minimize the impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction
activities.
      STORMWATER RUN-OFF.  The water derived from rains falling within a
tributary basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in
channels or conduits.
      STRIP DEVELOPMENT.  A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road.
      SUBDIVISION.  Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided into
lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for the purpose of
sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions
and resulting in the creation of more than four lots, including but not limited
to subdivisions requiring any new street or extension of Lebanon facilities or
the creation of any public improvements.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision of land which results in the creation
of four or fewer new lots or the reconfiguration of existing lots and which
does not involve the construction or extension of public or private streets or
utilities.
      SUBSURFACE DRAIN.  A pervious backfield trench, usually containing stone
and perforated pipe, for intercepting groundwater or seepage.
      SURFACE RUN-OFF.  Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground and the like and is not absorbed or retained by that
surface but collects and runs off.
      SWALE.  An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least
seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing
water. SWALES conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide
some groundwater recharge.
      TEMPORARY STABILIZATION.  The covering of soil to ensure its resistance
to erosion, sliding or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch or other non-erosive material applied at a uniform density of
70% across the disturbed area.
      TILE DRAIN.  Pipe made of perforated plastic, burned clay, concrete or
similar material, laid to a designed grade and depth, to collect and carry
excess water from the soil.
      TOPOGRAPHIC MAP.  Graphical portrayal of the topographic features of a
land area, showing both the horizontal distances between the features and their
elevations above a given datum.
      TOPOGRAPHY.  The representation of a portion of the earth’s surface
showing natural and human-made features of a given locality such as rivers,
streams, ditches, lakes, roads, buildings and most importantly, variations in
ground elevations for the terrain of the area.
      TRAINED INDIVIDUAL.  An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of stormwater quality, including erosion and sediment control as may
be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification, experience
or completion of coursework that enable the individual to make judgments
regarding stormwater control or treatment and monitoring.
      URBAN DRAIN. A drain as defined as “Urban Drain” in Indiana Drainage
Code.
      URBANIZATION.  The development, change or improvement of any parcel of
land consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational or public utility purposes.
      VEGETATED SWALE.  A type of vegetative practice used to filter stormwater
run-off via a vegetated, shallow-channel conveyance.
      WATER QUALITY.  A term used to describe the chemical, physical and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
      WATER RESOURCES.  The supply of groundwater and surface water in a given
area.
      WATERBODY.  Any accumulation of water, surface or underground, natural or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
      WATERCOURSE.  Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or human-
made drainageway in or into which stormwater run-off or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATERSHED.  The region drained by or contributing water to a specific
point that could be along a stream, lake or other stormwater facilities.
WATERSHEDS are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic
modeling.
      WATERSHED AREA.  All land and water within the confines of a drainage
divide. See also WATERSHED.
      WETLANDS.  Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.004  RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement
agency may be delegated in writing by the city to qualified persons or entities
acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the city.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.005  CONFLICTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional requirements to
minimum standards required by other city ordinances, and as supplemental
requirements to Indiana’s Rule 5 regarding Stormwater Discharge Associated with
Construction Activity, (327 I.A.C. 15-5) and Indiana’s Rule 13 regarding
Stormwater Run-off Associated with Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
Conveyances (327 I.A.C. 15-13). In case of conflicting requirements, the most
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.006  INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in §
56.003 shall be construed according to the respective definitions given
therein. Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in this
chapter but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in technical
usage shall be construed according to those meanings.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.007  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records, engineering and
scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or stormwater run-off
amounts may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater damage. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any officer,
representative or employee thereof, for any damage which may result from
reliance on this chapter or on any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
§ 56.020  APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all discharges, including illegal dumping,
entering the storm drain system under the control of the city, regardless of
whether the discharge originates from developed or undeveloped lands, and
regardless of whether the discharge is generated from an active construction
site or a stabilized site. These discharges include flows from direct
connections to the storm drain system, illegal dumping and contaminated run-
off.
   (B)   Any nonstormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver or
waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver or
order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain system,
is exempted from this section.
   (C)   Finally, any construction project which has had its drainage plan
approved by the city prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be
exempt from all requirements of this chapter that are in excess of the
requirements of ordinances in effect at the time of approval.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.021  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to a water body, directly or indirectly, any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge. Any person
discharging stormwater shall effectively prevent pollutants from also being
discharged with the stormwater, through the use of best management practices
(BMPs).
   (B)   The city is authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution
prevention measures, using BMPs, necessary to prevent or reduce the discharge
of pollutants into the city’s stormwater drainage system.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)  Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.022  EXEMPTED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements in this chapter, the following categories
of non-stormwater discharges or flows are exempted from the requirements of
this section:
   (A)   Water line flushing;
   (B)   Landscape irrigation;
   (C)   Diverted streamflows;
   (D)   Rising groundwaters;
   (E)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
   (G)   Discharges from potable water sources;
   (H)   Foundation drains;
   (I)   Air conditioning condensation;
   (J)   Irrigation water;
   (K)   Springs;
   (L)   Water from crawl space pumps;
   (M)   Footing drains;
   (N)   Residential and commercial lawn watering;
   (O)   Individual residential car washing;
   (P)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
   (Q)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
   (R)   Street wash water;
   (S)   Discharges from firefighting activities;
   (T)   Naturally introduced detritus (e.g., leaves and twigs); and
   (U)   Uncontaminated flows from roof drains.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.023  STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storing or stockpiling hazardous or toxic material within any drainageway,
or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly prohibited. Storing or
stockpiling hazardous or toxic material, including sewage treatment plant
stockpiles, on active construction sites must include adequate protection and/
or containment so as to prevent any materials from entering any temporary or
permanent stormwater conveyance or drainageway.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)  Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.024  PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   Every person owning property through which a drainageway passes, or that
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the drainageway located
within their property boundaries, free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation
and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the
flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall
maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that the structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)  Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.025  SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a water body any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the city Fire Department or Police Department concerning the discharge.
A written report concerning the discharge shall be filed with the city Fire
Department or Police Department by the dischargers, within five days. The
written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The exact date, time and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence; and
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name of a person who may be contacted for additional information on the
matter.
   (B)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for the discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)  Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.026  INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system.  The city will periodically inspect the portion
of the storm drainage system under the city’s control in an effort to detect
and eliminate illicit connections and discharges into the system. This
inspection will include a screening of discharges from outfalls connected to
the system in order to determine if prohibited flows are being released into
the storm drainage system. It could also include spot testing of waters from
the storm drainage system itself to detect the introduction of pollutants into
the system by means other than a defined outfall, such as dumping or
contaminated sheet run-off.
   (B)   Potential polluters.  If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the city may
inspect and/or obtain stormwater samples from stormwater run-off facilities of
the subject discharger to determine compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. Upon request, the discharger shall allow the city’s properly
identified representative to enter upon the premises of the discharger at all
hours necessary for the purposes of the inspection or sampling. The city shall
provide the discharger reasonable advance notice of the inspection and/or
sampling. The city or its properly identified representative may place on the
discharger’s property the equipment or devices used for the sampling or
inspection. Identified illicit connections or discharges shall be subject to
enforcement action as described in §§
56.105 through
56.110 of this chapter.
   (C)   New development and redevelopment.  Following approval of final
stormwater plans by the city, new development and redevelopment sites shall be
inspected by the city’s properly identified representative. This inspection
will be to ensure all on-site stormwater conveyances and connections to the
storm drainage system are in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT
§ 56.040  APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The storage and controlled release rate of excess stormwater run-off shall
be required for all new business, commercial and industrial developments,
residential subdivisions, planned development, rural estate subdivisions and
any redevelopment or other new construction located within the city. Possible
exceptions to the requirement are minor subdivisions and parcelization as
described in the zoning code of the city. The city, after thorough
investigation and evaluation, may waive the requirement of controlled run-off
for minor subdivisions and parcelization.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.041  POLICY ON STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that most streams and drainage channels serving the
city do not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey stormwater run-off
from continued urbanization. Accordingly, the storage and controlled release of
excess stormwater run-off shall be required for all developments and
redevelopments (as defined in §
56.003) located within the city. Release rate requirements, downstream
restriction considerations, acceptable outlet, adjoining property impact
considerations and compensatory floodplain storage rates are detailed in the
City of Lebanon Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (B)   (1)   The city Stormwater Management Board is authorized, but not
required, to classify certain geographical areas as “designated drainage
areas.” In determining designated drainage areas, the city  Stormwater
Management Board shall consider such factors as topography, soil type, capacity
of existing drains, and distance from adequate drainage facility. Land that
does not have an adequate outlet, taking into consideration the capacity and
depth of the outlet, may be designated as a designated drainage area by the
city Stormwater Management Board. Special terms and conditions for development
within any designated drainage area shall be included in the stormwater
management permit.
      (2)   The city Stormwater Management Board may establish an
infrastructure development fee (“IDF”) rate for a designated drainage area. The
city Stormwater Management Board may also waive an established infrastructure
development fee for consideration of land rights, construction costs, or other
agreeable interests.
      (3)   The magnitude of the IDF for a given parcel will be determined by
the declared IDF rate and the volume of detention storage necessary to prevent
an increase in downstream flow rates and/or upstream flooding elevations. A
master hydrologic and hydraulic model for the designated drainage area will be
developed and maintained under the direction of the city Stormwater Management
Board.
      (4)   All developments and redevelopments must submit a hydrologic model
with accompanying hydrologic parameter calculations for the parcel(s) being
developed. The model and hydrologic parameters  will be incorporated into the
master hydrologic and hydraulic models, under the direction of the city
Stormwater Management Board, to determine the detention storage necessary to
mitigate any detrimental effect of the development on the stormwater drainage
for the city. The resulting detention volume will be multiplied by the IDF rate
to establish the IDF for the development. The IDF rate established by the city
Stormwater Management Board shall be subject to approval by the Common Council
for the city.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.042  CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing and placement of all
stormwater facilities shall meet the design criteria, standards and
specifications outlined in the City of Lebanon Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. These methods and procedures are consistent with the policy stated
above.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.043  INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the city and
the commencement of construction activities, the city has the authority to
conduct inspections of the work being done to ensure full compliance with the
provisions of this section and the terms and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   Long term inspection and maintenance of stormwater quantity facilities
shall be the responsibility of the project site owner. All public and privately
owned stormwater quantity facilities will be inspected by representatives of
the project site owner, property owner or homeowners association, no less than
once every two years. A certified inspection report completed by a professional
engineer or licensed surveyor, which covers physical conditions, available
storage capacity and the operational condition of key facility elements, will
be provided to the city. Stormwater quantity facilities shall be maintained in
good condition in accordance with the terms and conditions of the approved
stormwater management permit, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised or
replaced except in accordance with the approved stormwater permit, or in
accordance with approved amendments or revisions to the permit. If deficiencies
are found during the inspection, the owner of the stormwater system will be
required to take all necessary measures to correct the deficiencies within 180
days. If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies within the allowed time
period, the city will undertake the work and collect from the owner using lien
rights if necessary.
   (C)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds, unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body,
and determined before the final stormwater permit is approved. Stormwater
detention/retention basins may be donated to the city or other unit of
government designated by the city for ownership and permanent maintenance
providing the city or other governmental unit is willing to accept
responsibility.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 56.055  APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The city will require a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP),
which includes erosion and sediment control measures and materials handling
procedures, to be submitted as part of the construction plans and
specifications. Any project located within the city that includes clearing,
grading, excavation and other land-disturbing activities, resulting in the
disturbance of one acre or more of total land area, is subject to the
requirements of this section. This includes both new development and
redevelopment. This section also applies to disturbances of less than one acre
of land that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the
larger common plan will ultimately disturb one or more acres of land, within
the MS4 area. Section
56.057 provides guidelines for calculating land disturbance.
   (B)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner must complete their own notice of intent
letter, apply for a stormwater permit from the city and ensure that a
sufficient construction and stormwater pollution prevention plan is completed
and submitted in accordance with §§
56.085 through
56.093 of this chapter; regardless of whether the individual lot is part of a
larger permitted project site.
   (C)   An individual lot with land disturbance less than one acre, located
within a larger permitted project site, is considered part of the larger
permitted project site, and the individual lot operator must comply with the
terms and conditions of the stormwater permit approved for the larger project
site. The stormwater permit application for the larger project site must
include detailed erosion and sediment control measures for individual lots.
These individual lots are not required to submit their own stormwater permit
application, but must obtain a stormwater review approval prior to receiving a
building permit. Details of the permitting process are contained in §§
56.085 through
56.093.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to city in accordance with §§
56.085 through
56.093 of this chapter. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner
to ensure compliance with this chapter during the construction activity and
implementation of the construction plan, and to notify the city with a
sufficient notice of termination letter upon completion of the project and
stabilization of the site. However, all persons engaging in construction and
land-disturbing activities on a permitted project site meeting the
applicability requirements must comply with the requirements of this section
and this chapter.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.056  POLICY ON STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is dependent
on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original position
(erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a waterbody
(sediment control) and proper on-site materials handling. The developer must
submit to the city a SWPPP with detailed erosion and sediment control plans as
well as a narrative describing materials handling and storage and construction
sequencing. The following principles apply to all land-disturbing activities
and should be considered in the preparation of a stormwater pollution
prevention plan within the city area.
   (A)   Minimize the potential for soil erosion by designing a development
that fits the topography and soils of the site. Deep cuts and fills in areas
with steep slopes should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible.
   (B)   Existing natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent (within 35 feet of top of bank) to
watercourses and lakes also should be left undisturbed wherever possible.
Unvegetated or vegetated areas with less than 70% cover that are scheduled or
likely to be left inactive for 15 days or more must be temporarily or
permanently stabilized with measures appropriate for the season to reduce
erosion potential. Alternative measures to site stabilization may be acceptable
if the project site owner or his or her representative can demonstrate he or
she has implemented and maintained erosion and sediment control measures
adequate to prevent sediment discharge from the inactive area.
   (C)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence so
that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
   (D)   The length and steepness of designed slopes should be minimized to
reduce erosion potential. Drainage channels and swales must be designed and
adequately protected so that their final gradients and resultant velocities
will not cause erosion in the receiving channel or at the outlet. Methods for
determining acceptable velocities are included (publication w/standards and
forms).
   (E)   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the project site
shall be treated by erosion and sediment control measures appropriate to
minimize sedimentation. A stable construction site access shall be provided at
all points of construction traffic ingress and egress to the project site.
   (F)   Appropriate measures shall be implemented to prevent wastes or unused
building materials, including, garbage, debris, packaging material, fuels and
petroleum products, hazardous materials or wastes, cleaning wastes, wastewater,
concrete truck washout and other substances from being carried from a project
site by run-off or wind. Identification of areas where concrete truck washout
is permissible must be clearly posted at appropriate areas of the site. Wastes
and unused building materials shall be managed and disposed of in accordance
with all applicable state statutes and regulations. Proper storage and handling
of materials such as fuels or hazardous wastes, and spill prevention and
cleanup measures shall be implemented to minimize the potential for pollutants
to contaminate surface or groundwater or degrade soil quality.
   (G)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment that is a result of run- off or tracking. Bulk clearing of accumulated
sediment shall not include flushing the area with water. Cleared sediment shall
be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in accordance with all
applicable statutes and regulations.
   (H)   Collected run-off leaving a project site must be either discharged
directly into a well-defined, stable receiving channel, or diffused and
released to adjacent property with out causing an erosion or pollutant problem
to the adjacent property owner.
   (I)   Natural features, including wetlands, shall be protected from
pollutants associated with stormwater run-off.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.057  CALCULATIONS, DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this section to the project, the following
guidelines should be used.
      (1)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water and other utilities) to a land-
disturbing project site, must be considered as a part of the total land
disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity is under the
control of the project site owner.
      (2)   Strip developments will be considered as one project site and must
comply with this section unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development or sale.
      (3)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this rule,
the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total area of
land disturbance for improvements, such as roads, utilities or common areas,
and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined by the
following:
         (a)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
one-half acre or more, one-half acre of land disturbance must be used as the
expected lot disturbance;
         (b)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
less than one-half acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed; and
         (c)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of projects
sites, such as industrial and commercial projects project sites, a minimum of
one acre of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance,
unless the lots are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot
must be calculated as being disturbed.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing and placement of
all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet
the design criteria, standards and specifications outlined in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual and the City of Lebanon Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual. The methods and procedures included are in keeping with the
above stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM’s Rule 5.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.058  INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Following approval of the stormwater management permit by the city,
and commencement of construction activities, the city has the authority to
conduct inspections of the site to ensure full compliance with the provisions
of this section, the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual and the terms and
conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   A self-monitoring program must be implemented by the project site
owner to ensure the stormwater pollution prevention plan is working
effectively. Monitoring of erosion and sediment control measures on individual
lots covered under the stormwater permit for a larger project must be included
in the self-monitoring program. An inspector, approved by the city, shall
perform a written evaluation of the project site by the end of the next
business day following each measurable storm event. If there are no measurable
storm events within a given week, the site should be monitored at least once in
that week. Weekly inspections shall continue until the entire site has been
stabilized and a notice of termination has been issued. The inspector should
look at the maintenance of existing stormwater pollution prevention measures,
including erosion and sediment control measures, drainage structures and
construction materials storage/containment facilities, to ensure they are
functioning properly. The inspector should also identify additional measures,
beyond those originally identified in the stormwater pollution prevention plan,
necessary to remain in compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations.
The resulting evaluation reports must include the name of the individual
performing the evaluation, the date of the evaluation, problems identified at
the project site, and details of maintenance, additional measures and
corrective actions recommended and completed.
   (C)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality, but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this section,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater run-off.
Recommendations by the inspector for modified stormwater quality measures
should be implemented.
   (D)   Although self-monitoring reports do not need to be submitted to the
city, the city has the right to request complete records of maintenance and
monitoring activities involving stormwater pollution prevention measures. All
evaluation reports for the project site must be made available to the city, in
an organized fashion, within 48 hours of a request.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 56.070  APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
56.055 through
56.058, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, which is to be submitted to
the city as part of the stormwater management permit application, must also
include post-construction stormwater quality measures.  These measures are
incorporated as a permanent feature into the site plan and are left in place
following completion of construction activities to continuously filter
stormwater run-off from the stabilized site. Any project located within the
city that includes clearing, grading, excavation and other land-disturbing
activities, resulting in the disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total
land area, is subject to the requirements of this section. This includes both
new development and redevelopment, and disturbances of less than one acre of
land that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger
common plan will ultimately disturb one or more acres of land within the MS4
area.
   (B)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land-disturbing activities;
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities;
      (3)   Construction activities associated with a single-family residential
dwelling disturbing less than five acres, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale;
      (4)   Single-family residential developments consisting of four or less
lots;
      (5)   A single-family residential strip development where the developer
offers for sale or lease without land improvements and the project is not part
of a larger common plan of development of sale; or
      (6)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
   (C)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10;
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34; and
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the state Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the city in accordance with §§
56.085 through
56.093 of this chapter. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner
to ensure proper construction and installation of all stormwater BMPs in
compliance with this chapter and with the approved stormwater management
permit, and to notify the city with a sufficient notice of termination letter
upon completion of the project and stabilization of the site. However, all
eventual property owners of stormwater quality facilities meeting the
applicability requirements must comply with the requirements of this section
and this chapter.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.071  POLICY ON STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   It is recognized that developed areas, as compared to undeveloped
areas, generally have increased imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates,
increased run-off rates and increased concentrations of pollutants such as
fertilizers, herbicides, greases, oil, salts and other pollutants. As new
development and redevelopment continues in the city area measures must be taken
to intercept and filter pollutants from stormwater run-off prior to reaching
regional creeks, streams and rivers in order to preserve fishable and swimmable
conditions. Through the use of best management practices (BMP), stormwater run-
off will be filtered and harmful amounts of sediment, nutrients and
contaminants will be removed. The project site owner must submit to the city, a
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) that would show placement of
appropriate BMP(s) from a pre-approved list of BMPs specified by the city.
   (B)   A minimum of 25 feet width of vegetative filter strip must be provided
along top-of-bank of all open ditches.
   (C)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate
practices to reduce lead, copper, zinc and polyaromatic hydrocarbons in
stormwater run-off. These requirements will apply to all new facilities and
existing facilities that replace their tanks.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.072  CALCULATIONS, DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
56.057.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs, shall meet the design
criteria, standards and specifications outlined in the City of Lebanon
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The methods and procedures included in
this reference are in keeping with the above stated policy and meet the
requirements of IDEM’s Rule 13.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.073  EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All stormwater quality management systems, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line fitters, infiltration systems,
conveyances, systems, structures and appurtenances located outside of the
right-of-way shall be incorporated into permanent easements.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.074  INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the city and
the commencement of construction activities, the city has the authority to
conduct inspections of the work being done to ensure full compliance with the
provisions of this section, the drainage and the terms and conditions of the
approved permit.
   (B)   Stormwater quality facilities shall be maintained in good condition,
in accordance with the operation and maintenance procedures and schedules
listed in the City of Lebanon Stormwater Technical Standards Manual and the
terms and conditions of the approved stormwater permit, and shall not be
subsequently altered, revised or replaced except in accordance with the
approved stormwater permit, or in accordance with approved amendments or
revisions in the permit. Following construction completion, inspection and
maintenance of stormwater quality facilities shall be the long-term
responsibility of the property owner. Assignment of responsibility for
maintaining stormwater quality facilities serving more than one lot or holding
shall be documented by appropriate covenants to property deeds, unless
responsibility is formally accepted by a public body, and determined before the
final stormwater permit is approved. Stormwater detention/retention basins may
be donated to the city, for ownership and permanent maintenance providing the
city or other governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
   (C)   All public and privately owned stormwater quality facilities will be
inspected by representatives of the project site owner no less than once a year
until the project is complete and the property changes hands. At that point,
the property owner assumes responsibility for having annual inspections of the
stormwater quality facilities completed. The inspections shall be completed by
an inspector, approved by the city, and will follow the operation and
maintenance procedures included in the City of Lebanon Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual and/or permit application for each specific BMP. The
inspection will cover physical conditions, available water quality storage
capacity and the operational condition of key facility elements. Noted
deficiencies and recommended corrective action will be included in an
inspection report. A copy of each inspection report will bo provided to the
city. If deficiencies are found during the inspection, the owner of the
stormwater quality facility will be required to take all necessary measures to
correct the deficiencies within 180 days. If the owner fails to correct the
deficiencies within the allowed time period, the city will undertake the work
and collect from the owner using lien rights, if necessary.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
§ 56.085  PRELIMINARY DRAINAGE APPROVALS.
   In order to gain an understanding of the drainage requirements for a
specific project, a developer may submit preliminary drainage plans and
calculations, certified by a licensed professional engineer or a licensed land
surveyor registered in the state for review by the city. A preliminary drainage
approval must be obtained prior to preliminary plat approval for subdivisions.
The direction provided by the city during a review is based on preliminary data
and shall not be construed as an approval or binding on either party. The
following is a general listing of minimum data requirements for the review of
preliminary drainage plans:
   (A)   Two complete sets of plans;
   (B)   Drainage narrative;
   (C)   Watershed boundaries with USGS contours or best information possible;
   (D)   Existing and proposed regulated drains;
   (E)   Drainage calculations to support narrative:
      (1)   Existing and proposed run-off;
      (2)   Existing and proposed curve number;
      (3)   Existing and proposed time of concentration; and
      (4)   Upstream and downstream restrictions.
   (F)   Letter of intent for obtaining any needed consents, off-site easements
or right-of-way;
   (G)   Topographic map of the project with layout; and
   (H)   Possible advance payment of the city’s professional fees incurred or
to be incurred for the review of the plans.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.086  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   This subchapter applies to all development or redevelopment of land that
results in land disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more. Individual lots with
land disturbance less than 10,000 square feet that are developed within a
larger permitted project site should refer to §§
56.055 through
56.058 for plan review requirements and procedures.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.087  INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.  Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or
part of the informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in
§§
56.020 and
56.070. If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements of this
chapter, an application should be filed listing the exemption criteria met, in
lieu of the information requirements listed below. This level of detailed
information is not required from individual lots, disturbing less than 10,000
square feet of land, developed within a larger permitted project site. Review
and approval of the lots is covered under §
56.088.
   (B)   Elements of permit submittal.  The different elements of a permit
submittal include a draft notice of intent (NOI), proof of publication of a
public notice, construction plans, a stormwater drainage technical report, a
stormwater pollution prevention plan for active construction sites, a post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan, and any other necessary
supporting information. All plans, reports, calculations, and narratives shall
be signed and sealed by a professional engineer or a licensed surveyor,
registered in the State of Indiana.
   (C)   Draft notice of intent.
      (1)   The NOI is a standard form developed by IDEM which requires general
project information. As part of the city stormwater management permit
application package, the NOI form should be completed in full based on data and
information available at the time of application.
      (2)   An updated version of this form, accompanied by proof of
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the affected area that
notified the public that a construction activity is to commence, will need to
be resubmitted later after the stormwater management permit is granted and at
least 48 hours prior to commencement of construction. The publication must
include the following language:
         (Company name, address) is submitting an NOI letter to notify the city
and the State Department of Environmental Management of our intent to comply
with the requirements of the city stormwater code, as well as the requirements
of 327 I.A.C. 15-5 and 327 I.A.C. 15-13, to discharge stormwater from
construction activities for the following project: (name of the construction
project, address of the location of the construction project). Run-off from the
project site will discharge to (stream(s) receiving the discharge(s)).
   (D)   Construction plans.  Construction plan sheets and an accompanying
narrative report shall describe and depict the existing and proposed
conditions. Note that in order to gain an understanding of and to evaluate the
relationship between the proposed improvements for a specific project section/
phase and the proposed improvements for an overall multi-section (phased)
project, the detailed information requested herein for the first section/phase
being permitted must be accompanied by an overall project plan that includes
the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of all detention/retention
facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet conditions. Construction
plans need to include items listed in the application checklist provided in the
City of Lebanon Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (E)   Stormwater drainage technical report.  A written stormwater drainage
technical report must contain a discussion of the steps taken in the design of
the stormwater drainage system. Note that in order to gain an understanding of
and to evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a
specified project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall
multi-section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for
the first section/phase being permitted must be accompanied by an overall
project plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of
all detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. The technical report needs to include items listed in the
application checklist provided in the City of Lebanon Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
   (F)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites.  For
sites with total disturbance of one acre or more, a stormwater pollution
prevention plan associated with construction activities must be designed to, at
least, meet the requirements of this chapter. The SWPPP and construction plans
must include the items listed in the application checklist provided in the City
of Lebanon Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. For land disturbances
totaling 10,000 square feet or more of land area but less than one acre,
appropriate erosion and sediment control measures that are consistent with the
City of Lebanon Technical Standards Manual must be designed and shown on the
plans.
   (G)   Post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan. For sites with
total land disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total land area, a
post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan must be designed to, at
least, meet the requirements of this chapter and must include the information
provided in the City of Lebanon Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
post- construction storm water pollution prevention plan must include items
listed in the application checklist provided in the City of Lebanon Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.088  REVIEW OF INDIVIDUAL LOTS WITHIN A PERMITTED PROJECT.
   (A)   Although no permit is required for individual lots disturbing less
than 10,000 square feet of land, developed within a larger permitted project, a
formal stormwater review will be required before a building permit can be
issued. All stormwater management measures necessary to comply with this
chapter must be implemented in accordance with permitted plan for the larger
project.
   (B)   The following information must be submitted to the city, for review
and approval, by the individual lot operator, whether owning the property or
acting as the agent of the property owner, prior to the issuance of a building
permit:
      (1)   A site layout for the subject lot and all adjacent lots showing
building pad location, dimensions and elevations and the drainage patterns and
swales;
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access;
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance;
         (c)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot;
         (d)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules;
         (e)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization; and
         (f)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
      (3)   Certification of compliance stating that the individual lot plan is
consistent with the stormwater management permit, as approved by the city, for
the larger project.
   (C)   The individual lot operator is responsible for installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.089  CHANGES TO PLANS.
   (A)   Any significant change or deviation in the detailed plans and
specifications after approval of the stormwater management permit shall be
filed in duplicate with, and approved by, the city prior to the land
development involving the change.
   (B)   Copies of the changes, if approved, shall be attached to the original
plans and specifications.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.090  FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Fee amounts.  As a condition of the submittal and the review of
development plans by the city, the applicant shall agree to pay the city the
actual costs incurred by the city with respect to the review of all drainage
submittals, preliminary plans, final plans and/or construction plans and
accompanying information and data.
   (B)   Time of payments.
      (1)   Before the meeting at which the city is scheduled to consider
approval of the applicant’s final stormwater management plan, the city will
furnish a written statement to the applicant specifying the total cost of
professional engineering fees incurred by the city in connection with the
review of the applicant’s submittals, plans and accompanying information and
data, including the total hours expended by the professional engineer and
support staff, and the amount required to be paid by applicant.
      (2)   As a condition of approval of final drainage plans by the city, the
applicant shall pay to the city the sum set forth in the statement. The city
may issue a billing statement before the project advances to the final approval
stage, and the payment is due by applicant upon receipt of the billing
statement regardless of whether the project is advanced to the final approval
stage.
      (3)   The city shall have the right to not accept the drainage
improvements or to not approve the advancement of any project for which the
professional engineering fees have not been paid.
   (C)   Method of payment.
      (1)   Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
         (a)   Certified check;
         (b)   Cashier’s check; or
         (c)   Money order.
      (2)   All checks shall be made payable to:
         City of Lebanon
         401 South Meridian Street
         Lebanon, IN 46052
   (D)   Refund of payment.  Fees are refundable only if the city determines
that compliance by the development to this chapter is not necessary.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.091  REQUIRED ASSURANCES.
   As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the city shall
require the applicant to provide assurance in form of an irrevocable letter of
credit or a bond when the stormwater management plan has been approved and
before construction begins. The assurance will guarantee a good faith execution
of the stormwater drainage plan, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, the
stormwater quality management plan and any permit conditions. The assurance
shall be for an amount equal to 100% of the total costs of all stormwater
management measures for the entire project. The above mentioned costs shall be
based on an estimate as prepared by a registered engineer or land surveyor. The
costs shall be for the installation and continuous monitoring and maintenance
of erosion control measures and the construction and continuous monitoring and
maintenance of storm drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities,
and stormwater quality BMPs, as regulated under this chapter. Assurances shall
be for a minimum of $500. Local governmental jurisdictions may require
additional performance and/or maintenance assurances. The intent of this
assurance is not only to complete the installation of storm drain
infrastructure for the project, but also to ensure that adequate stormwater
pollution prevention measures are properly installed and maintained. If
adequate assurances are set aside by the project site owner for the overall
project, proof of total assurance can be submitted in place of an individual
stormwater assurance.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.092  TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   In granting a stormwater management permit, the city may impose terms
and conditions as are reasonably necessary to meet the purposes of this
chapter. The project site owner shall ensure compliance with these terms and
conditions. Noncompliance with the terms and conditions of permits will be
subject to enforcement as described in §§
56.105 through
56.110.
   (B)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractor,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit
and the schedule for proposed implementation.
   (C)   In the event that a project site is determined to impact or discharge
to a sensitive area or is located in an impact drainage area, the city may
require more stringent stormwater quantity and quality measures than detailed
in this chapter or in the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.093  CERTIFICATION OF AS-BUILT PLANS.
   (A)   After completion of construction of the project and before final
acceptance of the improvements, a professionally prepared and certified as-
built set of plans shall be submitted to the city for review. Additionally, a
digital copy of the as-built plans is required in a format approved by the
city. These plans shall include all pertinent data relevant to the completed
storm drainage system and stormwater management facilities and shall include;
      (1)   Pipe size and pipe material;
      (2)   Invert elevations;
      (3)   Top rim elevations;
      (4)   Pipe structure lengths;
      (5)   BMP types, dimensions and boundaries/easement;
      (6)   “As-planted” plans for BMPs, as applicable;
      (7)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume;
      (8)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity; and
      (9)   Certified statement on plans stating the completed storm drainage
system and stormwater management facilities substantially comply with
construction plans and the stormwater management permit as approved by the
city. (See certificate in publication with standards and forms.)
   (B)   As-built plans shall be submitted to the city with a notice of
termination (NOT).
   (C)   The property owner, developer or contractor shall be required to file
a three-year maintenance bond or other acceptable guarantee with the city,
prior to acceptance, in an amount not to exceed 10% of the cost of the
stormwater drainage system located outside the public road rights-of-way, and
in a form satisfactory to the city’s Attorney, in order to assure that the
stormwater system installation was constructed according to standards of good
workmanship, that the materials used in the construction and installation were
of good quality and construction, and that the project was done in accordance
with the approved plans and this chapter. The bond or other acceptable
guarantee shall be in effect for a period of three years after the date of the
final project approval by the city.
   (D)   To verify that all storm drainage pipes are functioning properly,
visual recordings (via closed circuit television) of storm drains shall be
required, once following the completion of installation and the second time
before release of maintenance bonds, These visual recordings will be scheduled
by the city and paid for by the developer. Notices shall be provided to the
city within 72 hours following the completion of installation and again at
least 30 days prior to the expiration date of the maintenance bond so that the
noted recordings may be scheduled.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 56.105  COMPLIANCE.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with the
requirements set forth in local zoning regulations is also necessary.
Compliance with all applicable ordinances of the city as well, as with
applicable state statues and regulations shall also be required. Unless
otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in this chapter shall be
the most recent edition available. Violations of the requirements of this
chapter are subject to the penalties listed in §
56.999.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.106  STOP WORK ORDER.
   Whenever work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code or
approved final stormwater management plans, the city may order the work stopped
by notice in writing served on any person engaged in the doing or causing of
the work to be done, and any persons shall forthwith stop the work until
authorized by the city to proceed with the work. The city may also undertake or
cause to be undertaken, any necessary or advisable protective measures to
prevent violations of this chapter or to avoid or reduce the effects of
noncompliance herewith. The cost of any protective measures shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the property upon which the work is being done
and the responsibility of any person carrying out or participating in the work.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)  Penalty, see §
56.999
§ 56.107  FAILURE TO COMPLY OR COMPLETE.
   In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the city may, after giving notice and opportunity
for compliance, have the necessary work done, and the owner shall be obligated
to promptly reimburse the city for all costs of the work.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.108  SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.
   (A)   Suspension due to emergency situations.  The city may, without prior
notice, suspend storm drain system discharge access to a person when the
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the storm drain system or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take those steps
as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the storm drain system or
waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge.  Any person
discharging to the storm drain system in violation of this chapter may have
their storm drain system access terminated if the termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge. The city will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the city for a
reconsideration and hearing.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.109  CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking any other lawful
action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. Costs
include, but are not limited to, repairs to the storm drain system made
necessary by the violation, as well as those penalties levied by the EPA or
IDEM for violation of the city’s NPDES permit, attorney’s fees and other costs
and expenses.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 56.110  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person to whom any provision of this chapter has been applied may
appeal the action or decision to the city. The appeal must be made in writing
and shall be made no later than 30 days after the action or decision being
appealed. The appeal shall identify the matter being appealed, and the basis
for the appeal. The city shall consider the appeal and make a decision whereby
it affirms, rejects or modifies the action being appealed. In considering any
appeal, the city may consider the recommendations of the city and the comments
of other persons having knowledge of the matter.
   (B)   In considering any appeal, the city may grant a variance from the
terms of this chapter to provide relief, in whole or in part, from the action
being appealed, but only upon finding that the following requirements are
satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the chapter; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater run-off.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES FOR USERS OF THE STORMWATER SYSTEM
§ 56.125  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply;
words used in the singular shall include the plural and the plural, the
singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. The
word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary. The word MAY is permissive.
Words not defined herein shall be construed to have the meanings given by
common and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster’s
Dictionary.
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY.  Any lot or parcel of land altered from its natural
state by the construction, creation or addition of impervious area, except
public rights-of-way.
   EDU (EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT).  Each residential property is equal to one
EDU. For nonresidential properties, an EDU is equal to 3,000 square feet of
impervious area.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA.  Any part of any developed property that has been modified
by the action of persons to reduce the land’s natural ability to absorb and
hold rainfall. This includes any hard surface area which either prevents or
retards the entry of water into the soil mantle as it entered under natural
conditions pre-existent to development. By way of example, COMMON IMPERVIOUS
AREAS include, but are not limited to, rooftops, walkways, patios, driveways,
parking lots or storage areas, concrete or asphalt paving, gravel roads or any
cleared, graded, paved, graveled or compacted surface or packed earthen
materials, or areas covered with structures of other surfaces which similarly
impede the natural infiltration of surface water into the soil mantle.
   LOT.  The smallest separately, segregated parcel, unit or plat of land
having an identified owner, boundaries and surface area which is documented for
property tax purposes.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. All properties not encompassed within the
definition of residential property, including but not limited to, commercial,
industrial, retail, multifamily, governmental, institutional, schools and
churches.
   PERSON.  Any natural individual, corporation, partnership, institution or
other entity.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.  Any lot or parcel existing within the city service
area on which resides a single-family dwelling unit shall be considered
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   STORMWATER.  The chemical compound of hydrogen and oxygen which is produced
from atmospheric clouds as rain, snow, sleet and hail.
   STORMWATER AVAILABILITY FEES.  The charge to a user for a new or additional
connection to the city’s stormwater system, charged in return for the city
making available to the user the city’s stormwater system consisting of all
facilities, operations and maintenance activities.
   STORMWATER DEPARTMENT USER FEE.  A charge imposed on users of the city’s
stormwater system.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM.  All constructed facilities, including structures and
natural watercourses under the ownership and/or control of the city, used for
collecting and conducting stormwater to, through and from drainage areas to the
point of final outlet, including, but not limited to, any and all of the
following: inlets, conduits and appurtenant features, creeks, channels, catch
basins, ditches, streams, streets, culverts, retention or detention basins; and
excluding therefrom any part of the system of drains and watercourses under the
jurisdiction of the County Drainage Board or waters of the state.
   SURFACE WATER.  Water occurring on the surface of the land, from natural
causes such as rainfall, whether falling on the land in question or flowing
onto the land in question.
   UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY.  That which has not been altered from its natural
state by the addition of any improvements such as a building, structure or
impervious surface, change of grade or landscaping.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-14-2007; Ord. 07-08, passed - - ; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-
26-2015)
§ 56.126  STORMWATER DEPARTMENT USER FEE.
   A Stormwater Department user fee shall be imposed on all property within the
city, including those classified as non-profit or tax-exempt, for services and
facilities, provided by the Stormwater Department. This user fee is deemed
reasonable and is necessary to pay for the repair, replacement, planning,
improvement, operation, regulation and maintenance of the existing and future
stormwater system for the city.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-14-2007; Ord. 07-08, passed - - ; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-
26-2015)
§ 56.127  STORMWATER DEPARTMENT USER FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Generally.  For the purposes stated herein, there is hereby assessed a
Stormwater Department user fee to each Stormwater Department user within the
surface water collection system of the city, in an amount as determined below.
For purposes of imposing the Stormwater Department user fee, all lots and
parcels within the collection system service area are classified as either:
      (1)   Residential;
      (2)   Nonresidential; or
      (3)   Undeveloped.
   (B)   Commercially owned residential property and subdivision development.
      (1)   All commercially owned residential property shall be billed to the
property owner not the renter or leasing tenant. All commercially owned
property shall be figured using the impervious area method unless the property
is a single-family dwelling unit converted to a duplex or other multifamily
property. In these cases where the existing structures have not been expanded
from the original state, the property owner shall be billed one EDU. In cases
where the property structures have been expanded to accommodate multifamily
dwellings then the property shall be billed using impervious area.
      (2)   In the case of subdivision development the developer shall be
charged the undeveloped property rate until the subdivision improvements have
been completed. The developer will then be billed for those approved
improvements. Example is the clubhouse and pool area, drive, sidewalks and road
structures. Triggers for activating the changes will be building permits.
Developers can subdivide the subdivision into sections so that each section may
be phased from the undeveloped property into residential or non-development.
Each section will then be treated as a separate property and billing.
      (3)   As builders buy a lot from a developer they will become responsible
for the lot’s stormwater fee. The fee will be figured using the same format
used for developers.
   (C)   Residential properties.  Monthly fees for residential properties
located within the surface water collection system are hereby established as
one EDU multiplied by the base rate.
   (D)   Nonresidential properties.  Monthly fees for nonresidential properties
located within the collection system service area are hereby established as the
number of EDU each contains multiplied by the base rate. The number of EDUs is
determined by dividing the total amount of impervious area by 3,000 square
feet, rounding the resulting calculated EDU to the next whole number, with two
being the lowest whole number for each purpose.
   (E)   Undeveloped properties.  Monthly fees for undeveloped properties
located within the corporate boundary of the city are hereby established as
$0.10 per acre, rounding to the next whole ten-acre increment, with a minimum
charge being equal to the herein established base rate.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-14-2007; Ord. 07-08, passed - - ; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-
26-2015)
§ 56.128  FEE ESTABLISHMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Stormwater Department user fee shall be based on the relative
contribution of surface and stormwater run-off from a given parcel to the
city’s stormwater system. This Stormwater Department user fee rate is designed
to recover and be able to pay the cost of rendering stormwater service to the
users of the stormwater system, and shall be the basis for assessment of the
city’s Stormwater Department user fee. This rate is established so as to
maintain adequate fund reserves to provide for reasonably expected variations
in the cost of providing services, as well as variation in the demand for
services. This rate shall be evaluated annually as to its sufficiency to
satisfy the needs of the Stormwater Department.
   (B)   The following methods may be used to determine the nonresidential
factors:
      (1)   Computation of the parcel size or impervious area using on-site
measurements of the apparent outside boundaries of the parcel or impervious
area in or on the developed parcel, respectively, made by the city or on its
behalf;
      (2)   Computation of the parcel size or impervious area using the
dimensions of the parcel or impervious area in or on the parcels which are set
forth and contained in the records of the office of the County Assessor;
      (3)   Estimation, calculation and computation of the parcel size or
impervious area using aerial photography or photogrammetry, or using the
information and data from on-site measurements of like or similar property or
features or as contained in the records of the city or county; or
      (4)   Computation of parcel size or impervious area using data provided
by the owner, tenant or developer. The authorized official may require
additional information as necessary to make the determination.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-14-2007; Ord. 07-08, passed - - ; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-
26-2015)
§ 56.129  SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   The Stormwater Department user fee base rate shall be implemented as
follows:
   (A)   The base rate per month shall be $3 and shall become effective, on the
utility bills distributed beginning in January, 2008; and
   (B)   The base rate shall increase in the amount of $0.25 per year to a
final cap of $5.
   (C)   The base rate shall increase in the amount of $0.25/EDU/month in 2017;
$0.25/EDU/month in 2021, and $0.25/EDU/month in 2025.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-14-2007; Ord. 07-08, passed - - ; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-
26-2015; Ord. 2016-07, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 56.130  BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   Rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the city in the
manner provide by law and ordinance:
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly;
   (B)   The rates and charges shall be billed to the owner of the properties
served; and
   (C)   As provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which the rates or
charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the
bill.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-14-2007; Ord. 07-08, passed - - ; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-
26-2015)
§ 56.131  ADJUSTMENT OF FEES.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the city, after being approved by
the Common Council, shall among other things provide for an appeal procedure
whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Administrator
of the Stormwater Management Board.
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-14-2007; Ord. 07-08, passed - - ; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-
26-2015)
§ 56.132  STORMWATER REVENUE FUND.
   (A)   All revenues earned and fees collected for stormwater service,
including but not limited to, department user fees, availability fees,
penalties assessed by this chapter or subsequent amendments, or interest
earnings on any unused funds shall be deposited in an account entitled City
Stormwater Revenue Fund and shall be subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23,
as amended. Funds from this account shall not revert to any other utility or
the General Fund of the city and may not be transferred for any other purpose.
To the extent that there are outstanding revenue bonds of the city issued
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended, revenues deposited in
the Stormwater Revenue Fund shall be subject to the covenants contained in the
ordinance or ordinances authorizing the outstanding bonds. Disbursements from
the Stormwater Revenue Fund shall be authorized by the City Clerk-Treasurer
and, as required by law, the Common Council.
   (B)   These disbursements shall be used exclusively for the operation,
maintenance and improvement of the city’s Stormwater Department, which
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Stormwater management services, such as studies, design, permit
review, plan preparation and development review;
      (2)   Operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the stormwater
collection, storage, conveyance and/or treatment infrastructure;
      (3)   Project costs related to constructing major or minor structural
improvements to the city’s stormwater system;
      (4)   Administrative costs associated with the management of the
Stormwater Department;
      (5)   Debt service financing of the city’s stormwater-related capital
improvements; and
      (6)   Funding of studies such as water quantity and quality monitoring,
aerial photography and geotechnical work associated with the planning of the
stormwater-related infrastructure;
(Ord. 07-07, passed 5-14-2007; Ord. 07-08, passed - - ; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-
26-2015)
§ 56.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
56.001 through 56.009,
56.020 through
56.026,
56.040 through
56.043,
56.055 through
56.058,
56.070 through
56.074,
56.085 through
56.093 and
56.105 through
56.110 shall be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a fine of not
less than $5,000 for a first offense, and not less than $10,000 for a
subsequent offense, plus costs, damages and expenses. Each day a violation
occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall make the
violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and
remedies provided for in this section are cumulative and in addition to any
other remedies provided by law. An admission or determination of responsibility
shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this
chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation
of the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within 12 months
of a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for which the
person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
   (C)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not
less than $1,000 or imprisonment in the local jail for not more than three
months, or both a fine and imprisonment, shall also pay costs as may be imposed
in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-26-2015)
CHAPTER 57:  COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
57.01   Purpose
   
57.02   Telecommunications Division
Broadband Over Power Line Service and Wireless Internet Service
   
57.15   Broadband over power line service
   
57.16   Wireless internet service
   
57.17   Non-recurring charges
   
57.18   Adjustment in rates and charges
   
57.19   Definitions
   
57.20   Rate schedules
   
57.21   Application or contract
   
57.22   Rates schedules and character of service
   
57.23   Termination of service
   
57.24   Payment for service
   
57.25   Taxes and fees
   
57.26   Refusal or discontinuance of service
   
57.27   Restoration of service interruptions
   
57.28   Telecommunications Division equipment and customer owned equipment
   
57.29   Unlawful or illegal use of Telecommunications Division services or
facilities
   
57.30   Limitations
   
57.31   Collection of delinquent accounts
   
57.32   Rates and charges; fiber optic facilities
   
57.33   Refusal or discontinuance of service
Cross-reference:
   Business regulations, see Title XI
   Lebanon Utility Service Board, see
Chapter 52
   Licenses and miscellaneous business regulations, see
Chapter 110
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 57.01  PURPOSE.
   The Common Council hereby finds and determines that the power to acquire,
construct, improve, control, operate and maintain a communications system is
necessary or desirable in the conduct of the affairs of the city.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 57.02  TELECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION.
   (A)   To the extent there is no constitutional or statutory provision
requiring a specific manner for exercising the power to acquire, construct,
improve, control, operate and maintain a communications system, the Common
Council hereby prescribes that the specific manner for exercising the power to
acquire, construct, improve, control, operate and maintain a communications
system shall be as follows.
      (1)   A separate operating division of the city to be known the
Telecommunications Division is hereby established for purposes of acquiring,
constructing, improving, controlling, operating and maintaining a
communications system. The revenues and expenses of the Telecommunications
Division shall be accounted for separately, and all revenues of the
Telecommunications Division shall be deposited into a separate fund hereby
created and designated as the Telecommunications Fund of the city.
      (2)   The operations of the Telecommunications Division and the
acquisition, construction, improvement, control, operation and maintenance of
the communications system shall be administered by the Utility Service Board of
the city (the “USB”). The USB shall approve all contracts related thereto and
all expenditures from the Telecommunications Fund.
      (3)   All service charges and user fees for the communications system
shall be established by ordinance of the Common Council of the city. No service
charge or user fee shall be greater than that reasonably related to reasonable
and just rates and charges for services for the communications system.
      (4)   Any bonds, notes or other indebtedness incurred in connection with
the Telecommunications Division shall be authorized and approved by the Common
Council of the city in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Any officer of the city shall be, and hereby is, authorized, empowered
and directed, on behalf of the city, to take any actions as the officer deems
necessary or desirable to effectuate this section, and any actions heretofore
taken are hereby ratified and approved.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 8-9-2004)
BROADBAND OVER POWER LINE SERVICE AND WIRELESS INTERNET SERVICE
§ 57.15  BROADBAND OVER POWER LINE SERVICE.
   The following rates and charges are hereby adopted as and for the rates and
charges to be used by the Telecommunications Division when charging customers
for BPL service.
   (a)   Residential service.
      (1)   Installation fee.  A one-time installation fee of $150. Customers
may install service themselves at no charge.
      (2)   Modem fee.  A one-time fee of $ 150, or a monthly charge of $8,
will be assessed for rental and use of a power-line communications modem.
      (3)   Set-up fee.  A one-time fee of $30 for set-up and activation of
service.
      (4)   Monthly access fee.  A monthly access fee of $29.95.
      (5)   Additional email accounts.  A monthly fee of $5 for additional
email accounts in blocks of five above the amount provided at no charge (five
residential and ten commercial).
      (6)   Block of static IP addresses.  A monthly charge of $20 for a block
of eight static IP addresses (five public).
      (7)   Internet service call.  Will consist of a trip fee of $30 and for
labor at $60 per hour with a one-hour minimum for repairs to damaged
Telecommunications Division equipment, or when a technician is dispatched for
service and the problem is not caused by the Telecommunications Division’s
equipment for facilities. Also, the Telecommunications Division, at its
discretion may provide on-site service for customer-owned equipment if
requested by the customer at the aforementioned rate. Upgrades to or
replacement of undamaged but defective or malfunctioning Telecommunications
Division-provided equipment does not involve a labor charge.
      (8)   Internet extra parts fee. At cost plus 15% to incorporate charges
for damaged Telecommunications Division equipment or for parts that are not
associated with the standard installation.
      (9)   Internet extra setup fee.  A fee of $60 per hour with a one-hour
minimum to cover a non-standard installation excluding post setting and
ethernet line burying. This fee includes, but is not limited to, interior wall
penetrations, attic or crawlspace setups.
   (B)   Basic commercial service (one MB or less).
      (1)   Installation fee.  A one-time installation fee of $150. Customers
may install service themselves at no charge.
      (2)   Modem fee.  A one-time fee of $150, or a monthly charge of $8, will
be assessed for rental and use of a power-line communications modem.
      (3)   Set-up fee.  A one-time fee of $30 for set-up and activation of
service.
      (4)   Monthly access fee.  A monthly access fee of $69.95 for commercial
customers, using one MB or less.
      (5)   Additional email accounts.  A monthly fee of $5 for additional
email accounts in blocks of five above the amount provided at no charge (five
residential and ten commercial).
      (6)   Block of static IP addresses.  A monthly charge of $20 for a block
of eight static IP addresses (five public).
      (7)   Internet service call.  Will consist of a trip fee of $30 and for
labor at $60 per hour with a one hour minimum for repairs to damaged
Telecommunications Division equipment, or when a technician is dispatched for
service and the problem is not caused by the Telecommunications Division’s
equipment for facilities. Also, the Telecommunications Division, at its
discretion may provide on-site service for customer-owned equipment if
requested by the customer at the aforementioned rate. Upgrades to or
replacement of undamaged but defective or malfunctioning Telecommunications
Division-provided equipment does not involve a labor charge.
      (8)   Internet extra parts fee. At cost plus 15% to incorporate charges
for damaged Telecommunications Division equipment or for parts that are not
associated with the standard installation.
      (9)   Internet extra setup fee.  A fee of $60 per hour with a one-hour
minimum to cover a non-standard installation excluding post setting and
ethernet line burying. This fee includes, but is not limited to, interior wall
penetrations, attic or crawlspace setups.
   (C)   Commercial point-to-point service (greater than one MB).  Customers
using point-to-point service must pay an installation fee at a labor rate of
$120 per hour, in addition to monthly charges for equipment and bandwidth,
which will vary depending on the application.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005; Ord. 08-09, passed 8-25-2008)
§ 57.16  WIRELESS INTERNET SERVICE.
   The following rates and charges are hereby adopted as and for the rates and
charges to be used by the Telecommunications Division when charging customers
for wireless internet service.
   (A)   Residential service.
      (1)   Installation fee.  A one-time installation fee of $220 for standard
installation on outside wall only.
      (2)   Equipment fee.  A monthly charge of $20 will be assessed for rental
and use of radio equipment.
      (3)   Set-up fee.  A one-time fee of $30 for set-up and activation of
service.
      (4)   Monthly access fee.  A monthly access fee of $29.95.
      (5)   Additional email accounts.  A monthly fee of $5 for additional
email accounts in blocks of five above the amount provided at no charge (five
residential and ten commercial).
      (6)   Block of static IP addresses.  A monthly charge of $20 for a block
of eight static IP addresses (five public).
      (7)   Internet service call.  Will consist of a trip fee of $30 and for
labor at $60 per hour with a one hour minimum for repairs to damaged
Telecommunications Division equipment, or when a technician is dispatched for
service and the problem is not caused by the Telecommunications Division’s
equipment for facilities. Also, the Telecommunications Division, at its
discretion may provide on-site service for customer-owned equipment if
requested by the customer at the aforementioned rate. Upgrades to or
replacement of undamaged but defective or malfunctioning Telecommunications
Division-provided equipment does not involve a labor charge.
      (8)   Internet extra parts fee. At cost plus 15% to incorporate charges
for damaged Telecommunications Division equipment or for parts that are not
associated with the standard installation.
      (9)   Internet extra setup fee.  A fee of $60 per hour with a one-hour
minimum to cover a non-standard installation excluding post setting and
ethernet line burying. This fee includes, but is not limited to, interior wall
penetrations, attic or crawlspace setups.
   (B)   Basic commercial service (one MB or less).
      (1)   Installation fee.  A one-time installation fee of $220 for standard
installation on outside wall only.
      (2)   Equipment fee.  A monthly charge of $20 will be assessed for rental
and use of radio equipment.
      (3)   Set-up fee.  A one-time fee of $30 for set-up and activation of
service.
      (4)   Monthly access fee.  A monthly access fee of $69.95 for commercial
customers, using one MB or less.
      (5)   Additional email accounts.  A monthly fee of $5 for additional
email accounts in blocks of five above the amount provided at no charge (five
residential and ten commercial).
      (6)   Block of static IP addresses.  A monthly charge of $20 for a block
of eight static IP addresses (five public).
      (7)   Internet service call.  Will consist of a trip fee of $30 and for
labor at $60 per hour with a one hour minimum for repairs to damaged
Telecommunications Division equipment, or when a technician is dispatched for
service and the problem is not caused by the Telecommunications Division’s
equipment for facilities. Also, the Telecommunications Division, at its
discretion may provide on-site service for customer-owned equipment if
requested by the customer at the aforementioned rate. Upgrades to or
replacement of undamaged but defective or malfunctioning Telecommunications
Division-provided equipment does not involve a labor charge.
      (8)   Internet extra parts fee. At cost plus 15% to incorporate charges
for damaged Telecommunications Division equipment or for parts that are not
associated with the standard installation.
      (9)   Internet extra setup fee.  A fee of $60 per hour with a one-hour
minimum to cover a non-standard installation excluding post setting and
ethernet line burying. This fee includes, but is not limited to, interior wall
penetrations, attic or crawlspace setups.
   (C)   Commercial point-to-point service (greater than one MB).  Customers
using point-to-point service must pay an installation fee at a labor rate of
$120 per hour, in addition to monthly charges for equipment and bandwidth,
which will vary depending on the application.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005; Ord. 08-09, passed 8-25-2008)
§ 57.17  NON-RECURRING CHARGES.
   In addition to the rates and charges set forth in §§
57.15 and
57.16, the following non-recurring charges are hereby adopted for use by the
Telecommunications Division:
 
Service                                Fee
Disconnect for non-payment             $20
                                       A late payment charge of 3% of all
Late payment charge                    amounts outstanding will be charged if
                                       the bill is not paid within 17 days
                                       following the mailing of the bill
Returned check fee                     $25
Same account reactivation (after
disconnection or customer-requested    $30
temporary service interruption of less
than 90 days)
 
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.18  ADJUSTMENT IN RATES AND CHARGES.
   Any proposed upward adjustment in the rates and charges set forth above is
subject to approval by the Common Council.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.19  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT.  A lot or parcel of real estate under common ownership on which
one or more buildings are situated containing a total of eight or more separate
inhabitable dwelling units with facilities intended primarily for living,
sleeping, cooking and eating, but excluding any nursing care or similar
facility.
   BASIC COMMERCIAL SERVICE CLASS.  Includes customers not encompassed within
the residential service class, including commercial and industrial customers,
whose service requirements are one MB or less.
   BLOCK OF STATIC IP ADDRESS.  A set of IP addresses or internet protocol
addresses that certain electronic devices use in order to identify and
communicate with each other on a computer network and the type which do not
change or remain static.
   COMMERCIAL POINT-TO-POINT SERVICE CLASS.  Include customers not encompassed
within the residential service class, including commercial and industrial
customers, whose service requirements exceed one MB.
   CUSTOMER.  The person, firm, corporation or other entity which has entered
into an agreement with the Telecommunications Division under which it will
receive BPL or wireless internet service.
   EMAIL ACCOUNTS.  Electronic mail accounts to which messages can be sent
often containing a unique name that the holder of the account designates and a
domain name of the provider hosting the account.
   MULTIFAMILY RESIDENCE.  A lot or parcel of real estate under common
ownership on which one or more buildings are situated containing two or more,
but less than eight, separate inhabitable dwelling units with facilities
intended primarily for living, sleeping, cooking and eating, including without
limitation condominium units.
   RESIDENTIAL SERVICE CLASS.  Includes customers whose premises or building is
used primarily as a residence for one or more persons (which shall include only
single-family residences, multifamily residences and apartments) and whose
service requirements are one MB or less.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE.  A lot or parcel of real estate on which a building
is situated containing a group of rooms forming a single inhabitable dwelling
unit with facilities intended primarily for living, sleeping, cooking and
eating.
   STANDARD WIRELESS INSTALLATION.  Includes:
      (1)   One wireless radio;
      (2)   A stinger or dish if necessary;
      (3)   One mounting foot, if necessary, attached to a customer provided
house, building, post or pole that is deemed safe by the installer;
      (4)   Up to 330 feet of direct bury Cat 5 cable run from the wireless
radio to the customer’s equipment and if necessary to be buried by the
customer;
      (5)   One grounding device outside the house at the entry point grounded
with an eight-foot ground rod;
      (6)   One sealed exterior wall penetration terminating at a wall box with
ethernet jack, if possible; and
      (7)   One ethernet cable from the wall jack to the customer’s equipment.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION.  The Telecommunications Division managed by
Lebanon Utilities, a municipally owned utility located in the city.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005; Ord. 08-09, passed 8-25-2008)
§ 57.20  RATE SCHEDULES.
   Copies of all available rate schedules and the terms and conditions of
service are on file at the business office of Lebanon Utilities. The terms and
conditions of service set forth the conditions under which services are to be
rendered, and governs all classes of service to the extent applicable. In case
of conflict between any provision of the rate schedules and the terms and
conditions of service, the provisions of the rate schedules shall prevail.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.21  APPLICATION OR CONTRACT.
   (A)   A written application or contract may be required by the
Telecommunications Division before service will be provided, which, when
accepted by the Telecommunications Division, shall, along with these terms and
conditions of service, constitute the contract between it and customer. The
Telecommunications Division shall have the right to reject an application for
any valid reason.
   (B)   No promises, agreements or representations of an agent or an employee
of the Telecommunications Division shall be binding unless those promises,
agreements or representations were incorporated into a written contract. The
benefits and obligations under any contract shall be binding upon the
successors and assigns, survivors and executors or administrators, as the case
may be, of the original parties for the full term of the contract; provided,
however, that no assignment shall be made by customer without first obtaining
the Telecommunications Division’s prior written consent. The Telecommunications
Division may require the successor either to execute an assignment agreement
wherein the successor-customer assumes and agrees to be bound by the original
contract with the Telecommunications Division, or execute a new contract for
service.
   (C)   In case of conflict between any provision of a written application or
contract and these terms and conditions of service, the provisions of the
written application or contract shall prevail.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.22  RATES SCHEDULES AND CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   The Telecommunications Division, in its sole discretion, will assign
customers to the residential service class, basic commercial service class or
the commercial point-to-point service class depending on the customer’s
characteristics and service requirements. Customers located within the assigned
service area boundaries of the municipal electric utility operated by Lebanon
Utilities will be eligible to receive BPL service. Customers located outside
the assigned service area boundaries of the municipal electric utility operated
by Lebanon Utilities will be eligible to receive wireless internet service, so
long as the Telecommunications Division is able to reach the customer with its
wireless signal and the customer is located within Boone County or six miles
from the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.23  TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   In some instances, the contract between the Telecommunications Division and
customer will specify the parties’ agreement regarding term of service. The
contract term may be a period of between one and five years. In some instances,
service may be provided on a month-to-month basis with no written contractual
agreement or where the term of the contract is not specified.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.24  PAYMENT FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Bills for service will be rendered monthly at intervals of
approximately 30 days and are payable at the office of Lebanon Utilities. Bills
will be subject to a late payment charge when not paid within 17 days following
the mailing of the bill. When the seventeenth day falls on Sunday or on any
legal holiday, the first business day thereafter shall be added to the 17-day
period.
   (B)   Failure to receive a bill shall not entitle the customer to pay the
bill after the designated due date has passed. Upon request, the
Telecommunications Division will inform the customer of the approximate date on
which the customer should receive the bill each month and, if the bill is lost,
the Telecommunications Division will issue a duplicate.
   (C)   When the Telecommunications Division is required to re-process a check
rendered for payment of a customer’s bill due to non-sufficient funds, a
returned check fee shall be added to customer’s billing.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.25  TAXES AND FEES.
   The customer shall pay all taxes, fees, charges or impositions which may be
levied by any governmental authority on the service and facilities which may be
provided, including taxes, fees, charges or impositions which may be imposed
after the date of any contractual arrangement between customer and the
Telecommunications Division, and further agrees that the Telecommunications
Division may include such amounts in its billings to customer for services.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.26  REFUSAL OR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The Telecommunications Division may refuse or discontinue service to
customer under the following conditions:
   (A)   For failure to pay any amounts owed to the Telecommunications Division
when due;
   (B)   For noncompliance with or violation of any state, municipal or federal
law, ordinance or regulation;
   (C)   For use of service for any other property or purpose other than as
described in the contract between customer and the Telecommunications Division;
   (D)   For neglect or refusal to provide reasonable access to the
Telecommunications Division or its agents for the purpose of inspection and
maintenance of equipment owned by the Telecommunications Division;
   (E)   For violation of any of these terms and conditions of service or a
term set forth in the contract between customer and the Telecommunications
Division;
   (F)   For use of equipment in a manner as to adversely affect the equipment
of the Telecommunications Division or its services to others;
   (G)   For tampering with equipment owned by the Telecommunications Division;
and
   (H)   For unauthorized or fraudulent use of service.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.27  RESTORATION OF SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
   The Telecommunications Division shall use reasonable efforts to maintain the
facilities and equipment that it furnishes to the customer. The
Telecommunications Division will, at all times, endeavor to provide regular and
uninterrupted service, but does not guarantee against variations in service
characteristics or interruptions in service, occasioned by acts of God, orders
of public authorities, electric outages, fires, strikes, casualty, and
necessity for making repairs or replacements of the Telecommunications
Division’s facilities, or any other causes not within the reasonable control of
the Telecommunications Division. The Telecommunications Division will endeavor
to respond promptly to the customer’s location and restore any interruption of
the services as soon as practicable after the Telecommunications Division
receives notice from customer of the service interruption. Access to
Telecommunications Division equipment on customer’s property may be required to
restore service.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.28  TELECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION EQUIPMENT AND CUSTOMER OWNED EQUIPMENT.
   The customer will not, nor will customer permit others, to rearrange,
disconnect, remove and attempt to repair, or otherwise interfere with any of
the facilities or equipment installed by the Telecommunications Division,
except upon prior written consent. The Telecommunications Division shall not be
responsible for the installation, testing, operation, maintenance, repair and
replacement of any customer-provided equipment required for the customer’s
interconnection with or use of the services. The customer is responsible for
ensuring that customer-provided equipment is compatible with the
Telecommunications Division’s equipment and facilities. The Telecommunications
Division will provide the customer with any required information and reasonable
technical assistance to facilitate the compatibility. The responsibility of the
Telecommunications Division shall be limited to the furnishing, operation and
maintenance of facilities and equipment furnished by the Telecommunications
Division for the service(s) outlined in the contract between the customer and
the Telecommunications Division. It is understood that the Telecommunications
Division may provide assistance beyond the Telecommunications Division-owned
facilities as a matter of customer service, but that the Telecommunications
Division is not required to do so and assumes no responsibility for other
facilities or equipment. The customer is responsible for any damage to the
Telecommunications Division equipment, unless it is determined to be caused by
improper Telecommunications Division installation. The customer will be billed
the applicable fees to cover the cost of any necessary repairs.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005; Ord. 08-09, passed 8-25-2008)
§ 57.29  UNLAWFUL OR ILLEGAL USE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS DIVISION SERVICES OR
FACILITIES.
   The customer shall not use the services or facilities provided by the
Telecommunications Division for any unlawful or illegal purpose and agrees to
indemnify and hold the Telecommunications Division harmless from any loss or
damage arising from use.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 57.30  LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as expressly provided in a contractual agreement between
customer and the Telecommunications Division, the Telecommunications Division
makes no warranties, expressed or implied, relating to its services and
facilities and expressly disclaims any implied warranties or warranties imposed
by law, including, but not limited to, warranties of merchantability and
fitness for a particular purpose. In no event shall the Telecommunications
Division be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or
exemplary damages relating to or arising from the provision of services to
customer, including, without limitation, damages based on loss of revenues,
profits or business opportunities, whether or not the Telecommunications
Division has or should have had any knowledge, actual or constructive, that the
damages might be incurred.
   (B)   The customer agrees to indemnify and hold the Telecommunications
Division harmless for any loss or expense, including attorney’s fees, arising
from damage to equipment or injury to persons related to the services and
facilities provided by the Telecommunications Division, except any loss, damage
or expense arising directly from the act or omission of the Telecommunications
Division.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.31  COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Upon the customer’s failure to pay any sum due, the Telecommunications
Division shall be entitled use all collection efforts to collect the sum. If
suit is required for the collection and/or to enforce the terms of a
contractual agreement between the customer and the Telecommunications Division,
the Telecommunications Division also shall be entitled to collect all costs of
collection, including reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 57.32  RATES AND CHARGES; FIBER OPTIC FACILITIES.
   The following rates and charges are hereby adopted as and for the rates and
charges to be used by the Telecommunications Division when charging commercial
or residential customers for the custom installation of fiber optic facilities:
   (A)   Installation fee.  Determined by the Telecommunications Division on a
time and material basis impacted by prevailing market price which may fluctuate
as custom installation is required for both residential and commercial
customers;
   (B)   Bandwidth charge.  At prevailing market price as determined by the
Telecommunications Division at the time of the sale;
   (C)   Labor rate.  As determined by the Telecommunications Division;
   (D)   Equipment replacement.  Any equipment damaged by the user will be
billed at replacement cost; and
   (E)   Other.
      (1)   Additional email accounts.  A monthly fee of $5 for additional
email accounts in blocks of five above the amount provided at no charge (five
residential and ten commercial).
      (2)   Block of static IP addresses.  A monthly charge of $20 for a block
of eight static IP addresses (five public).
      (3)   Internet service call.  Will consist of a trip fee of $30 and for
labor at $60 per hour with a one hour minimum for repairs to damaged
Telecommunications Division equipment, or when a technician is dispatched for
service and the problem is not caused by the Telecommunications Division’s
equipment for facilities. Also, the Telecommunications Division, at its
discretion may provide on-site service for customer-owned equipment if
requested by the customer at the aforementioned rate. Upgrades to or
replacement of undamaged but defective or malfunctioning Telecommunications
Division-provided equipment does not involve a labor charge.
      (3)   Other service.  If requested by the customer, other service that is
deemed feasible and appropriate by the Telecommunications Division will be
billed at prevailing market rates,
(Ord. 07-11, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 08-09, passed 8-25-2008)
§ 57.33  REFUSAL OR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The following rates and charges are hereby adopted as for the rates and
charges to be used by the Telecommunications Division when charging commercial
or residential customers for co-location space in the Telecommunication
Division’s server room:
   (A)   Space charge.  At prevailing market price as determined by the
Telecommunications Division at the time of sale;
   (B)   Bandwidth charge.  At prevailing market price as determined by the
Telecommunications Division at the time of sale; and
   (C)   Other.  If requested by the customer, other service associated with
co-location space that is deemed feasible and appropriate by the
Telecommunications Division will be billed at prevailing market rates.
(Ord. 08-09, passed 8-25-2008)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   OPERATION OF VEHICLES
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
73.   SNOWMOBILES
      
74.   BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER BLADES (IN-LINE SKATES) AND ROLLER SKATES
      
75.   GOLF CARTS
      
76.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
77.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Solicitation on public roads and streets
§ 70.01  TITLE.
   Title VII of the city code shall constitute and be designated “The City
Traffic Code.”
(Prior Code, § 16-1)
§ 70.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT.  The area bounded by North, East, South and West
Streets including the foregoing streets.
   LOCAL STREETS.  All streets other than preferential streets.
   ONE-WAY STREET.  A street on which traffic is permitted to move in only one
direction.
   PARK or PARKING.  The stopping, leaving or standing of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of loading or
unloading.
   PREFERENTIAL STREETS.  Those streets which have the right-of-way over
intersecting streets unless otherwise controlled by a traffic-control device.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE.  A yield sign, stop sign or an electrical traffic
signal whose purpose is to alert oncoming traffic to either yield, stop or
proceed as directed by the traffic signal.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL MAP.  A map of all streets in the city which includes the
location of all traffic-control devices in the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 16-2)  (Ord. 83-8, passed 6-13-1983)
§ 70.03  SOLICITATION ON PUBLIC ROADS AND STREETS.
   (A)   Solicitation by pedestrians is prohibited on State Road 39 and State
Road 32 within the corporate boundaries of the city.
   (B)   Solicitation by pedestrians on any public street or road within the
corporate boundaries of the city is prohibited.
(Ord. 10-14, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71:  OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Speed limits; generally
Traffic Flow
   
71.15   Traffic-control map
   
71.16   Traffic controls
   
71.17   Additions and removals of traffic devices
   
71.18   Local streets
Traffic/Parking on Lebanon Community School Corporation Property
   
71.25   Definitions
   
71.26   Traffic control
   
71.27   Enforcement
   
71.28   Proceeds
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01  SPEED LIMITS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Downtown business district; subdivisions; additions, residential
areas.  The speed limit for motor vehicles in the downtown business district
and subdivisions shall be 20 mph.
   (B)   Other sections of city.  The speed limit for motor vehicles in all
other sections of the city shall be 30 mph.
   (C)   Exceptions.  The above speed limits shall not apply to state and
federal highways within the city limits which shall be controlled by state
statute or State Department of Transportation regulations.
(Prior Code, § 16-16)  (Ord. passed 6-12-1939; Ord. 83-8, passed 6-13-1983;
Ord. 88-18, passed 12-12-1988)  Penalty, see §
71.99
TRAFFIC FLOW
§ 71.15  TRAFFIC-CONTROL MAP.
   A street map of the city has been prepared which indicates thereon the
location of all traffic-control devices within the city limits. This map,
titled “Lebanon Traffic-Control Map,” is hereby adopted and made a part of this
Traffic Code by reference. The original copy of this map shall be kept in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 16-19)  (Ord. 83-8, passed 6-13-1983)
§ 71.16  TRAFFIC CONTROLS.
   All vehicles approaching a traffic-control device shall only proceed as
directed by that traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 16-20)  (Ord. 83-8, passed 6-13-1983)
§ 71.17  ADDITIONS AND REMOVALS OF TRAFFIC DEVICES.
   Whenever, in the judgment of the Board of Public Works and Safety it becomes
necessary to add or remove traffic-control devices within the city, it shall by
proper motion, direct the desired action be taken. The traffic-control map
shall be corrected to reflect these changes.
(Prior Code, § 16-21)  (Ord. 83-8, passed 6-13-1983)
§ 71.18  LOCAL STREETS.
   All other streets not listed in
Chapter 76, Schedule II within the city shall be local streets.
(Prior Code, § 16-23)  (Ord. 83-8, passed 6-13-1983)
TRAFFIC/PARKING ON LEBANON COMMUNITY SCHOOL CORPORATION PROPERTY
§ 71.25  DEFINITIONS.
   This subchapter incorporates by reference the definitions contained in §
70.02.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-27-2015)
§ 71.26  TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   No motor vehicle, motorcycle, or other motorized device for conveyance of
persons and/or property shall be operated or parked on School Corporation
property, except in compliance with the following restrictions:
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per
hour;
   (B)   All vehicles parked on said property shall be parked only within areas
marked and designated for vehicular parking;
   (C)   Parking spaces or areas marked or posted as reserved for used by
handicapped persons may be used only by vehicles displaying a current and
appropriate handicapped vehicle sticker;
   (D)   Parking spaces or areas marked of posted as reserved for use by law
enforcement, public safety or emergency vehicles may be used only by such
vehicles authorized to use them;
   (E)   The operators of all vehicles shall observe and comply with proper
driving lanes and one- way traffic lanes as designated by traffic control signs
or markings in place on said property;
   (F)   The operators of all vehicles shall stop and yield the right-of-way in
compliance with  stop or yield signs or markings on said property; and
   (G)   All vehicles shall be operated and maintained in accordance with the
general rules of the road as established by Indiana law and with due care for
the safety of other persons or property in the vicinity.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-27-2015)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27  ENFORCEMENT.
   Officers of the School Corporation Security/Police Department and authorized
law enforcement officers of the city, Boone County Sheriff, or Indiana State
Police shall have the authority to enforce this subchapter by proceedings
initiated in the Boone Superior Court II, Lebanon, Indiana.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-27-2015)
§ 71.28  PROCEEDS.
   Fines collected for a violation of this subchapter shall be deposited into
the general fund of the School Corporation.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-27-2015)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of the provisions of the city code pertaining to §
71.01(A) shall amount to a city ordinance violation and, upon a finding of
violation of that section, the violator shall be fined in a sum not to exceed
$25.
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle violating the regulations contained in §
71.26 shall be subject to a civil fine in the sum of $25 in addition to any
court costs imposed or required by law.
(Prior Code, § 16-16)  (Ord. passed 6-12-1939; Ord. 83-8, passed 6-13-1983;
Ord. 88-18, passed 12-12-1988; Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-27-2015)
CHAPTER 72:  STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Definition
   
72.02   Parking in violation of law
   
72.03   Parking in business district
   
72.04   Parking on public square
   
72.05   Parking in alleys, on lawns, between sidewalks and curbs
   
72.06   Parking of trucks restricted
   
72.07   Parking of house trailers and motorized homes
   
72.08   Violation citation forms
   
72.09   Information to be recorded upon arrest
   
72.10   Handicapped parking
   
72.11   Authority of Board of Public Works and Safety to establish parking
restrictions in areas other than downtown traffic area
Downtown Traffic Area
   
72.25   Defined
   
72.26   Parking restrictions
   
72.27   Authority of Board of Public Works and Safety
   
72.28   Reserved parking passes
Shopping Centers
   
72.40   Fire lanes
   
72.41   Parking for persons with physical disability; exceptions; definition
   
72.42   Ownership prima facie evidence
   
72.43   Time limitations
   
72.44   Loitering; unauthorized assembly
   
72.45   Abandoned, junked, unattended motor vehicles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK or PARKING.  The stopping, leaving or standing of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading.
(Prior Code, § 16-30)  (Ord. passed 2-20-1956)
§ 72.02  PARKING IN VIOLATION OF LAW.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
   (B)   It  is unlawful  for any vehicle to be parked on any city street or
thoroughfare in a manner which obstructs the normal and reasonable smooth flow
of traffic upon the street or thoroughfare.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle upon any street,
throughway, thoroughfare, alley or other city right-of-way in a manner that it
impedes the flow of traffic, ingress and egress of emergency vehicles or the
use of city equipment for the up-keep and care of the street, throughway,
thoroughfare, alley or other city right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 16-31)  (Ord. passed 2-20-1956; Ord. 02-03, passed 3-11-2002) 
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle whatsoever to stop, except
as provided in division (B) of this section, at any place within the business
district other than for the purpose of loading or unloading goods, or making
deliveries providing that each stop by one motor vehicle shall not be for a
period of time longer than ten minutes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to park in any place other
than as designated by traffic markings in the business district.
(Prior Code, § 16-32)  (Ord. passed 6-12-1939)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  PARKING ON PUBLIC SQUARE.
   No truck, semitrailer, car with trailer, bus or school bus shall park on the
public square of the city between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. unless
approved by the Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 16-33)  (Ord. passed 6-12-1939)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05  PARKING IN ALLEYS, ON LAWNS, BETWEEN SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any
automobile, truck, trailer, tractor or any other vehicle, within any alley in
the city, except for purposes of loading or unloading.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any
automobile, truck, trailer, tractor or any other vehicle, at, on or within any
lawn, sidewalk or the space between the sidewalk and curb and gutter in or on
any street in the city; provided, however, where there is no clearly defined
curb and the paved portion of the street and sidewalk extends to the building
wall, there shall be a passageway of at least five feet left between the
vehicle and the building wall.
   (C)   Property is exempt from this section if the house or garage were built
before the adoption of the city revised zoning and subdivision control
ordinance amended as the unified development ordinance and the zoning standard
setbacks as set forth in §
4.3.
(Prior Code, § 16-34)  (Ord. passed 6-13-1955; Ord. passed 2-8-1960; Ord. 83-8,
passed 6-13-1983; Ord. 83-16, passed 7-25-1983; Ord. 83-21, passed 10-10-1983;
Ord. 86-2, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 86-9, passed 7-28-1986; Ord. 87-10, passed
10-12-1987)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06  PARKING OF TRUCKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      TRUCK.  A vehicle with an overall length of 20 feet or more, or over one
ton capacity, and includes semitrailer trucks and either the tractor pulling
the same, or the trailer itself.
   (B)   Restriction.
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a truck on any street, other
than for the expeditious loading or unloading of freight, for more than one
hour, except in cases of emergency when the truck is broken down and unable to
move, and except also in the event a moving van is loading or unloading the
furniture and household goods, or the furniture and equipment and goods, wares
and merchandise of a business in either of which events the operator of the
truck will have a reasonable time in which to move his or her truck.
      (2)   No boats, trailers, campers, RV or other like recreational vehicles
shall be allowed to be parked on city streets.
   (C)   Commercial vehicles in residential areas.  The storage or parking of
commercial vehicles in residential zoning districts or in areas zoned for
planned unit development (PUD) that are primarily residential in character and
use shall be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Trucks in excess of 22 feet in length or nine feet in height,
vehicular machinery, semi-tractor or trailers or similar vehicles are
prohibited from parking on local streets or in residential areas. This
provision shall not apply to commercial vehicles used for conveying the
necessary tools, materials or labor to a work site, provided the tools,
materials of labor are utilized at the site during the period the vehicle is
parked at the site, or to commercial vehicles in the process of temporarily
loading or unloading deliverable goods; and
      (2)   Vehicles owned by the city or utilized to provide emergency
services are exempt. Tow trucks are not exempt.
(Prior Code, § 16-35)  (Ord. 15-70, passed 12-28-1970; Ord. 10-08, passed 6-28-
2010)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07  PARKING OF HOUSE TRAILERS AND MOTORIZED HOMES.
   No person shall park a house trailer or motorized house cruiser on any of
the streets in the city with an overall length of 20 feet or more.
(Prior Code, § 16-36)  (Ord. 15-70, passed 12-28-1970)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08  VIOLATION CITATION FORMS.
   The Police Department shall be provided, in duplicate, with suitable
serially numbered forms for notifying violators to appear and answer to charges
of violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-37)  (Ord. passed 2-20-1956)
§ 72.09  INFORMATION TO BE RECORDED UPON ARREST.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any police officer, when
making an arrest hereunder, shall take the name, address and operator’s license
number of the alleged violator and the registered number of the motor vehicle
involved, or if the vehicle is unattended, he or she shall take its
registration number and any other information which may identify its user, and
shall issue to him or her, in writing, a notice to answer the charge against
him or her at a time and place at least five days after the arrest. The second
copy of the notice shall be forwarded to the City Court and a record thereof
retained by the Chief of Police. Upon failure of the person to appear within
the time stated in the notice, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and a
warrant, upon proper complaint, shall be issued for his or her arrest.
(Prior Code, § 16-38)  (Ord. passed 2-20-1956)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10  HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any vehicle in
a stall or a space designated for physically handicapped persons, if the stall
or space is posted or marked in a prescribed way, unless the vehicle displays
distinguishing license plates or place cards issued for handicapped persons,
including disabled veterans; provided, however, that in the event a handicapped
person is a passenger in a vehicle not so designated, then the driver of the
vehicle shall be permitted to park in that place.
   (B)   The designation of handicapped parking spaces shall be made by the
Board of Public Works on city streets and by state authorities on state
highways. These designations shall become part of this section by reference.
Any peace officer is hereby authorized to remove any vehicle from a stall or
space designated for physically handicapped persons if the vehicle is parked in
violation of the above provisions.
(Prior Code, § 16-39)  (Ord. 83-8, passed 6-13-1983)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11  AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY TO ESTABLISH PARKING
RESTRICTIONS IN AREAS OTHER THAN DOWNTOWN TRAFFIC AREA.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety, as the traffic control authority for
the city, shall be authorized to take the following actions regarding vehicle
parking in areas other than the downtown traffic area.
   (A)   Whenever the owner of any business located outside the downtown
traffic area, as defined by city ordinance, petitions the Board for restricted
parking, the Board of Public Works and Safety may designate restricted two-hour
parking adjacent to those businesses, where possible giving consideration to
past and present traffic patterns and the general welfare and safety of the
public in the area where restricted parking is requested. The area of
restricted parking established by the Board of Public Works and Safety shall be
bounded by appropriate signs designating restricted parking between these signs
and shall include no more than two vehicular parking spaces. The same maximum
duration of two hours shall apply to those spaces as is applicable to the
downtown traffic area. For purposes of this section only, the word BUSINESS
shall mean retail establishments, wholesale establishments, professional
offices, insurance offices and real estate offices. The petition presented to
the Board shall include notifications to, and acknowledgments by, surrounding
property owners who may be affected by the granting of the a request.
SURROUNDING shall be defined to mean residents within the block area on both
sides of the street, where the business fronts or has its principal place of
operation.
   (B)   Upon the restriction of parking as set forth herein, the Board of
Public Works and Safety shall give appropriate notice by signs and markings
setting forth the time restrictions established by this chapter; provided,
however, the city shall be reimbursed by the owner(s) of the business(es)
affected for the cost of implementing the request for restricted parking,
including, but not limited to, signage, the marking expense of streets and
curbs, and the costs of publication of the penal nature of the ordinance passed
for purposes of enforcement.
   (C)   Enforcement of restricted parking outside of the downtown business
area may be accomplished by complaint by any person filing in the City Court an
affidavit setting forth the nature of the offense which occurs in any spaces
allocated pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 16-40)  (Ord. 85-13, passed 11-11-1985)
DOWNTOWN TRAFFIC AREA
§ 72.25  DEFINED.
   The following area of the city is hereby defined to be the downtown traffic
area regulated by this subchapter: the Courthouse square and the extension of
the streets surrounding the Courthouse square to, but not including, any
portions of North Street, South Street, East Street or West Street.
(Prior Code, § 16-55.1)  (Ord. 81-10, passed 7-27-1981; Ord. 06-07, passed 4-
10-2006)
§ 72.26  PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Overtime parking prohibited.  It shall be unlawful and a violation of
this subchapter for any person to allow, permit or suffer any motor vehicle
owned or operated by the person to be parked in excess of two hours in the
downtown traffic area within any designated parking space.
   (B)   Hours of enforcement.  The provisions of this subchapter shall be
enforced on Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., excluding
holidays and election days.
   (C)   Exemptions.  The following designated county offices shall be exempt
from the provisions of this section as follows:
Office Parking Permit per Office
Office               Parking Permit per Office
Circuit Court        2
County Assessor      2
County Auditor       2
County Clerk         2
County Commissioners 3
County IT Department 1
County Plan Director 1
County Prosecutor    2
County Recorder      2
County Surveyor      2
County Treasurer     2
Courthouse custodian 1
Courthouse security  2
Superior Court I     2
Superior Court II    2
 
   (D)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall issue permits in January of each
year. Only those county offices listed above will receive permits. Permits are
to be placed in the lower front windshield, driver’s side, of the vehicle. It
is a violation of this section to duplicate, photocopy or alter permits in any
manner. Vehicles are required to display permits as stated in this section or
they will be subject to the penalties herein.
      (2)   All vehicles with permits are required to park on the inside
parking spaces of the Courthouse Square. Any vehicle with a permit parking
outside of that area will be subject to the penalties listed in §
72.99.
      (3)   Any individual found removing the parking attendant marking or
moving vehicles in order to avoid enforcement of this section shall be
considered in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 16-55.2)  (Ord. 81-10, passed 7-27-1981; Ord. 06-07, passed 4-
10-2006)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.27  AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety, as the traffic control authority of
the city, is hereby authorized to take the following actions:
   (A)   Assign an officer to patrol the downtown traffic area and record
notice of the violation of this subchapter. A notice of violation shall be
attached to the vehicle in violation;
   (B)   Remove all parking meters within the downtown traffic area; and
   (C)   Give notice of the adopted parking regulations for the downtown
parking area by appropriate signs and markings setting forth the parking
restrictions set by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-55.3)  (Ord. 81-10, passed 7-27-1981)
§ 72.28  RESERVED PARKING PASSES.
   (A)   County officials.  Each office at the courthouse is allowed two
parking passes.
   (B)   Jury members.
      (1)   On the days jury trials are in progress, excluding the days of jury
selection, there shall be sufficient passes issued to permit members of sitting
juries to park in the downtown area during the actual hours the trial is in
progress. The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized to assign
additional passes as it finds necessary.
      (2)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized to issue
the passes and set regulations for their use. The passes are to be obtained at
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Display of placards.  The elected and appointed county officials and
jury members utilizing the placards/permits authorized for parking in the
downtown area shall display the same in the rear window of the motor vehicle on
the driver’s side of the vehicle to permit uniform enforcement of the parking
regulations imposed under this section.
(Prior Code, § 16-55.4)  (Ord. 81-10, passed 7-27-1981; Ord. 83-12, passed 5-
23-1983; Ord. 84-24, passed 11-13-1984)
SHOPPING CENTERS
§ 72.40  FIRE LANES.
   (A)   Parallel and/or vertical parking shall be prohibited along or adjacent
to the curb (commonly known as “fire lane”) as marked.
   (B)   A person may not stop, stand or park a vehicle in a fire lane.
   (C)   A fire lane must be marked with the words “No Parking Fire Lane” in
white letters and a stripe of at least four inches in width, in conformance
with the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. The words and
stripe must be placed 12 feet from the sidewalk, curb or building. The words
“No Parking Fire Lane” must be positioned between the stripe and the sidewalk,
curb or building.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit a county, city or town from adopting
and enforcing an ordinance that regulates stopping, standing and parking motor
vehicles in a fire lane.
   (E)   An ordinance adopted under division (D) above may not conflict with
this section.
   (F)   A law enforcement agency authorized to enforce:
      (1)   Division (B) above; or
      (2)   An ordinance adopted under division (D) above may appoint
volunteers to issue complaints and summonses for violations of division (B)
above or an ordinance adopted under division (D) above.
   (G)   To issue complaints and summonses, a volunteer appointed under
division (F) above must:
      (1)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (2)   Complete a course of instruction concerning the enforcement of this
chapter that is conducted by the appointing law enforcement agency;
      (3)   After successfully completing the course of instruction, obtain a
certificate from the executive authority of the appointing law enforcement
agency; and
      (4)   Satisfy any other qualifications established by the law enforcement
agency.
   (H)   The executive authority of a law enforcement agency that appoints
volunteers under division (F) above shall file a copy of each certificate
issued under division (G)(3) above with the prosecuting attorney having
jurisdiction over the area served by the law enforcement agency.
   (I)   A complaint and summons issued by a volunteer appointed under division
(F) above has the same force and effect as a complaint and summons issued by a
law enforcement officer for the same violation.
   (J)   A volunteer appointed under division (F) above does not have powers of
a law enforcement officer, except those powers granted under this section.
   (K)   The executive authority of a law enforcement authority that appoints a
volunteer under division (F) above may, at any time, revoke the certificate
issued to the volunteer under division (G)(3) above. If a certificate is
revoked under this division:
      (1)   The executive authority shall notify the prosecuting attorney with
whom the certificate was filed under division (H) above of the revocation; and
      (2)   The volunteer’s powers under this section terminate immediately
upon the revocation.
   (L)   A volunteer appointed under division (F) above may not issue a
complaint and summons upon private property unless the law enforcement agency
that appointed the volunteer first receives permission from the property owner
or the property manager.
   (M)   A property owner is not liable for property damage or personal injury
resulting from the actions of a volunteer appointed under division (F) above
issuing a complaint and summons.
(I.C. 9-21-16-5.5)  (Prior Code, § 16-55.16)
§ 72.41  PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY; EXCEPTIONS; DEFINITION.
   (A)   Handicapped parking places. Parking shall be prohibited in the
shopping center having a contractual agreement with the city, in the parking
places designated and striped for person with physical disabilities, unless the
individual falls under the definition of a person with a physical disability,
as contained in division (B) below.
   (B)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY.  Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-14-5, 9-18-18, 9-18-22 or the laws of
another state.
   (C)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (D)   Violation.  If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (E)   Towing.  In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
(Prior Code, § 16-55.17)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.42  OWNERSHIP PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   The fact that a motor vehicle is owned by a person and the fact that a motor
vehicle is in a parking place shall be prima facie evidence that a motor
vehicle was parked in the parking place by the owner as pertains to this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-55.18)  (Ord. 84-13, passed 6-25-1984)
§ 72.43  TIME LIMITATIONS.
   Automobiles shall be deemed improperly parked when they are on the parking
lot during any hours that it is closed for public usage, unless the cars shall
be properly identified as belonging to an employee of one of the stores in the
shopping center. Further, the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles in the
shopping center shall be limited to the amount of time required to patronize
the stores of the merchants and/or lessees of the contracting shopping center
during the normal business hours of the merchants.
(Prior Code, § 16-55.19)  (Ord. 84-13, passed 6-25-1984; Ord. 86-6, passed 5-
12-1986)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.44  LOITERING; UNAUTHORIZED ASSEMBLY.
   Loitering or unauthorized assembly of pedestrians in the parking area,
without the intent of patronization of merchants located in the shopping plaza,
during or after normal business hours, shall also be subject to regulation and
enforcement under the provisions of this chapter. Loitering and unauthorized
assembly of pedestrians shall be deemed a further violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-55.20)  (Ord. 84-13, passed 6-25-1984)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.45  ABANDONED, JUNKED, UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Abandoned, junked or unattended motor vehicles located on the shopping
center premises shall be treated in accordance with the city code, Chapter 98,
Volume One, dealing with the same.
(Prior Code, § 16-55.21)  (Ord. 84-13, passed 6-25-1984)
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the following penalties within a calendar year:
      (1)   For the first violation, pay a penal sum of $10. This sum may be
paid to the Traffic Violations Clerk of the city within a period of 24 hours of
receiving notice thereof. The penalty for payment between 24 hours and 48 hours
shall be $15. In the event payment is not made within 48 hours, the violator
shall be subject to answer charges of violation in the City Court and, if
proven guilty, be subject to a fine of not more than $25, plus court costs.
      (2)   For the second violation, pay a penal sum of $15. This sum may be
paid to the Traffic Violations Clerk of the city within a period of 24 hours of
receiving notice thereof. The penalty for payment between 24 hours and 48 hours
shall be $20. In the event payment is not made within 48 hours, the violator
shall be subject to answer charges of violation in the City Court and, if
proven guilty, be subject to a fine of not more than $25, plus court costs.
      (3)   For the third violation, pay a penal sum of $25. This sum may be
paid to the Traffic Violations Clerk of the city within a period of 24 hours of
receiving notice thereof. The penalty for payment between 24 hours and 48 hours
shall be $50. In the event payment is not made within 48 hours, the violator
shall be subject to answer charges of violation in the City Court and, if
proven guilty, be subject to a fine not to exceed $100, plus court costs.
      (4)   In the event the violations set out in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) and
(A)(3) above, are consecutive violations in the same day, the city may, in
addition to imposing the above penalties, order the violator’s vehicle
impounded and towed away. The violator will be charged with the costs of the
service.
      (5)   In the event that a violator has complied with division (A)(1) of
this penalty section and has no further violations within a six-month period,
then the violation shall be purged from the record. In the event that the
violator complies with division (A)(1) above and within the six-month period
receives a second or third ticket which would cause him or her to be charged
under divisions (A)(2) or (A)(3) above, and later, after the second violation
has no further violations within a six-month period, then the charge against
the violator shall be purged from the record.
(Prior Code, § 16-55.5)
   (B)   A violation of either or any of the above provisions of division (A)
above shall amount to a city ordinance violation and, upon conviction of such,
the violator shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $25. Each day of the
violation shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 16-55.21)
   (C)   Any violation of §
72.02 shall constitute a violation punishable by a fine of not more than $25.
For purposes of enforcing provisions of §
72.02, summons  and court citations may be  issued by all authorized police
officers. Additionally, upon request of the Street Commissioner, vehicles  in
violation of §
72.02 may be towed and/or impounded as in the case of abandoned vehicles.
   (D)   The penalty for violation of §
72.06 shall be a fine of $50 for the first violation in a calendar year and
$100 for each subsequent violation in the same calendar year. If the violation
is not paid to the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days of its issuance, or is denied
by the individual receiving the citation, the citation will be referred to the
City Court for prosecution, in which case the individual may also be assessed
court costs.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §
72.26 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   For each violation, pay a penal sum of $15. This sum shall be paid
to the Clerk- Treasurer’s office within ten calendar days of the date of the
violation. In the event the payment is not made within ten calendar days, the
penal sum increases to $25 and the Clerk-Treasurer’s office will forward a
letter to the violator, giving them ten calendar days from the date of the
letter to pay the sum. In the event payment is not made, the violator shall
have the option of paying the sum of $50 within 30 days of the violation, or
the case will be referred to the City Attorney for prosecution and if a
violation is found, be subject to a fine of not less than $50 plus court costs.
      (2)   Any vehicle found in violation of §
72.26 for two or more successive days shall be impounded and towed at the
violator’s expense.
(Ord. 81-10, passed 7-27-1981; Ord. 82-9, passed 5-10-1982; Ord. 84-13, passed
6-25-1984; Ord. 02-03, passed 3-11-2002; Ord. 06-07, passed 4-10-2006; Ord. 10-
08, passed 6-28-2010; Ord. 2014-02, passed 2-24-2014)
CHAPTER 73:  SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
73.01   Required depth of snowfall for operation
   
73.02   Supervision required for operators under 16 years old
   
73.03   Snowmobile registration requirements
   
73.04   Snowmobile insurance requirements
   
73.05   Authorized hours of snowmobile operation
   
73.06   Snowmobile parking
   
73.07   Snowmobile traffic and safety requirements
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01  REQUIRED DEPTH OF SNOWFALL FOR OPERATION.
   No snowmobile shall be operated within the corporate limits of the city
unless the Mayor and Police Chief declare a snow emergency and permit the
access of snowmobiles in the city.
(Prior Code, § 16-56)  (Ord. 80-23, passed 11-24-1980)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02  SUPERVISION REQUIRED FOR OPERATORS UNDER 16 YEARS OLD.
   (A)   No person under 16 years old shall operate a snowmobile without the
immediate supervision of a person 18 years of age or older, except on land
owned by the person’s parents or legal guardian.
   (B)   Immediate supervision referenced in division (A) above is present only
when both persons are riding in the same snowmobile at the same time.
(Prior Code, § 16-58)  (Ord. 80-23, passed 11-24-1980)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03  SNOWMOBILE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All snowmobiles shall be registered with the State Department of Natural
Resources prior to operating within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 16-59)  (Ord. 80-23, passed 11-24-1980)
§ 73.04  SNOWMOBILE INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   All snowmobile owners operating snowmobiles within the corporate limits of
the city shall maintain public liability and property damage insurance on the
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 16-60)  (Ord. 80-23, passed 11-24-1980)
§ 73.05  AUTHORIZED HOURS OF SNOWMOBILE OPERATION.
   No snowmobile shall be operated within the corporate limits of the city
between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except in times of duly
designated emergencies as declared by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 16-61)  (Ord. 80-23, passed 11-24-1980)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06  SNOWMOBILE PARKING.
   Snowmobiles may be parked only on designated routes and in city metered lots
and parking spaces.
(Prior Code, § 16-62)  (Ord. 80-23, passed 11-24-1980)
§ 73.07  SNOWMOBILE TRAFFIC AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All snowmobiles operated within the corporate limits of the city shall
be required to operate with their headlights on at all times.
   (B)   Snowmobile operators shall obey all traffic signs, signals and traffic
laws.
   (C)   Safety flags shall be flown from all snowmobiles operated within the
limits of the city.
   (D)   Snowmobile operators and owners shall be required to comply with all
State Department of Natural Resources snowmobile regulations.
   (E)   It is recommended that snowmobile operators wear helmets while
operating their vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 16-63)  (Ord. 80-23, passed 11-24-1980)
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   Any person found in violation of the terms of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in the general penalty provisions of the city code, §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 16-65)  (Ord. 80-23, passed 11-24-1980)
CHAPTER 74:  BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER BLADES (IN-LINE SKATES) AND ROLLER
SKATES
Section
Bicycles
   
74.01   Riding, parking on sidewalks restricted
   
74.02   Removal of bicycles illegally parked on sidewalks; redemption
   
74.03   Operators to comply with traffic laws; further safety regulations
Skateboards, Roller Blades (In-line Skates) and Roller Skates
   
74.15   Compliance with subchapter required
   
74.16   Skateboarding, roller blading (in-line skating) and roller skating
prohibited on all city streets; exceptions
   
74.17   Skateboarding, roller blading (in-line skating) and roller skating on
sidewalks
   
74.18   Skateboard regulations in designated city owned/Park Board owned and
operated skateboard facilities
 
   
74.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 74.01  RIDING, PARKING ON SIDEWALKS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle on the sidewalk within
one block of the public downtown square or to park or lay a bicycle on the
sidewalk within that area.
(Prior Code, § 6-7)  (Ord. passed 8-8-1960)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.02  REMOVAL OF BICYCLES ILLEGALLY PARKED ON SIDEWALKS; REDEMPTION.
   The Police Department is hereby authorized and directed to remove or cause
to be removed any bicycle found parked or laying on a sidewalk within one block
of the public downtown square to the police station where the owner thereof may
reclaim his or her bicycle upon proof of ownership and payment of a levy of $5,
which levy shall be in addition to the fine hereinafter stated.
(Prior Code, § 6-8)  (Ord. passed 8-8-1960)
§ 74.03  OPERATORS TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC LAWS; FURTHER SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   In the interest of safety, all persons riding a bicycle on the streets,
alleys and public highways within the city shall at all times observe the
traffic laws of the city the same as operators of automobiles, and shall:
   (A)   Obey all traffic signs and signals;
   (B)   Never carry another person on the crossbar, handlebars or rear
carrier;
   (C)   Always ride on the right-hand side of the street, close to the curb or
parked line of cars;
   (D)   Ride single file and keep a safe distance behind the vehicle or
bicycle ahead;
   (E)   Ride in a straight line and not weave or make sharp turns in traffic
and never dart in and out of traffic;
   (F)   Not attempt to pass the moving vehicle ahead at an intersection, but
shall wait until he or she has passed the intersection;
   (G)   Always ride at a safe speed;
   (H)   When riding at night, have a white light on the front and a red light
or approved reflector on the rear of the bicycle;
   (I)   Keep his or her bicycle in good condition, with a bell or horn, good
brakes and seat and handlebars properly adjusted;
   (J)   Never “hitch” to a moving vehicle;
   (K)   Park his or her bicycle in a proper place, standing upright;
   (L)   Keep out of car tracks and ruts;
   (M)   Never stunt or race in traffic;
   (N)   Keep his or her bicycle under control; and
   (O)   Always ride with caution and courtesy.
(Prior Code, § 6-9)  (Ord. passed 8-8-1960)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER BLADES (IN-LINE SKATES) AND ROLLER SKATES
§ 74.15  COMPLIANCE WITH SUBCHAPTER REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall roller skate, roller blade (in-line skate) or ride a
skateboard in any public place within the city except where specifically
authorized by this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall roller skate, roller blade (in-line skate) or ride a
skateboard in any public place within the city without complying with the rules
and regulations as set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-15)  (Ord. 90-6, passed 5-29-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.16  SKATEBOARDING, ROLLER BLADING (IN-LINE SKATING) AND ROLLER SKATING
PROHIBITED ON ALL CITY STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall roller skate, roller blade (in-line skate) or ride a
skateboard on any street except when crossing the street.
   (B)   The laws governing pedestrians crossing streets shall apply to any
person crossing a street on roller skates, roller blades (in-line skates) or
skateboards.
   (C)   Any person crossing a street on roller skates or roller blades (in-
line skates) or any person crossing a street on a skateboard shall come to a
complete stop and give the right-of-way to all vehicular traffic before
crossing the street.
   (D)   Any person crossing a street on roller skates or roller blades (in-
line skates) or any person crossing a street on a skateboard shall be cognizant
of his or her own safety, as well as the due care and safety of pedestrians in
the area.
   (E)   Any person crossing street on roller skates or roller blades (in-line
skates) or crossing a street on a skateboard shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians and vehicular traffic at all crosswalks.
   (F)   No person crossing a street on roller skates or roller blades (in-line
skates) or crossing a street on a skateboard shall travel too fast for the
existing conditions.
   (G)   All persons participating in the recreational activity of
rollerskating, roller blading (in-line skating) or skateboarding shall
otherwise obey all traffic signs and signals posted for vehicular traffic and
pedestrians in the city.
   (H)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating,
roller blading (in-line skating) or skateboarding shall ride on the right hand
side of the street close to the curb or parked line of cars.
   (I)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of rollerskating,
roller blading (in-line skating) or skateboarding shall keep a safe distance
behind any vehicle, bicycle, roller skater, roller blader (in-line skater) or
skateboarder ahead.
   (J)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating,
roller blading (in-line skating) or skateboarding shall traverse in a straight
line and not weave or make sharp turns in traffic and shall never dart in and
out of traffic.
   (K)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating,
roller blading (in-line skating) or skateboarding shall not attempt to pass any
moving vehicle ahead at an intersection, but shall wait until the same has
passed the intersection.
   (L)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating,
roller blading (in-line skating) or skateboarding when riding at night shall
have proper reflective clothing on their persons so as to be visible to
motorists and/or pedestrians in the vicinity.
   (M)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating,
roller blading (in-line skating) or skateboarding shall never “hitch” or attach
them selves in any manner to a moving vehicle.
   (N)   All persons engaging in the recreational activity of roller skating,
roller blading (in-line skating) or skateboarding shall always remove their
skates and skateboard to a proper place out of the traveled portion of any
roadway, sidewalk or alleyway and shall at all times pursue their recreational
avocation in control so as not to provide a danger to themselves or other
pedestrians or vehicular traffic and further always ride with caution and
courtesy to others.
(Prior Code, § 6-16)  (Ord. 90-6, passed 5-29-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.17  SKATEBOARDING, ROLLER BLADING (IN-LINE SKATING) AND ROLLER SKATING ON
SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall roller skate, roller blade (in-line skate) or ride a
skateboard on any city sidewalk in commercial zoning districts, although riding
skateboards on sidewalks shall be permitted in residential districts in the
following areas of the city:
      (1)   Central Business Downtown (CB);
      (2)   Neighborhood Business (NB);
      (3)   Planned Business Commercial (PBC);
      (4)   Planned Business Office (PBO);
      (5)   Planned Business Industrial (PBI);
      (6)   Industrial District (ID); and
      (7)   Institutional (IN).
   (B)   Persons may roller skate, roller blade (in-line skate) or ride a
skateboard on sidewalks in the following areas of the city:
      (1)   Open Space (OS);
      (2)   Single-Family (SF);
      (3)   Single Family (SF-1, 2, 3);
      (4)   Multi Family (MF);
      (5)   Traditional Housing (TR); and
      (6)   Manufactured Home (MH).
   (C)   Persons who roller skate, roller blade (in-line skate) or ride a
skateboard on sidewalks where permitted must at all times exercise due care for
the safety of other persons using the sidewalks.
   (D)   Persons who roller skate, roller blade (in-line skate) or ride a
skateboard on sidewalk where permitted must at all times yield the right of way
to pedestrians and give pedestrians audible warnings before overtaking and
passing them.
(Prior Code, § 6-17)  (Ord. 90-6, passed 5-29-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.18  SKATEBOARD REGULATIONS IN DESIGNATED CITY OWNED/PARK BOARD OWNED AND
OPERATED SKATEBOARD FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Board of Park Commissioners shall establish all rules and
regulations addressing the use of skateboards, roller skates and roller blades
(in-line skates) in designated city-owned facilities operated by the Board of
Park Commissioners when the same are established.
   (B)   Any person who wishes to skateboard in any designated city or Park
Board skateboard facility specifically designated for the use of skateboards,
roller skates and/or roller blades (in-line skates) shall be required to adhere
to all safety requirements and posted rules and regulations.
   (C)   These regulations shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
wearing of protective helmets, kneepads and elbow pads; rules of conduct for
the facility, any user fees imposed; proper hours of operation and penalties.
All regulations shall be conspicuously posted at each city/park operated
skateboard, roller skate or roller blade (in-line skate) facility should the
same be established by the city or its Board of Parks and Recreation.
   (D)   Anyone violating the provisions of this section or §
74.17 shall be asked to abide by the governing rules and regulations. If the
individual refuses to do so, he or she shall be issued a warning notice from
the city, shall be asked to leave and shall not return to that specific
designated city-owned skateboard facility for the remainder of that day or
shall otherwise remove his or her activity from a city street as provided for
hereinabove. Anyone refusing to leave or who returns the same day after having
been asked to leave shall be issued a citation and shall have his or her
skateboard, skates and/or roller blades (in-line skates) seized and
subsequently impounded by the City Police Department.
   (E)   Any confiscated skateboard, roller skates and/or roller blades (in-
line skates), if belonging to a person under the age of 18 years, shall be
given up to the parent or guardian of the minor upon request and without charge
if a first-time violator, after a full explanation of the reason(s) for
impounding the skateboard, roller skates and/or roller blades (in-line skates)
and a copy of the rules of conduct for the usage of skateboards in the city
streets in general or for use at a city skateboard facility are given to the
parent or guardian. Subsequent violations shall be addressed pursuant to the
provisions of §
74.99.
   (F)   Any confiscated skateboard, roller skates and/or roller blades (in-
line skates), if belonging to a person 18 years of age or older shall be given
to that person upon request and without charge if a first-time violator, after
a full explanation of the reason(s) for impounding the skateboard and a copy of
the rules of conduct for city skateboard facilities and for operation on the
city streets are given to that individual. Subsequent violations shall be
addressed pursuant to the provisions of §
74.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-18)  (Ord. 90-6, passed 5-29-1990)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.  Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Skateboards, roller skates and roller blades (in-line skates).
      (1)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of §§
74.15 through
74.18 may be subject to the following.
         (l)   Warning notice.  Issuance of a warning notice to a first-time
violator stating that he or she is in violation and that failure to comply may
result in impoundment of his or her roller skates, roller blades (in-line
skates) or skateboard and a citation being issued for the violation.
         (2)   Citations.  For a second violation of any of the provisions of
§§
74.15 through
74.18 within the same calendar year, a citation shall be issued to the violator
imposing a $25 fine, as well as the violator’s skateboard, roller skates or
roller blades (in-line skates) being impounded for the ordinance violation.
      (2)   The warning notice issued under this division shall contain the
date, time, name, age and address of the violator, the name of the violator’s
parent(s) or guardian if the violator is a minor, the code section violated,
the nature of the violation, the location of the violation, the name of the
officer issuing the warning notice and a telephone number of the office to
contact for information regarding the violation and the contents of §§
74.15 through
74.18.
      (3)   The citation issued under this division shall contain the date, the
time, name, age and address of the violator, the name of the violator’s parent
(s) or guardian if the violator is a minor, the code section violated, the
nature of the violation, the location of the violation, the name of the officer
issuing the citation and instructions as to the disposition of the citation.
      (4)   The City Police Department shall maintain records of all roller
skates, roller blades (in-line skates) and skateboards impounded by date, time,
name and address of the violator, the code section violated and a brief
description of the item impounded so as to facilitate identification process
for return of those items confiscated. All items impounded shall be tagged for
proper identification purposes to return them to the rightful owner.
      (5)   The impounded skateboard, roller skates or roller blades (in-line
skates), if belonging to a person under age 18 shall be given to the parent or
guardian of the minor upon request after a full explanation of the reason for
impounding the skateboard, roller skates or roller blades (in-line skates) is
given to the parent or guardian and after payment is received for all
outstanding citations issued. The city shall give a copy of all rules and
regulations governing the use of roller skates, roller blades (in-line skates)
or skateboards on city property or within city streets, sidewalks and
alleyways, at the time of returning the property to the parent or guardian.
      (6)   The impounded skateboard, roller skates or roller blades (in-line
skates) belonging to the violator who is 18 years of age or older, shall be
give to him or her upon request and receipt of payment for all outstanding
citations issued. The city shall give a copy of all rules and regulations
governing the use of roller skates, roller blades (in-line skates) or
skateboards on city property, streets, alleyways and sidewalks, at the time of
returning the property to the violator.
      (7)   Each subsequent day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense for which a citation may be issued.
      (8)   Anyone who recklessly, knowingly or intentionally obstructs
vehicular or pedestrian traffic while on roller skates, roller blades (in-line
skates) or on a skateboard commits disorderly conduct and shall be subject to
the provisions of applicable state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-19)  (Ord. 90-6, passed 5-29-1990)
CHAPTER 75:  GOLF CARTS
Section
   
75.01   Definition
   
75.02   Must be licensed driver
   
75.03   Restricted operation
   
75.04   Registration
   
75.05   Obedience to rules of the road
   
75.06   Restrictions on areas of operation
   
75.07   Safety equipment
   
75.08   Exemption
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition(s) shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle with four wheels substantially similar to vehicle
originally designed for operation on a golf course and powered by a battery or
internal combustion engine.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 7-23-2018)
§ 75.02  MUST BE LICENSED DRIVER.
   Only licensed drivers shall be allowed to operate golf carts in the city.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 10-05, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 2018-09,
passed 7-23-2018)  Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03  RESTRICTED OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall be operated only during daylight hours. Beginning April 1
through October 31, golf carts shall only be operated between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m. local time. From November 1 through March 31, golf carts
shall only be operated between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. local time.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 10-05, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 2018-09,
passed 7-23-2018)  Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04  REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Golf carts shall be registered with the city annually. Golf cart
owners are required to purchase an operating permit each year and the permits
are current through December 31 of the year purchased. Permit fees are $30 per
year. Permits can be purchased beginning January 2 and will expire on December
31. Golf cart owners are required to provide proof of insurance and a current
state driver's  license at the time of registration.
   (B)   Registration fees shall be paid through the Clerk-Treasurer's office.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 10-05, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 2018-09,
passed 7-23-2018)  Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.05  OBEDIENCE TO RULES OF THE ROAD.
   All golf carts shall obey all of the rules of the road, state laws and local
ordinances. All golf carts shall display a slow-moving vehicle sign attached to
the rear of the cart, as well as a registration sticker from the city, valid
for the current year. Proof of insurance shall be kept on the person or in the
golf cart vehicle at all times.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 10-05, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 2018-09,
passed 7-23-2018)  Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.06  RESTRICTIONS ON AREAS OF OPERATION.
   There shall be no golf cart traffic permitted upon any state highways
located within the city, specifically State Road 32 and State Road 39. Golf
cart traffic shall be prohibited on Indianapolis Avenue and Lafayette Avenue in
the city. In addition, no golf carts shall be allowed to travel on city
sidewalks, multi-use paths or trails.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 10-05, passed 4-12-2010); Ord. 2018-09,
passed 7-23-2018  Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.07  SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   Golf carts shall be equipped with rear view mirrors and factory seating for
all occupants with a maximum occupancy of six people. No one under two years of
age is allowed to ride on a golf cart and no one less than ten years of age
shall be allowed on the back seat of the cart. All passengers must be seated
while the golf cart is in use.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 10-05, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 2018-09,
passed 7-23-2018)  Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.08  EXEMPTION.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety for the city may exempt from the
provisions of this chapter, the use of golf carts in favor of public safety
personnel and/or the use of golf carts during special events. All special event
participants should be identified as such and each individual must provide
proof of insurance and a valid driver's license before being allowed to operate
a golf cart during any special event.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 10-05, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 2018-09,
passed 7-23-2018)
§ 75.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of the provisions of the city code pertaining to this traffic
regulation occurring after the adoption of this chapter shall amount to an
ordinance violation and upon a finding of the violation, the violator shall be
fined a sum of $50 for the first violation and $100 for subsequent violations.
Each time of the offense shall constitute a new and separate offense. If two
violations occur in a calendar year, it will result in a suspension of the golf
cart permit.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 10-05, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 2018-09,
passed 7-23-2018)
CHAPTER 76:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Preferential streets
   
III.   One-way streets
   
IV.   Snowmobiles; approved travel route
   
V.   Stop intersections
   
VI.   Heavy loads
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   City parks.
      (1)   The speed limits for motor vehicles within the city parks shall be:
 
Park                  Speed Limit
Abner Longley Park    15 mph
Lebanon Memorial Park 15 mph
 
      (2)   A violation of the provisions of the city code shall amount to a
city ordinance violation and, upon a finding of violation of that section, the
violator shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $25.
(Prior Code, § 16-16)  (Ord. passed 6-12-1939; Ord. 83-8, passed 6-13-1983;
Ord. 88-18, passed 12-12-1988)
   (B)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for motor vehicles within the city shall be:
Street Restrictions Speed Limit Ord. Passage Date
Street               Restrictions                Speed Limit Ord.  Passage Date
Anderson Lane        From Elk Swamp Road to      30 mph      97-4  - -
                     State Road 39 North
                     From North Lebanon Street
Camp Street          east to the intersection of 20 mph      96-4  3-11-1996
                     Camp Street and Ulen Drive
                     From State Road 32 south
Enterprise Boulevard through and to the          30 mph      95-11 10-9-1995
                     intersection of Mt. Zion
                     Road
Green Street         From South East Street east 20 mph      00-10 7-24-2000
                     to Hamilton Street
Hendricks Drive                                  20 mph      88-17 10-10-1988
                     From the intersection of
Ulen Drive           Camp Street to the          20 mph      96-4  3-11-1996
                     intersection of North Outer
                     Drive
West Powell          Between Jameson Street and  20 mph      86-18 10-13-1986
                     Lafayette Avenue
 
      (2)   A violation of the provisions of the city code shall amount to a
traffic violation and a fine shall be imposed as set by the City Court for like
offenses. Each time of the offense shall constitute a new and separate offense.
SCHEDULE II.  PREFERENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets within the city are hereby designated as
preferential streets:
Street
Street
Barrone Street
Camp Street
Chicago Street from Lebanon Street to Lafayette Avenue
East Street
Elizaville Road
Essex Street
Fordice Street
Garfield Street
Grant Street
Indianapolis Avenue
Lafayette Avenue
Lebanon Street
Main Street
Meridian Street
Noble Street
Northfield Drive
Park Street
Patterson Street
Ransdell Road
Royal Street
Sam Ralston Road
South Street
Syracuse Drive
Ulen Drive
Washington Street
West Street from Elm Street to Esplanade Street
 
   (B)   All traffic on these streets shall have the right-of-way over all
intersecting streets unless otherwise controlled by a traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 16-22)  (Ord. 83-8, passed 6-13-1983)
SCHEDULE III.  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Traffic on the following shall only move in the direction indicated.
 
Street           Restriction                                 Ord.  Passage Date
Fordice Street   Westbound from North Meridian Street to     10-17 8-23-2010
                 North Lebanon Street (SR 39)
Garfield Street* Southbound from Harney Drive to Camp Street
                 as posted when school is in session
Howard Street    Easterly From North East Street to Park     00-19 1-22-2001
                 Street
                 Eastbound from North West Street to
Williams Street* Meridian Street and from Park Street to Ann
                 Street as posted when school is in session
*   The times of one-way traffic shall be set annually by the Board of Public
Works and Safety before school opens in the fall of each year
 
   (B)   A violation of the provisions of the city code shall amount to a
traffic violation and a fine shall be imposed as set by the City Court for like
offenses. Each time of the offense shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 16-24)  (Ord. 83-8, passed 6-13-1983; Ord. 83-21, passed 10-10-
1983)
SCHEDULE IV.  SNOWMOBILES; APPROVED TRAVEL ROUTE.
   (A)   Snowmobiles shall be allowed to operate within the corporate limits of
the city only upon the public streets set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   Snowmobiles shall be operated upon the following streets of the city:
Street
Street
Chicago from Lafayette Avenue east to Clark Street
Clark Street from Washington to Chicago
Elizaville Road to John Bart Road
Elm Swamp Road from Elizaville Road north to city limits
Fordice Street from Meridian to John Bart Road
Glendale north to Fordice Street
Grant Boulevard north from Elizaville Road
Grant Street from Ulen Drive south to Indianapolis Avenue
Indianapolis Avenue from East Main Street southeast to city limits
Lafayette Avenue north to interstate
Meridian from Ulen to Fordice Street
Noble Street from Patterson Street east to State Road 32
North East Street from Ulen Drive to Fordice Street
North Lebanon Street from the north city limits to the entrance of K-Mart
Shopping Center
North Outer Drive southeast from Ulen Drive to end
Outer Drive from Park Drive to Fordice Street
Park Drive from North Outer Drive to Outer Drive
Park Street from Fordice to Main Street
Patterson Street from Chicago Street south to Noble Street
Ulen Drive from Essex to Elizaville Road
Washington Street from Park Street east to John Bart Road
West Camp Street from Lafayette Avenue to Garfield Street to Essex to Ulen
Drive
Witt Road from Lafayette Avenue
Any part of County Road 250 North in city limits
 
   (C)   The operation of snowmobiles in Memorial Park, Longley Park or on any
other street within the corporate limits of the city is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 16-57)  (Ord. 80-23, passed 11-24-1980)
SCHEDULE V.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Street Stop Ord. Passage Date
Street      Stop                                                                         Ord.  Passage
                                                                                               Date
Alleyway    Traversing north and south and crossing East Chicago Street’s intersection 86-18 10-13-
            with North East Street                                                             1986
Barry Drive At its intersection with Grant Boulevard requiring westbound traffic on      89-7  6-26-
            Barry Drive to stop at its intersection with Grant Boulevard                       1989
Barry Drive At its intersection with Grant Boulevard; 3-way stop                         94-5  6-13-
                                                                                               1994
Brookside   At its intersection with Morningside Drive                                   90-5  5-29-
Drive                                                                                          1990
Caraway     At its intersection with Evelyn Way; 3-way stop                              94-14 11-28-
Street                                                                                         1994
Caraway     At its intersection with Campbell Street; 3-way stop                         94-14 11-28-
Street                                                                                         1994
Caraway     At its intersection with Sam Ralston Road                                    94-14 11-28-
Street                                                                                         1994
Clear Vista At its intersection with Witt Avenue; 3-way stop                             2018- 8-13-
Drive                                                                                    11    2018
Countryside At its intersection with Elm Swamp Road                                      97-6  5-27-
Drive                                                                                          1997
Douglas     At its intersection with Northfield Drive; 4-way stop                        03-07 - -2003
Lane
East        Four-way stop at the intersection of East Fordice Street and North Grant           11-9-
Fordice     Street                                                                       88-15 1988
Street
East Noble  Intersection of Spencer Avenue (SR 32 East) for eastbound traffic on East    88-19 10-24-
Street      Noble Street                                                                       1988
East                                                                                     2016- 1-9-
Williams    At its intersection with North Park Street; 3-way stop                       14    2017
Street
Elizaville  At its intersection with Elm Swamp Road; 3-way stop                          2020- 9-14-
Road                                                                                     08    2020
Elm Swamp   At its intersection with Angilee Way; 4-way stop                             2015- 1-11-
Road                                                                                     20    2016
Garfield    At its intersection with Esplanade Street; 4-way stop                        97-7  6-23-
Street                                                                                         1997
Golfside    At its intersection with S. Muirfield Circle; 3-way stop                     2015- 2-9-
Drive                                                                                    03    2015
Grant       At its intersection with Elm Swamp Road                                      88-8  7-11-
Boulevard                                                                                      1988
Hamilton    At its intersection with Green Street; 4-way stop                            2012- 3-26-
Street                                                                                   06    2012
Helena      Intersection with Geri Street                                                86-18 10-13-
Drive                                                                                          1986
Hendricks   At the intersection with Hendricks and its termination with Indianapolis     88-17 10-10-
Drive       Avenue                                                                             1988
Hendricks   Intersection with Thompson Street                                            88-17 10-10-
Drive                                                                                          1988
Howard      At its intersection with Park Street                                         92-3  3-23-
Street                                                                                         1992
Howard      At its intersection with East Street                                         92-3  3-23-
Street                                                                                         192
Howard      At its intersection with Meridian Street                                     92-3  3-23-
Street                                                                                         1992
Howard      At its intersection with North Lebanon Street                                92-3  3-23-
Street                                                                                         1992
Lafayette   At its intersection with West Main Street; 3-way stop                        2020- 9-14-
Avenue                                                                                   08    2020
Longley     At its intersection with Birchwood Drive; 3-way stop                         01-04 5-14-
Drive                                                                                          2001
Main Street At its intersection with East Street; 4-way stop                             96-8  4-22-
                                                                                               1996
Meridian    At its intersection with Main Street; 4-way stop                             00-11 7-24-
Street                                                                                         2000
Northfield  At its intersection with Garfield Street; 4-way stop                         03-07 - -2003
Drive
Northfield  At its intersection with Douglas Lane; 4-way stop                            04-01 1-26-
Drive                                                                                          2004
Northfield  At its intersection with Garfield Street; 4-way stop                         06-02 2-27-
Drive                                                                                          2006
Nottingham  At its intersection with Countryside Drive                                   97-6  5-27-
Lane                                                                                           1997
Park Street An elevated stop sign suspended above the intersection with Washington       91-10 10-14-
            Street for traffic to come to a 4-way stop                                         1991
Riley Road  At its intersection with Lafayette Avenue; 3-way stop                        2018- 8-13-
                                                                                         11    2018
Riley Road  At its intersection with Sam Ralston Road                                    03-17 9-22-
                                                                                               2003
            Three-way stop at the intersection of Sherri Lane and Grant Boulevard,             6-26-
Sherri Lane requiring traffic westbound on Sherri Lane to stop at its intersection with  89-7  1989
            Grant Boulevard
South Elm   At its intersection with Elm Street; 4-way stop                              98-2  3-9-
Street                                                                                         1998
South                                                                                          3-9-
Meridian    At its intersection with Elm Street; 4-way stop                              98-2  1998
Street
South West  At its intersection with Elm Street; 4-way stop                              03-03 1-27-
Street                                                                                         2003
Spyglass    Eastbound at its intersection with Turnberry Drive                           06-03 2-27-
Court                                                                                          2006
Superior    At its intersection with Meridian Street and East Street; 4-way stop         2012- 3-26-
Street                                                                                   05    2012
Tiger Way   At its intersection with East Street; 4-way stop                             2018- 8-13-
                                                                                         11    2018
Turnberry   Southbound at its intersection with Golfside Drive                           06-03 2-27-
Drive                                                                                          2006
Ulen        At its intersection with Westmoor Drive; 3-way stop                          94-4  5-9-
Overlook                                                                                       1994
Wendy Lane  At its intersection with Westmoor Drive                                      94-4  5-9-
                                                                                               1994
Wendy Lane  At its intersection with Ulen Overlook                                       94-4  5-9-
                                                                                               1994
West Main   At its intersection with West Main Street Extension requiring eastbound
Street      traffic on West Main Street Extension to stop before entering West Main      91-1  - -
            Street
West Main   At its intersection with Sam Ralston Road                                    91-1  - -
Street
 
   (A)   A violation of the provisions of the city code shall amount to a
traffic violation and a fine shall be imposed as set by the City Court for like
offenses.
   (B)   Each day of the offense shall constitute a new and separate offense.
SCHEDULE VI.  HEAVY LOADS.
   (A)   Vehicles over four tons.  All vehicles of a gross weight over 8,000
pounds are prohibited from using those parts of Dick, Green and Coombs Streets
set out in
Chapter 77, Schedule I, divisions (J), (K) and (L); provided, however, this
restriction shall not apply to city vehicles performing a city service; nor
shall the restriction apply to that part of Coombs Street south from West South
Street to Dicks Street. All vehicles using the above parts of Coombs Street
shall not exceed the weight limits set by the state for travel on state
highways.
(Prior Code, § 16-18.5)
   (B)   Heavy truck traffic.  Heavy truck traffic on East Noble Street between
its intersection with Indianapolis Avenue (also known as Business Route State
Road 52) and Spencer Avenue/State Road 32 in excess of 11,000 pounds is
expressly prohibited.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule, for which no
other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
      (2)   A violation of the provisions of the city code pertaining to
division (B) above shall amount to a city ordinance violation, and upon finding
a violation, the violator shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $100. Each
offense shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(Ord. 83-21, passed 10-10-1983; Ord. 83-26, passed 12-28-1983; Ord. 89-6,
passed 7-10-1989)
CHAPTER 77:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
   
II.   Handicapped parking
SCHEDULE I.  PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking shall be prohibited as follows:
   (A)   On the north side of Essex Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the east line of Garfield Street;
   (B)   On the south side of Essex Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the east line of Jameson Street;
   (C)   On the south side of Busby Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the east line of West Street;
   (D)   On the north side of Busby Street between the east line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the west line of Meridian Street;
   (E)   On the south side of Busby Street between the east line of East Street
and the west line of Park Street;
   (F)   On the south side of Esplanade Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and east line of Hoy Avenue;
   (G)   On the east side of Esplanade Court north of the north line of
Esplanade Street;
   (H)   On the south side of Fordice Street between the east line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and west line of Park Street;
   (I)   On the north side of Fordice Street between the east line of Park
Street and the west line of Grant Street;
   (J)   On the south side of Washington Street between the east line of Park
Street and the west line of Grant Street;
   (K)   In the midblock crosswalk areas on the north, east and south sides of
the courthouse square;
   (L)   On the south side of Dicks Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the east line of Patterson Street;
   (M)   On the south side of Green Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the east line of Patterson Street;
   (N)   On the east side of Coombs Street between the south line of Dicks
Street and the north line of Noble Street;
   (O)   On the east side of Coombs Street between the north line of Dicks
Street and the south line of South Street (Indiana State Road 32);
   (P)   On the south side of Ash Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the east line of Coombs Street;
   (Q)   On the south side of Ash Street between the east line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the west line of Meridian Street;
   (R)   On the south side of Walnut Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the east line of Coombs Street;
   (S)   On the south side of Walnut Street between the east line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the west line of Meridian Street;
   (T)   On the west side of Kersey Street south of Chicago Street;
   (U)   On the south side of Chicago Street between the east line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the first alley east of East Street;
   (V)   On the south side of Chicago Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and east line of Lafayette Ave;
   (W)   Ten-minute maximum parking duration between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. on Saturday on the
north side of Main Street between the west line of West Street and the first
alley on the west side of the United States Post Office having an address of
304 West Main Street;
   (X)   On the south side of Somerset Drive west of the west line of Grant
Street between April 1 and October 1;
   (Y)   On the north and south sides of Riley Road between the west line of
Lafayette Ave and the east line of Danielle Road;
   (Z)   On the north side of Riley Road between the west line Danielle Road
and the east edge of the Riley Court cul-de-sac;
   (AA)   Within the Riley Road Court cul-de-sac;
   (BB)   On the south side of Royal Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the east line of Roy Ave;
   (CC)   On the north side of Royal Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the east line of West Street;
   (DD)   On the south side of Baronne Street between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the dead end of Baronne Street west of
Garfield Street;
   (EE)   On Lebanon Street (Indiana State road 39) north of the north line of
Washington Street;
   (FF)   On Lebanon Street (Indiana State road 39) south of the south line of
Main Street;
   (GG)   Two-hour maximum parking duration between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday on Lebanon Street (Indiana State Road 39)
between the north line of Main Street and the south line of Washington Street;
   (HH)   On the west side of West Street between the north line of North
Street and the south line of Williams Street;
   (II)   On the east and west sides of Lafayette Avenue;
   (JJ)   Within Terrace Lane cul-de-sac;
   (KK)   On the east side of Lakeshore Court;
   (LL)   On the south side of Lakeshore Drive;
   (MM)   On the south side of Green Street between the east line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the west line of Pleasant Street;
   (NN)   On the south side of East Elm Street;
   (OO)   On the west side of East Street between the north line of Washington
Street and the south line of the first alley north or Fordice Road;
   (PP)   On the west side of East Street between Ulen Drive and the first
alley north of the bridge over Prairie Creek;
   (QQ)   On the west side of Meridian Street between Williams Street and Ulen
Drive;
   (RR)   On the west side of Meridian Street between Elm Street and Thompson
Street;
   (SS)   On the south side of Maple Drive between the west line of Lebanon
Street (Indiana State Road 39) and the east line of Garfield Street;
   (TT)   Two-hour maximum parking duration between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday on Main Street between the east line of West
Street and the west line of East Street, on Washington Street between the east
line of West Street and the west line of East Street, on Meridian Street
between the north line of South Street (Indiana State Road 32) and the south
line of North Street;
   (UU)   Within ten feet of either side of any fire hydrant or as indicated by
yellow painted curb lines and/or edges of pavement indicating "NO PARKING"
area;
   (VV)   Within 20 feet of any cross walk or as indicated by yellow painted
curb lines and/or edges of pavement indicating "NO PARKING" area;
   (WW)   Within ten feet of any residential driveway or as indicated by yellow
painted curb lines and/or edges of pavement indicating "NO PARKING" area;
   (XX)   Within ten feet of any alley entryway or as indicated by yellow
painted curb lines and/or edges of pavement indicating "NO PARKING" area;
   (YY)   Within 20 feet of any public right-of-way street intersection or as
indicated by yellow painted curb lines and/or edges of pavement indicating "NO
PARKING" area;
   (ZZ)   In areas where signs containing the words "NO PARKING" have been
erected as approved by the City of Lebanon Board of Public Works and Safety;
   (AAA)   On the east and west sides of Shorewood Drive 150 feet south of the
south line of CR 250 North (Anderson Lane);
   (BBB)   Onto and or blocking any sidewalk, walkway, path, or trail located
within the public right-of-way;
   (CCC)   On the North side of Williams Street between a point approximately
70 feet west of the west line of North Meridian Street to the west line of
Meridian Street;
(Prior Code, § 16-34(c))  (Ord. passed 6-13-1955; Ord. passed 2-8-1960; Ord.
83-8, passed 6-13-1983; Ord. 83-16, passed 7-25-1983; Ord. 83-21, passed 10-10-
1983; Ord. 86-2, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 86-9, passed 7-28-1986; Ord. 87-10,
passed 10-12-1987; Ord. 10-11, passed - -; Ord. 10-18, passed 8-9-2010; Ord.
10-17, passed 8-23-2010; Ord. 2016-08, passed 10-12-2016; Ord. 2019-02, passed
2-11-2019; Ord. 2020- 05, passed 3-9-2020) )
SCHEDULE II.  HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   Handicapped parking.
      (1)   There is established a handicapped parking space on the west side
of North Lebanon Street directly north of the alley running east and west which
bisects the County Courthouse, which space is presently and shall continue to
be a parallel parking space.
      (2)   There is established a handicapped parking space on the north side
of Washington Street at the intersection of Washington and West Streets,
adjacent to the County License Branch and two handicapped parking spaces
adjacent to the southwest door to the gymnasium of Memory Hall.
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) shall amount to a city ordinance
violation and upon a finding of violation, the violator shall be fined in a sum
not to exceed $25. Each day of the violation shall constitute a new and
separate offense.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(2) shall amount to a city ordinance
violation and upon a finding of violation, the violator shall be fined in a sum
not to exceed $25. Each day of the violation shall constitute a new and
separate offense.
(Ord. 85-7, passed - -; Ord. 87-15, passed 1-11-1988)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ADVERTISING
      
91.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
      
92.   BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION CODE
      
95.   FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION
      
96.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
97.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
98.   JUNK AND JUNKYARDS
      
99.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
100.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
101.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
      
102.   WELLS
CHAPTER 90:  ADVERTISING
Section
   
90.01   Posting of bills and the like restricted
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  POSTING OF BILLS AND THE LIKE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post any bill or advertisement of any
kind upon any telephone pole, electric light pole or traction company pole in
the city or to post any bill or bills or advertisements of any kind upon any
public place or building in the city, except on signboards specially arranged
for that purpose. A sign that is placed in violation shall be removed from the
city.
(Prior Code, § 3-1)  (Ord. passed 5-8-1911)
Cross-reference:
   Sign regulations, see Title XV, §
7.7
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the provisions of §
90.01 shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $25 per sign.
(Prior Code, § 3-1)  (Ord. passed 5-8-1911)
CHAPTER 91:  ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Keeping of livestock within or near city limits prohibited
   
91.02   Parking of vehicles containing cattle, sheep and swine restricted
   
91.03   Fowl prohibited at large
Dogs and Cats
   
91.15   Prohibited at large
   
91.16   To be kept on leash when off property of owners
   
91.17   Failure to vaccinate for rabies declared unlawful
   
91.18   Pound
   
91.19   Animal waste
Licenses
   
91.35   Required
   
91.36   Proof of rabies vaccination prerequisite to issuance
   
91.37   Fees
   
91.38   Disposition of fees
   
91.39   Register
   
91.40   Tag; receipt
   
91.41   Tag to be attached to collar; attachment to another dog declared
unlawful
   
91.42   Replacement tag; fee
   
91.43   Expiration; renewal
Impoundment
   
91.55   Disposition of impounded dogs and cats
   
91.56   Redemption fines
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK WITHIN OR NEAR CITY LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   For provisions regarding the keeping of livestock within or near the city
limits, please see the Unified Development Ordinance.
§ 91.02  PARKING OF VEHICLES CONTAINING CATTLE, SHEEP AND SWINE RESTRICTED.
   No person shall allow or permit any vehicle containing cattle, sheep or
swine to be parked, stopped or remain standing in the corporate limits of the
city for any aggregate period or periods longer than one hour.
(Prior Code, § 5-2)  (Ord. passed 6-28-1954)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  FOWL PROHIBITED AT LARGE.
   For provisions regarding the keeping of fowl inside the city limits, please
see the Unified Development Ordinance.
DOGS AND CATS
§ 91.15  PROHIBITED AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or harboring any dog or cat to
permit any dog or cat to run at large in any of the streets, alleys, public
parks, business sections or commons of the city, or on property of another
other than the owner of the dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 5-15)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974; Ord. 84-3, passed 2-27-
1984)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16  TO BE KEPT ON LEASH WHEN OFF PROPERTY OF OWNERS.
   Any dog or cat on the streets of the city shall be on a leash and
accompanied by his or her owner. When not on a leash, the dog or cat shall be
confined to the property of his or her owner.
(Prior Code, § 5-16)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17  FAILURE TO VACCINATE FOR RABIES DECLARED UNLAWFUL.
   The failure to keep a dog or cat vaccinated for rabies shall be a violation
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-17)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18  POUND.
   (A)   Established.  There is hereby established an animal pound for the
city.
   (B)   Operation.  The operation of an animal pound may be as follows.
      (1)   The city may establish and operate an animal pound as a department
of the city, furnishing all facilities, funds and personnel therefor.
      (2)   The animal pound shall be operated in accordance with rules and
regulations recommended by the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city and
approved by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-19)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974; Ord. 78-9, passed 4-24-
1978)
§ 91.19  ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each dog owner or person having possession,
custody or control of a dog to remove any feces left by the dog on any
sidewalk, gutter, street, walkway or other public area within the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a guide dog, hearing
dog or service dog accompanying a disabled person.
(Ord. 99-9, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
91.99
LICENSES
§ 91.35  REQUIRED.
   The owners of all dogs and cats within the limits of the city shall purchase
a license therefor from the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 5-26)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974)
§ 91.36  PROOF OF RABIES VACCINATION PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE.
   Before the Clerk-Treasurer issues the license required by this subchapter,
the owner of a dog or cat must show proof that the dog or cat has been
vaccinated for the disease of rabies.
(Prior Code, § 5-27)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974)
§ 91.37  FEES.
   The fees for the license required by this subchapter shall be $3 for male
dogs and spayed females and $10 for unspayed females. There is no fee for cats.
(Prior Code, § 5-28)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974)
§ 91.38  DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All funds received from fees for licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter
shall be kept in a special fund and used for the operation of a municipal
animal pound.
(Prior Code, § 5-29)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974)
§ 91.39  REGISTER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a register showing the name of the owner of
each dog and cat licensed pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-30)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974)
§ 91.40  TAG; RECEIPT.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish each owner of a dog and cat
licensed pursuant to this subchapter with a metal tag, upon which shall be
impressed or inscribed a number.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall give each owner a receipt for the license
upon which shall be noted the number of the tag issued to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 5-31)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974)
§ 91.41  TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO COLLAR; ATTACHMENT TO ANOTHER DOG DECLARED
UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   The license tags issued to the owners of dogs and cats pursuant to
this subchapter shall be attached to some durable material which shall be worn
by the dog or cat at all times. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove
the collar or tag from a dog or cat.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to attach the license tag
issued hereunder to any dog or cat other than that for which it was issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-32)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42  REPLACEMENT TAG; FEE.
   In case a license tag issued pursuant to this subchapter is lost, a
substitute tag may be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer upon the payment of a fee
of $1.
(Prior Code, § 5-33)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974)
§ 91.43  EXPIRATION; RENEWAL.
   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall expire one year from the
date of issuance. The failure of any owner to renew the license shall be a
violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-34)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 91.55  DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   All dogs and cats taken to the city dog pound pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter shall be disposed of as follows.
      (1)   Licensed.  All licensed dogs and cats will be identified and the
owners notified. These dogs and cats will be held in the pound for a period of
seven days to be claimed by the owner. In the event the owner claims a dog or
cat, he or she shall pay the fine set out in §
91.56 before the dog will be released.
      (2)   Unlicensed.  All unlicensed dogs and cats will be considered stray.
These dogs and cats shall be held in the pound for a period of three days. In
the event the owner of a dog or cat claims him or her within that period, he or
she shall present proof of the purchase of a license therefor and in addition
shall pay the fine set out in §
91.56.
   (B)   In addition to the charges set out above for license, the owner shall
be responsible for payment of the board of the dog during the period it was
held in the pound or detention facility. The board per animal per day is
established as $5 and may be amended at the discretion of the city’s Financial
Board.
   (C)   In the event any dog remains unclaimed at the end of the period set
out in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section, it shall be taken care of
in a humane manner by the operator of the animal pound.
(Prior Code, § 5-41)  (Ord. 74-4, passed 2-25-1974; Ord. 84-3, passed 2-27-
1984)
§ 91.56  REDEMPTION FINES.
   (A)   There is hereby established the following schedule of fines to be
imposed on the owners of dogs claimed at the animal pound:
      (1)   For the first offense, $25;
      (2)   For the second offense, $50; and
      (3)   For all subsequent offenses, $100.
   (B)   These fines shall be collected by the operator of the city animal
pound and remitted at the close of each day to the Clerk-Treasurer of the city.
These fines shall be deposited in the special fund set out in §
91.38.
(Prior Code, § 5-42)  (Ord. 93-11, passed 8-9-1993)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §
91.19 shall constitute a violation punishable by a fine of not more than $25.
      (2)   For the purposes of enforcing the provisions of §
91.19, summons and court citations may be issued by all authorized park
personnel, Street Department personnel, police officers, reserve police
officers and their authorized deputies, Fire Department personnel and the
Building Inspector of the city and his or her authorized designees.
(Ord. 99-9, passed - -)
CHAPTER 92:  BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Title
   
92.002   Purpose
   
92.003   Authority
   
92.004   Scope
   
92.005   Conformance to code
   
92.006   Rebuilding or reconstruction of homes in floodway areas
   
92.007   Fees other than for building permits
   
92.008   Electric and gas meters
   
92.009   Codes adopted
Building Permits
   
92.020   Required
   
92.021   Application and review
   
92.022   Fees
   
92.023   Separate wiring, heating and plumbing permits required
   
92.024   Inspections; generally
   
92.025   Inspections; assistance
   
92.026   Right of entry
   
92.027   Stop work order
   
92.028   Certificate of occupancy
   
92.029   Workmanship
   
92.030   Violations
   
92.031   Right of appeal
   
92.032   Remedies; injunctive relief
Contractor Licensing and Registration; Generally
   
92.045   License required; application
   
92.046   Examination; notice of results
   
92.047   Bond, insurance, refrigerant transition and recovery certification
prerequisite to issuance of license
   
92.048   Issuance; fee; renewal
   
92.049   Revocation of license or registration
   
92.050   License term
   
92.051   Nonlicensed contractors
Plumbing
   
92.065   Registration of plumbers; required
   
92.066   Application; fee; bond
   
92.067   Submission of application to Board of Registration
   
92.068   Issuance of certificate
   
92.069   Certificate term; renewal
   
92.070   Board of registration
General Contractors
   
92.085   Registration; required
   
92.086   Application; fee; bond
   
92.087   Issuance of certificate
   
92.088   Certificate term; renewal
Moving Buildings
   
92.115   Permit required
   
92.116   Application for permit; accompanying bond
   
92.117   Notice to move wires; moving of wires
Unsafe Buildings
   
92.130   Unsafe building law established
   
92.131   State laws adopted
   
92.132   Public nuisance declared
   
92.133   Ordering repair or removal of unsafe buildings
   
92.134   Authority
   
92.135   Definition of unsafe building
   
92.136   Definition of substantial property interest
   
92.137   Workmanship; rules and standards adopted
   
92.138   Unsafe Building Fund established
   
92.139   Compliance required; violations
   
92.140   Hearing authority
   
92.141   Injunctive relief and the like; recovery of judgement by city
   
92.142   Bond
Construction
   92.150   Control and maintenance of construction sites
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001  TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the “Building Code of the City of Lebanon, Indiana” and may be cited
as such, and will be referred to herein as “this code.”
(Prior Code, § 7-1)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.002  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimal standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Prior Code, § 7-2)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.003  AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector/Director of Planning and Zoning Administration is
hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce all of the provisions
of this code, the zoning code, as amended, and all other provisions of the
master plan of the city, as amended. Whenever in this code it is provided that
anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the direction of the
Building Inspector/Director of Planning and Zoning Administration, or any other
officer of that office, this shall be construed to give the officer only the
discretion of determining whether this code has been complied with; and no
provisions shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what this code shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by
ordinances or to enforce this code in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
(Prior Code, § 7-2.1)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.004  SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this code and any amendments hereto, apply to the
construction, alterations, repair, use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to
all buildings or structures, other than fences, in the city. The provisions of
this code do not apply to industrialized building systems or mobile structures
that are certified under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (B)   Building rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following articles of Title 675 of the I.A.C. are
hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall include later
amendments to those articles as the same are published in the Indiana Register
of Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 12:  Concerning Administrative Procedure for Rule Making to
Prevent Conflict, Duplication and Overlap Between State-Wide Codes of Building
and Fire Safety Laws and Local Ordinances;
      (2)   Article 13:  Building Codes.
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   State Building Codes;
         (c)   State Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   State Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (3)   Article 14:  One- and Two-Family Dwelling Codes.
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials, One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code;
         (b)   CABO One-and Two-Family Dwelling Codes; Amendments; and
         (c)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (4)   Article 16:  Plumbing Codes.  State Plumbing Codes;
      (5)   Article 17:  Electrical Codes.
         (a)   State Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (6)   Article 18:  Mechanical Codes.  State Mechanical Code;
      (7)   Article 19-Energy Conservation Codes.
         (a)   State Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (8)   Article 20: Swimming Pool Codes.  State Swimming Pool Code.
   (C)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the Building Inspector/Director of Planning and Development, 201
East Main Street, Municipal Building, City of Lebanon, Lebanon, Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 7-2.2)
§ 92.005  CONFORMANCE TO CODE.
   (A)   All work done by or under the supervision of any person licensed for
the business of electrical wiring hereunder shall conform to the minimum
standards of this chapter, as amended, provided that any commercial or
industrial building proposed to be constructed shall meet the specifications
required in the No. 1 Fire Zone; and further that No. 12 wire shall be used
instead of No. 14 wire for all electrical work, except that No. 14 copper wire
shall be permitted in fire alarm and lighting circuits, as specified in the
National Electric Code, in one and two family dwelling structures.
   (B)   All work done by or under the supervision of any person licensed for
the business of heating and ventilating or registered for plumbing shall
conform to the minimum requirements of this chapter; provided that all new or
replacement water feed lines to buildings shall have a minimum size of three-
fourths of an inch inside diameter; and that all water service shall have a
main shut-off valve.
   (C)   HEATING AND VENTILATING shall be construed to include warm air heating
and duct ventilating and air conditioning.
(Prior Code, § 7-3)  (Ord. 74-17, passed 9-9-1974; Ord. 2013-11, passed 7-22-
2013)
§ 92.006  REBUILDING OR RECONSTRUCTION OF HOMES IN FLOODWAY AREAS.
   The city hereby enacts this section to permit the rebuilding or
reconstruction of an abode or residence pursuant to the requirements of I.C.14-
28-1. This authority extends to those abodes or residences in the city which
are destroyed by means other than the floodway which permit construction to
begin within one year from the date of destruction and which must be completed
within two years from the date of destruction. The same further requires a
variance be obtained from the local Board of Zoning Appeals for the lowest
floor of an abode or residence which may be below the 100-year frequency flood
elevation if the damage to the former abode or residence is less than 100%. In
addition, the authority herein granted shall require that any applicant who may
be affected subsequent to the enactment of this subchapter otherwise comply
with all of the statutory requirements as set forth in I.C. 13-2-22-13 as the
same may be amended from time to time and the requirements from House Enrolled
Act No. 1022.
(Prior Code, § 7-4)  (Ord. 90-3, passed 5-14-1990)
§ 92.007  FEES OTHER THAN FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Applications and petitions shall be prepared on forms provided by the
Department of Planning and Zoning and shall be accompanied by the filing fees
herein specified. The fees shall be paid to the Director of Planning and
Zoning, who shall forthwith pay over to the Clerk-Treasurer to the credit of
the general funds of the city and no part of which shall be returnable to the
applicant.
   (B)   Until all applicable fees have been paid in full, no application shall
be processed by the Director of Planning and Development.
   (C)   No part of any filing fee paid pursuant to this section shall be
redeemable.
   (D)   See §§
92.022 and
92.045 for additional schedules of fees set forth in this code.
   (E)   Applications for the following specific petitions, appeals and
certificates of occupancy and the like shall be accompanied by the following
fees;
Filing Fees and Forms Fee (effective 11-10-2015)
Filing Fees and Forms                 Fee (effective 11-10-2015)
Amendment; change of zoning
   Classification/or text          $500
Appealing decision of Administrator   $250
Conditional uses                      $300
Development plan; change in           $300
Plat review
   Administrative plat             $200
   Primary plat                    $500 plus $25.00 per acre
   Secondary plat                  $300 plus $25.00 per acre
PUD development plan
   Final detailed plan             $300 plus $25 per acre
   Modification to approved PUD pla$300
   Preliminary plan                $750 plus $25 per acre
   Rezoning                        $300
Unit development plan
   Site development plan           $500 plus $25 per acre
Variance/use variance
   Commercial (per variance request$350
   Residential (per variance reques$250
Vacation of alley or platted street
   Application fee                 $100
   Vacation fee                    $750
 
   (F)   The following county economic development administrative plat fees are
to be collected by City Planning and Zoning Department before a building permit
is issued.
 Fee (effective 3-14-2011)
                                                                      Fee
                                                                      (effective
                                                                      3-14-2011)
                                                                      $50 per
Changing single-family into multi-family                              residential
                                                                      living unit
Commercial/ industrial new construction, remodel, renovation
structures
      0–19,999 square feet                                    $100
      20,000–49,999 square feet                               $250
      50,000–149,999 square feet                              $500
      150,000–249,999 square feet                             $1,000
      250,000 square feet and above                             $2,000
                                                                      $50 per
Multi-family development (apartments, condominiums, and town homes)   residential
                                                                      living unit
To be collected by County Auditor’s office at the time of recording
plat
                                                                      $75 per
   Single-family residential development                           platted
                                                                      residential
                                                                      lot
 
(Prior Code, § 7-9)  (Ord. 74-12, passed 9-9-1974; Ord. 74-17, passed 9-9-1974;
Ord. 75-16, passed 11-10-1975; Ord. 2015-15, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 92.008  ELECTRIC AND GAS METERS.
   (A)   In all multifamily dwelling projects, the owner/developer/builder
shall identify electric and gas meters by apartment, condominium or building
number by visible permanent identification markings not less than two inches in
height and attached directly to the outside meter(s) or electrical box.
   (B)   The identification shall be done at the time gas or electric service
is installed at the residence.
   (C)   The Office of the Building Inspector shall be charged with the
enforcement of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-13)  (Ord. 96-9, passed 4-22-1996)
§ 92.009  CODES ADOPTED.
   The following building codes and the rules and regulations of the Indiana
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission (as contained in 675 IAC), as
they may be updated and amended from time to time are hereby adopted and shall
be utilized by the PZA Department to inspect buildings and structures within
the city:
Commercial building code:        International Building Code 2006 Edition, 1st
                                 Printing
Residential building code:       International Residential Code 2003 Edition
Plumbing code:                   Indiana Plumbing Code 2012 Edition
Electric code:                   National Electric Code 2008
Mechanical code:                 International Mechanical Code 2006 Edition,
                                 1st Printing
Residential energy code:         International Energy Conservation Code
Commercial energy code:          Indiana Energy Conservation Code 2010 - ASHRE
                                 90.1, 2007 Edition
Fire code:                       International Fire Code 2006, 1st Printing
Fuel gas code:                   International Fuel Gas Code 2006 Edition, 1st
                                 Printing
Swimming pool code:              Indiana Swimming Pool Code, 675 IAC 20
Industrialized building systems: 675 IAC 15
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-24-2013)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 92.020  REQUIRED.
   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, remove, move, improve,
convert or demolish any building or structure within the city, or cause the
same to be done, the cost of which exceeds $500, until first having obtained a
separate building permit for each building or structure from the Director of
Planning and Development, who may require plans thereof, together with a
statement of materials to be used.
(Prior Code, § 7-24)  (Ord. 74-17, passed 9-8-1974; Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-
1988)
§ 92.021  APPLICATION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   To obtain a building permit, the applicant must file an application
therefor on forms to be furnished by the Director of Planning and Development,
and every applicant shall complete all information requested on the form.
   (B)   Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by two
sets of plans and specifications, a plat or sketch of the proposed locations
showing lot boundaries, and the work to be done. In addition, a copy of a
design release, issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire
Marshal, per I.C. 22-15-3-1, shall be provided to the Building Inspector/
Director of Planning and Development before issuance of a permit for
construction covered by the design release.
   (C)   (1)   The application, plans and specifications filed by an applicant
for a building permit shall be checked by the Director of Planning or his or
her representative. If the Director of Planning and Development is satisfied
that the work described in the application for a building permit and the plans
filed therewith, conform to the requirements of this Building Code and other
pertinent laws and ordinances, he or she shall issue a building permit therefor
to the applicant.
      (2)   When the Director of Planning and Development issues the building
permit, he or she shall endorse in writing and stamp on plans and
specifications the word “approved.” The approved plans and specifications shall
not be changed, modified or altered without authorization by the Director of
Planning and Development. All work done under any permit shall be in full
compliance with all other ordinances pertaining thereto and, in addition to the
fees for permits, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in these ordinances.
   (D)   In reviewing the applications for improvement location permits for
compliance with the requirements of this code, the Director of Planning and
Development shall assure that all necessary permits from other state, federal
and local agencies have been obtained.
   (E)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Inspector/
Director of Planning and Development shall:
      (1)   Review all building permit applications to determine full
compliance with the provisions of this code;
      (2)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether the proposed building sites will
be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
         (a)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         (b)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (4)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction, (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
         (a)   Is protected against flood damage;
         (b)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
         (c)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (F)   No building permit will be issued to a person, firm, corporation or
otherwise, that shall cause a violation of I.C. 22-15-3-7.
(Prior Code, § 7-25)  (Ord. 74-17, passed 9-9-1974; Ord. 82-7, passed 4-26-
1982; Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.022  FEES.
   (A)   Applications filed pursuant to the provisions of this code shall be in
accompanied by a check, money order or cash made payable to the city in the
amount which is in accordance with the fees set forth in this code.
   (B)   Until all applicable fees have been paid in full, no permit shall be
granted by the Director of Planning and Development.
   (C)   No part of any filing fees paid pursuant to this section shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (D)   The following building permit fees include the improvement location
permit fee for those applications listed below.
   (E)   All additional fees and fines must be paid in full before a final
certificate of occupancy is granted.
Application for Building Permit               Fee (effective 11-10-2015)
(Improvement Location Permit Fee Is Included)
Application for Building Permit                                                   Fee
(Improvement Location Permit Fee Is Included)                                     (effective
                                                                                  11-10-2015)
Communication tower                                                               $500
Fire Department nonresidential building permit fees
                                                                                  $350 plus
                                                                                  $0.03 per
   Addition or remodel of existing building plan review and inspection fee     square foot
                                                                                  (max of
                                                                                  $2,000)
   Building reinspection                                                       $75
   Code variance review                                                        $75
                                                                                  $400 plus
                                                                                  $0.03 per
   New building plan review and inspection fee                                 square foot
                                                                                  (max of
                                                                                  $2,000)
Nonresidential permits (industrial and commercial buildings)
                                                                                  $300 plus
                                                                                  $0.10 per
   Addition to existing structure, per building                                square
                                                                                  footage of
                                                                                  total floor
                                                                                  area
   Certificate of compliance                                                   $100
   Certificate of occupancy                                                    $100
                                                                                  $100 plus
   Demolition of structures                                                    $0.01 per
                                                                                  square foot
                                                                                  of building
   Electrical permit
      New service installation                                              $100
      Meter base upgrade                                                    $100
                                                                                  $350 plus
                                                                                  $0.10 per
   Each structure per building                                                 square
                                                                                  footage of
                                                                                  total floor
                                                                                  area
   Fence permit                                                                $50
   Grading permit/land disturbance permit                                      $200
   Heating and air permit                                                      $100
   Improvement location permit (required with development plan)                $500
   Off-street parking lots (operated by private enterprise for revenue purposes$4
excludes local, state, federal government units) per parking stall
   Plan review fee                                                             $350
   Plumbing permit                                                             $100
   Reinspections                                                               $100
                                                                                  $200 plus
                                                                                  $0.08 per
                                                                                  square foot
                                                                                  (*Historical
   Remodeling: repair or renovations of commercial structures                  District
                                                                                  building
                                                                                  receives 50%
                                                                                  reduction in
                                                                                  fee)
   Reroofing (tear-off and replacement)                                        $75
                                                                                  $150 (If
                                                                                  inspection
                                                                                  is done in
   Temporary certificate of occupancy                                          addition to
                                                                                  final
                                                                                  certificate
                                                                                  of
                                                                                  occupancy)
Residential permits
   Accessory structures
      Fence installation permit                                             $30
      Swimming pools, (includes in or above ground portable or stationary 2 feet
depth and 12 feet diameter minimum dimension)
         Above ground                                                    $50
         In ground                                                       $100
                                                                                  $150 plus
                                                                                  $0.10 per
   Additions to existing structures (residential dwellings)                    square
                                                                                  footage
                                                                                  total floor
                                                                                  area
   Demolition of building structures
      Accessory building                                                    $25
      Residential                                                           $35
   Detached garages, carport, storage buildings and other accessory buildings
      Over 200 square feet                                                  $100
      Under 200 square feet                                                 $50
   Electrical permit
      Meter base upgrade                                                    $50
      New service install                                                   $50
   Heating and air permit                                                      $25
   Home occupation permits                                                     $25
   Moving or changing locations of a building
      Accessory building                                                    $20
      Principal building                                                    $50
   Multifamily and two-family dwelling, apartment buildings, garden apartments,
condominiums, cooperatives, mobile homes in parks, town homes, each building
      First unit                                                            $250
                                                                                  plus $0.10
                                                                                  per square
      Each additional unit                                                  foot of
                                                                                  total floor
                                                                                  area
      Reinspection                                                          $100
   Plumbing permit                                                             $25
   Reinspection                                                                $100
                                                                                  $100 plus
   Remodeling: repair or renovations of residential structures                 $0.05 per
                                                                                  square foot
   Reroof (tear-off and replacement)                                           $45
                                                                                  $250 plus
   Single-family dwelling                                                      $0.10 per
                                                                                  square foot
                                                                                  $50 (if
                                                                                  inspection
                                                                                  is done in
   Temporary certificate of occupancy                                          addition to
                                                                                  final
                                                                                  certificate
                                                                                  of
                                                                                  occupancy)
                                                                                  $60 minimum
                                                                                  or $1 per
Sign permit                                                                       square foot
                                                                                  which ever
                                                                                  is greater
Temporary use
   Temporary vendor permit                                                     $50
      a.  Festivals
      b.  Home sales facility
      c.  Seasonal sales
      d.  Signage
      e.  Temporary office
      f.  Other uses specified by the Plan Commission
   (The above temporary vendor permits shall not apply to solicitation activities
for the benefit of political, charitable or religious organizations or causes)
Zoning certification letter                                                       $50
 
(Prior Code, § 7-26)  (Ord. 74-12, passed 9-9-1974; Ord. 75-16, passed 11-10-
1975; Ord. 2015-15, passed 11-10-2015; Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 92.023  SEPARATE WIRING, HEATING AND PLUMBING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An owner, agent or general contractor may make application for a
building permit; provided that a licensed electrician shall apply separately
for a wiring permit; and a licensed heating and ventilating tradesman shall
apply separately for a heating permit; and a registered plumber shall apply
separately for a plumbing permit.
   (B)   The owner of a property proposing to construct a building thereon may
perform any or all of the construction work involved; provided that he or she
shall apply for the applicable permits for wiring, heating and plumbing, and
provided that he or she shall perform the work involved himself or herself.
   (C)   The work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be the direct
responsibility of the permit holder. No contractor shall assign any permit to
another contractor who is not properly licensed or registered under the
provisions of this code.
   (D)   The charge for all wiring, heating and plumbing permits is included in
the building permit fees set forth in §
92.022.
(Prior Code, § 7-27)  (Ord. 74-17, passed 9-9-1974; Ord. 87-6, passed 7-27-
1987)
§ 92.024  INSPECTIONS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Inspector/
Director of Planning and Development, shall make, or shall cause to be made,
inspections of the work being done as are necessary to ensure full compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and the terms of the permit.
   (B)   Fees for inspections and reinspections of work found to be incomplete
or not ready for inspection are subject to assessment as prescribed in this
code.
(Prior Code, § 7-28)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.025  INSPECTIONS; ASSISTANCE.
   The Chief of the Fire Department of the city, or his or her designated
representative, shall assist the Building Inspector/Director of Planning and
Development in the inspection of fire suppression, detection and alarm systems
and shall provide reports of the inspection to the Building Inspector/Director
of Planning and Development.
(Prior Code, § 7-29)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.026  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector/Director of
Planning and Development of the city, or his or her duly authorized
representatives, may enter at reasonable times any building, structure or
premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-30)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.027  STOP WORK ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Building Inspector/Director of Planning and Development may order the work
stopped by notice in writing, served on any persons engaged in doing or causing
the work to be done, and any persons shall forthwith stop the work until
authorized by the Building Inspector/Director of Planning and Development to
proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, § 7-31)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.028  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected,
altered or repaired after the adoption of Ordinance 88-2 (passed 3-28-1988)
shall be issued unless the building or structure was erected, altered or
repaired in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any building or structure unless a
full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
Building Inspector/Director of Planning and Development.
(Prior Code, § 7-32)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.029  WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practice in the trade.
(Prior Code, § 7-33)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.030  VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sublessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the city, or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-34)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)  Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.031  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   All persons shall have the right to appeal locally issued orders of
the Building Inspector/Director of Planning and Development first through the
Board of Zoning Appeals of the city, and then to the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission of the state.
   (B)   The same procedures shall apply to variances granted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals of the city which shall be appealable to the same state agency.
Both procedures for appeal shall be in accordance with the provisions of I.C.
22-13-2-7 and 4-21.5-3-7.
(Prior Code, § 7-35)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.032  REMEDIES; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   The Building Inspector/Director of Planning and Development shall in the
name of the city, bring actions in the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county
for mandatory and injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure
compliance with any order or orders made by the Building Inspector/Director of
Planning and Development, and any action for mandatory or injunctive relief may
be joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for elsewhere in §
92.999.
(Prior Code, § 7-36)  (Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
CONTRACTOR LICENSING AND REGISTRATION; GENERALLY
§ 92.045  LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to actively engage in the business of heating and
ventilating or electrical wiring in the city shall file in the office of the
City Clerk-Treasurer an application and a $50 application fee, this is a
nonrefundable fee, to take the examination giving the name and place of
business of individual, firm or corporation of which the applicant is a member.
The application shall state that the applicant is a master of his or her trade
and that he or she is willing to be governed in all respects by all rules and
regulations that have heretofore been or may hereafter be adopted by the city
pertaining to the above set out businesses.
 
Licenses                    Fee (effective 3-14-2011)
Electrical, HVAC contractor $50 (licensing is a yearly fee January to December)
Plumbing contractor         $50 (licensing is a yearly fee January to December)
 
(Prior Code, § 7-39)
§ 92.046  EXAMINATION; NOTICE OF RESULTS.
   (A)   Each applicant for the license required by §
92.045 shall, at the time of filing his or her application, agree to appear
before an examining board pertaining to his or her respective business,
composed as set out in this chapter, for examination of his or her
qualifications and experience in business; provided, that, in the event the
applicant is a firm or corporation, some member of the firm or officer of the
corporation shall appear before the examining board. After an examination,
which may be written, the applicant shall check with the Building Inspector’s
office the next day for the results of the examination. Passing grade is 75%.
The examining board will then send the passed test to the Common Council with
the recommendation whether to grant or deny the license.
   (B)   In the event an applicant fails an examination, he or she must wait 30
days before again making a new application to take the examination. If he or
she should fail the test again, he or she will need to wait six months to make
a new application for the examination. The new application shall be accompanied
by a new application fee.
(Prior Code, § 7-40)
§ 92.047  BOND, INSURANCE, REFRIGERANT TRANSITION AND RECOVERY CERTIFICATION
PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receiving the results of the examination, the applicant for the license
required by §
92.045 shall, if the recommendation of the examining board is to grant the
license, deposit with the City Clerk-Treasurer a bond in the sum of $10,000,
conditioned that the applicant will indemnify and save harmless the city from
all liability and damages caused by his or her negligence or carelessness in
the performance of his or her work at the trade in which the applicant is
licensed; and conditioned further that the applicant will pay fines that may be
imposed upon him or her for violation of any of the rules or regulations of
this code. The applicant shall also exhibit a certificate of a policy of
liability insurance to indemnify third parties for any damages they might
suffer as a result of his or her work. Heating and ventilation will also
furnish refrigerant and recovery certificate.
(Prior Code, § 7-41)
§ 92.048  ISSUANCE; FEE; RENEWAL.
   Upon approval of the bond, insurance policy and refrigerant transition and
recovery certificate and the granting of a license by the Common Council, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license authorizing the applicant for the license
required by §
92.045 of this chapter to operate and do business in the city in accordance
with his or her license, and for which the applicant shall pay to the Clerk-
Treasurer a fee of $30; provided, that the license may be renewed each
consecutive year thereafter by the applicant upon the payment of a fee of $30
and upon satisfactory compliance with the provisions of the code; provided
further, that if no complaints have been received against the applicant’s work
as set out in §
92.051 of the chapter, the applicant for a renewal license shall not be
required to appear before the examination board.
(Prior Code, § 7-42)
§ 92.049  REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR REGISTRATION.
   The Common Council shall have the power to revoke a license or registration
granted under this chapter upon complaint by the Director of Planning and
Development and proof that the applicant has failed to meet the minimum
requirements as set out in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-43)
§ 92.050  LICENSE TERM.
   No license required by §
92.045 of this chapter shall be granted for a period of longer than one year
and all licenses will expire on December 31 of the year in which they are
issued unless sooner revoked for cause as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-44)
§ 92.051  NONLICENSED CONTRACTORS.
   Any nonlicensed contractor shall be required to pass an examination to
receive a license from the city before doing work within the city, as outlined
in §
92.045 of this code. Further, any nonlicensed contractor shall further be
subject to the examination, bonding and insurance requirements as set forth is
this chapter prior to the commencement of work within the city. The Building
Inspector’s office of the city shall be responsible for the issuance of
guidelines and permits, as well as advising nonlicensed contractors of the
requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-45)
PLUMBING
§ 92.065  REGISTRATION OF PLUMBERS; REQUIRED.
   Any plumbing contractor desiring to actively engage in the business of
plumbing and hydronic heating in the city shall be licensed by the state and
register with the Clerk-Treasurer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-56)
§ 92.066  APPLICATION; FEE; BOND.
   Each plumbing contractor described in §
92.065 shall submit his or her application for registration accompanied by a
fee of $25, a performance bond of $10,000 and a copy of his or her state
plumbing contractor’s license to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 7-57)
§ 92.067  SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION TO BOARD OF REGISTRATION.
   Upon receipt of the application for registration pursuant to §
92.065, the Clerk-Treasurer shall submit the same to the Board of Registration.
(Prior Code, § 7-58)
§ 92.068  ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE.
   Upon determining that the application described in §
92.066 and the state license are in order, the Board of Registration shall,
within 24 hours, direct the City Clerk-Treasurer to issue an original
certificate of registration to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 7-59)
§ 92.069  CERTIFICATE TERM; RENEWAL.
   Each certificate of registration issued pursuant to §
92.068 shall be for a period of one year renewable annually at a fee of $25;
provided, however, any plumbing contractor previously licensed by the city
shall only be charged a fee of $25 on his or her original application for
registration.
(Prior Code, § 7-60)
§ 92.070  BOARD OF REGISTRATION.
   The Board of Registration for plumbing contractors shall consist of one
Council member, the Director of Planning and Development and one citizen member
familiar with the plumbing business.
(Prior Code, § 7-61)
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
§ 92.085  REGISTRATION; REQUIRED.
   Any contractor doing work inside the city limits requiring a building permit
must first register with the Planning and Zoning Office.
(Prior Code, § 7-62)
§ 92.086  APPLICATION; FEE; BOND.
   Each general contractor described in §
92.085 shall submit his or her application for registration accompanied by a
fee of $30 and a performance bond of $10,000 to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 7-63)
§ 92.087  ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE.
   Upon determining that the application described in §
92.086 and the state license are in order, the Board of Registration shall,
within 24 hours, direct the City Clerk-Treasurer to issue an original
certificate of registration to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 7-64)
§ 92.088  CERTIFICATE TERM; RENEWAL.
   Each certificate of registration issued pursuant to §
92.087 shall be for a period of one year renewable annually at a fee of $30;
provided, however, any plumbing contractor previously licensed by the city
shall only be charged a fee of $30 on his or her original application for
registration.
(Prior Code, § 7-65)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 92.115  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as covered by the State Building Code adopted by this chapter, it
shall be unlawful for any person, owning the same, to move or cause to be moved
any house, barn, shed or other building over the streets, alleys, bridges or
thoroughfares of the city until that person shall have first obtained from the
Common Council of the city, a permit for moving the house, barn, shed or other
building.
(Prior Code, § 7-5)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1925)
§ 92.116  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; ACCOMPANYING BOND.
   Before the Common Council shall grant any permit, as provided in §
92.115, the person applying for the permit shall file with the City Clerk-
Treasurer his or her application for the permit, in which he or she shall
particularly describe the route over which the house, barn, shed or other
building is to be moved, along with his or her bond in the sum of $5,000,
conditioned that the person shall indemnify and same harmless the city and all
persons from any and all damages, costs and expenses that may accrue by reason
of the moving of the house, barn, shed or other building. The bond shall be
signed by two resident freeholders of this county, or by any trust or bonding
company operating under the laws of the state. The bond shall be approved or
disapproved by the Common Council of the city, on the next meeting night of the
Common Council, either regular or special, after the filing of the petition and
the bond.
(Prior Code, § 7-6)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1925; Ord. 88-2, passed 3-28-1988)
§ 92.117  NOTICE TO MOVE WIRES; MOVING OF WIRES.
   Before any person owning the same shall move any house, barn, shed or other
building over the streets, alleys, bridges or thoroughfares of the city, he or
she shall give five days’ notice to any person having wires crossing the
streets, alleys, bridges or thoroughfares of the city and likely to be affected
by the moving of the house, barn, shed or other building, and upon receipt of
the notice any person having wires crossing the streets, alleys, bridges or
thoroughfares of the city and likely to be affected as aforesaid, shall move
the wires in a manner as to permit the moving of the house, barn, shed or other
building.
(Prior Code, § 7-7)  (Ord. passed 1-12-1925)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 92.130  UNSAFE BUILDING LAW ESTABLISHED.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the City
Unsafe Building Law, and by and through its Planning and Zoning Administration
Department (PZA Department), the City Executive is designated to enforce the
terms thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-81)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988; Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-24-
2013)
§ 92.131  STATE LAWS ADOPTED.
   I.C. 36-7-7-1 through 36-7-9-28, is hereby adopted by reference as the
Lebanon Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the city for the
inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by the
aforementioned law and the provisions of this subchapter. In the event the
provisions of this subchapter conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-
1 through 36-7-9-28, then the provisions of the state statute shall be
controlling.
(Prior Code, § 7-82)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988; Ord. 2010-01, passed 2-8-
2010)
§ 92.132  PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the city which are determined after
inspection by the Building Inspector to be unsafe, as defined in this
subchapter, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
(Prior Code, § 7-83)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988)
§ 92.133  ORDERING REPAIR OR REMOVAL OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   The Building Inspector, as chief administrative officer of the Department of
Planning and Development, or his or her designated representative, shall be
authorized to administer and proceed under the provisions of the law in
ordering the repair or removal of any buildings found to be unsafe as specified
therein or as specified hereinafter.
(Prior Code, § 7-84)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988)
§ 92.134  AUTHORITY.
   Wherever in the building regulations of the city or the City Unsafe Building
Law it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of, or subject
to, the direction of the Building Inspector, or any other officer of the
Building Inspector’s office, this shall be construed to give the officer only
the discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by
ordinance have been complied with; and no provisions shall be construed as
giving any officer discretionary powers as to what regulations or standing
shall be, power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance, or to
enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary, capricious or discretionary
manner.
(Prior Code, § 7-85)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988)
§ 92.135  DEFINITION OF UNSAFE BUILDING.
   The description of an unsafe building contained in the I.C. 36-7-9-4, is
hereby supplemented to provide minimal standards for building condition or
maintenance in the city by adding the following definition.
   UNSAFE BUILDING.  Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an unsafe
building, provided that the conditions or defects exist to the extent that
life, health, property or safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to an extent that the structural strength or
stability thereof is materially less than it was before the catastrophe and is
less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of similar structure,
purpose or location;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be capable
of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the working stresses
permitted for those buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof was wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially
less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar
new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting the building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been construed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to the building or structure provided by the building regulations of
this city, or of any law or ordinance of this state relating to the condition,
location or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any nonsupporting
part, member or portion less than 50% or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location;
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the County Health
Department or its designated representative to be unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation, or in a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Fire Chief of the
city or his or her designated representative to be a fire hazard; or
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute the building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Prior Code, § 7-86)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988)
§ 92.136  DEFINITION OF SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.
   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-
2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(Prior Code, § 7-87)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988)
§ 92.137  WORKMANSHIP; RULES AND STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the building laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall be considered standard
and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this subchapter or orders
issued pursuant to this subchapter by the Building Inspector of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-88)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988)
§ 92.138  UNSAFE BUILDING FUND ESTABLISHED.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
city in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Prior Code, § 7-89)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988)
§ 92.139  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; VIOLATIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or any order issued by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 7-90)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988)  Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.140  HEARING AUTHORITY.
   For the purpose of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., the hearing authority, as required
by this subchapter and the state statutes governing the same, shall be that
person or persons as designated by the city executive.
(Prior Code, § 7-91)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988)
§ 92.141  INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AND THE LIKE; RECOVERY OF JUDGEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the city is required to file ordinance violation charges
or is required to seek injunctive or other relief before any court, as herein
specified, then, and in that event, upon any determination in favor of the
city, the city shall be further entitled to recover and have judgment against
any person, firm or corporation, or other entity violating this subchapter for
the city’s reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in prosecuting any of the
actions set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-92)  (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988)
§ 92.142  BOND.
   (A)   Pursuant to the establishment of the unsafe building subchapter,
Ordinance 88-1, the City Council, the designated hearing authority, pursuant to
recommendation by the City Plan Commission, hereby establishes the bond under
the unsafe building subchapter as follows.
   (B)   A maximum bond may be established by the hearing authority which shall
be no greater than the amount of $25,000. The amount of the bond to be
established by the hearing authority under the unsafe building subchapter shall
be in relation to, and in proportion to, the cost of the amount of work which
has been ordered pursuant to those actions authorized by ordinance and state
law. In the event the person, firm, corporation or other entity, which is
ordered to comply with the ordered action under the unsafe building ordinance,
disagrees with the bond established by the hearing authority, then, in the
event, the affected party shall obtain two independent estimates of repair
cost, removal or other action as has been ordered under the unsafe building
subchapter, from recognized contractors, or their equivalent, at their own
expense, which shall be submitted to the hearing authority (Common Council)
prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the body for further
consideration and/or reevaluation of the bond ordered set under the unsafe
building subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-93)  (Ord. 88-3, passed 4-25-1988)
CONSTRUCTION
§ 92.150  CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Dust control. Property owners, operators or contractors shall provide
control for on-site dust or any other airborne materials from operations
consisting of, but not limited to, construction, drilling, earth moving,
excavating or demolition such that materials remain on the job site. In
particular, disturbed areas shall have water applied at least once per day
depending on atmospheric conditions.
   (B)   Solid waste. Solid waste related to construction or demolition shall
be placed into suitable dumpsters, containers or other approved disposable
methods on a daily basis. Dumpsters or other containers shall not be overfilled
and shall be removed from the premises within ten days of being filled to
capacity. A dumpster shall be considered overfilled if there is more waste
deposited into the dumpster than said dumpster was designed to hold. The
construction site shall be maintained free from excessive accumulations of
junk, debris, lumber, and/or trash as defined under §
96.02.
   (C)   Grading and drainage. All construction sites shall be graded and
maintained in such a way as to prevent the introduction of eroded soil onto
other properties. All required erosion control measures per City of Lebanon
Standards and/or the approved building permit shall be maintained throughout
the entirety of the construction process and any sediment that may form behind
such structures shall be inspected for and removed on at least a weekly basis.
   (D)   Weeds. Construction sites shall be maintained free of all noxious
weeds and other plant growth in excess of eight inches. Property owners shall
be subject to the provisions under §
96.01.
   (E)   Portable toilets. If permanent toilet facilities are not available on
the premises, then a minimum of one portable toilet per construction site shall
be provided for the use of construction workers.
(Ord. 2017-09, passed 8-14-2017)  Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
of the code or fail to comply therewith or with any of the requirements
thereof; or who shall build, reconstruct or structurally alter any building in
violation of any detailed statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder;
or who shall engage in the business of either plumbing, heating and ventilating
or electrical wiring in the city, without first having procured the license
required for his or her particular business and having given bond and proof of
liability insurance as provided in §§
92.047 and
92.066 of this chapter, shall for each and every violation or noncompliance, be
guilty of an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $10, and not more than $100, and each day that the violation or
noncompliance shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person who shall initiate construction prior to obtaining a
building permit or a certificate of occupancy, or any other permit required,
shall pay twice the amount of the filing fee set forth herein.
      (3)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, realtor, CU agency or other
person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains the violation may
each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-12)
   (B)   Unsafe buildings.  Any person violating the provisions of §§
92.130 through
92.142 or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall commit an ordinance violation, or the equivalent
of a class C infraction as defined in I.C. 36-7-9-28, for each day the
violation continues. For each unsafe building condition violation, the person,
firm or corporation, as defined herein, may be fined up to a maximum of $500
for each violation of §§
92.130 through
92.142.
(Prior Code, § 7-90)
(Ord. 74-17, passed 9-8-1974; Ord. 88-1, passed 3-14-1988; Ord. 88-2, passed 3-
28-1988)
CHAPTER 93:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
93.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
93.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
93.10   Exemptions
   
93.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 93.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 93.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04 through
93.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in this section as FAMILIAL STATUS (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9).
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code [910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14)]; nor does the term HANDICAP
include an individual solely because that individual is a transvestite [910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14)].
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant. (I.C.
22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 93.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
93.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and §
93.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 93.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §
93.03(B) and §
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination.
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13,1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               A.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               B.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               C.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and the American National Standard for Buildings and
Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (A)(8)(c)3.C.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 93.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 93.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 93.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
93.03 through
93.06.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 93.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 93.09  EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 93.10  EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 93.11  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the city, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Official of the city shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) of this section to said Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the city, or the Chief Elected
Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2014-07, passed 4-14-2014)
CHAPTER 94:  FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Title
   
94.002   Purpose
   
94.003   Applicability
   
94.004   Conflicting provisions
   
94.005   Minimum standards
   
94.006   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
94.020   Fire Prevention Division
   
94.021   Enforcement authority
   
94.022   Duty to correct violations
   
94.023   Appeal from orders
   
94.024   Variances
   
94.025   Liability for damage
   
94.026   Inspection fees
   
94.027   False reporting
Inspections and Investigations
   
94.040   Right to enter buildings
   
94.041   Inspections
   
94.042   Investigations
   
94.043   Records and reports
Emergency Operations
   
94.055   Authority at fire and emergencies
   
94.056   Emergency lines and limits
Costs/Fee Structure
   
94.070   Right to recover costs/fee structure
Fire Service Features
   
94.085   Fire Department access
   
94.086   Fire Department access roads for Class 1 and 2 structures
   
94.087   Addressing
   
94.088   Use and placement of key boxes
   
94.089   Required water supply for fire protection
   
94.090   Fire hydrants
   
94.091   Hydrant locations
   
94.092   Hydrant specifications
   
94.093   Testing of private hydrants
   
94.094   Dead end water mains
Commercial and Residential Buildings Under Construction
   
94.105   Water supply
   
94.106   Access roads for Class 1 and 2 structures
Fire Protection Systems
   
94.120   Construction documents
   
94.121   Fire Department connections
   
94.122   Fire alarm/detection systems, fire reporting and false alarms
Fire Protection in Public Lots
   
94.135   Fire protection in motor vehicle sale and storage lots and portable
storage lots
General Precautions Against Fire
   
94.150   Open burning prohibited
   
94.151   Prior approval for certain fires required
   
94.152   Exemptions
   
94.153   Liability
   
94.154   Pyrotechnics and indoor fireworks prohibited
Hazardous Materials
   
94.165   Hazardous materials information vault
   
94.166   Material safety data sheets (MSDS)
   
94.167   Underground storage tanks; notification
 
   
94.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001  TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the Fire Prevention Code of the city, may be cited as such, and will
be referred to herein as the “Fire Code” or the “Code,” upon approval by the
City Council, as set out in Ordinance 2009-10 shall be effective on November
30, 2009. This code shall include in its entirety the most recent edition of
the Fire and Building Code adopted by the state with state amendments.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.002  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe regulations consistent with
nationally recognized standards for the protection of life, environment and
property from the hazards of fire and explosion; from the hazards arising from
the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, from conditions
hazardous to life or property in the use or occupancy of new or existing
buildings and premises, and to establish appropriate administrative procedures
for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.003  APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be supplemental to the current Indiana
Fire Code (IFC), as adopted by the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to maintenance of fire
prevention and life safety features as herein described. The provisions of this
chapter shall apply to existing conditions as well as to the conditions arising
after the adoption thereof. Buildings, systems, uses, processes and equipment
legally in existence on the effective date of this section shall be permitted
to continue so long as they are maintained in a condition that is equivalent to
the quality and fire resistive characteristics that existed when the building
was constructed, altered, added to or repaired.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.004  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   When any provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any
building, zoning, safety, health or other applicable law or ordinance of the
city existing on the effective date of this code or hereafter adopted, the
provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of the safety and welfare of the public shall prevail.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.005  MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   All fire safety rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in 675 I.A.C. 22 and the International Fire Code are
hereby incorporated in this chapter, and shall include later amendments to that
article as the same are published in the Indiana Register or the Indiana
Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein. A copy of these
standards shall be available in the Fire Prevention Division of the City Fire
Department for inquiry and review by the members of the public during normal
business hours.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.006  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION.  When used throughout this chapter shall mean
the City Fire Department.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL.  The officer or other designated authority of the
jurisdiction charged with the administration and enforcement of the Indiana
Building Code and City Building Code (City Building Inspector’s Office).
   CIVIL VIOLATION.  The erection, alteration, enlargement, maintenance or use
of any building, structure or land in violation of any provision of the zoning
ordinance, the subdivision control ordinance, the sign ordinance, the weed
ordinance, the Fire Prevention Code, any ordinance of the city and the building
codes of the town applicable to the building, structure or land in the zone in
which it is located as determined by the Building Inspector’s Office.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE.  Buildings and structures as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-4. A
building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or otherwise used
in any part by:
      (1)   The public;
      (2)   Three or more tenants; and
      (3)   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE.  Buildings and structures as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-5. A
building or structure that is intended to contain or contains only one dwelling
unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or structure is
regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
   COMBUSTIBLE.  Materials such as paper, fiber liquids, vegetable matter or
any other material, which is readily ignitable and free burning.
   DECORATIVE MATERIALS.  Materials such as curtains, draperies, streamers and
surface covering applied over building interior finishes for decorative,
acoustical or other effect, and also cloth, cotton batting, straw, vines,
leaves, trees and moss used for decorative effect. They do not include floor
coverings, ordinary window shades or materials one twenty-eighth inches or less
in thickness applied directly to a non-combustible backing.
   EXTENSION CORD and PORTABLE FLEXIBLE CORD.  A flexible cord of any length,
which is one male connector on one end, and one or more female connectors on
the other, and no built in over current protection.
   FIRE APPARATUS.  Vehicles such as fire pumpers, aerial ladder trucks,
elevated platforms, rescue squad cars or other firefighting or rescue
equipment.
   FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD.  A road that provides fire apparatus access from
a fire station to a facility, building or portion thereof. This is a general
term inclusive of all other terms such as fire lane, public street, private
street, parking lot lane and access roadway.
   FIRE APPLIANCE.  Equipment provided or installed for use in the event of an
emergency.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT INLET CONNECTION (FDC).  A connection through which the Fire
Department can pump water into a standpipe and/or sprinkler system.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT.  The Lebanon Fire Department.
   FIRE HAZARD.  Anything or act which increases or may increase the
possibility or menace of fire to a greater degree than that customarily
recognized as normal by the City Fire Department; or which may obstruct, delay
or hinder or interfere with the operations of the Fire Department or the egress
of occupants in the event of fire.
   FIRE.  The combustion of material other than deliberate combustion for
cooking, heating, recreation, incineration or purposes incidental to normal
operation of a property.
   FIRE MARSHAL.  The administrative head of the City Fire Department or his or
her designee appointed pursuant to §
94.020.
   FIRE PREVENTION DIVISION.  The Fire Prevention Division established by this
chapter for the City Fire Department.
   FPBSC.  The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state, as
established by I.C. 22-12-2-1.
   GAR.  General Administrative Rules (675 I.A.C. 12) of the State Fire
Prevention and Building and Safety Commission.
   GRACE PERIOD EXTENSION.  Of time granted for correction, termination or
cessation of a civil violation of this chapter. EXTENSION OF TIME, as defined
herein, shall be granted by the City Fire Marshal.
   HAZARDOUS CONDITION.  The presence of a structural condition, equipment,
utility connection, materials that constitutes or poses a recognized threat of
fire or other injury to persons or property.
   INSPECTION.  A visual inspection of a building, system, design or
installation, to verify that it meets the standards of the Fire Code, and/or is
in acceptable operating condition and free of defects.
   NFPA.  The National Fire Protection Association, which publishes the volumes
of the National Fire Codes.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION.  Notice issued by the Department.
   PERMITTED FIRES.  Fires used for recreation or cooking, such as bonfires,
campfires or barbecues.
   PERSON.  Person, firm, corporation, partnership, association and bodies
political and corporate.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.  The existence of dry or drying weeds, rubbish and waste
material on property and or premises which is dangerous and injurious to that
or neighboring property, land or premises and which is detrimental to the
welfare of occupants or residents of the vicinity.
   REPAIR.  The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building
for the purpose of its maintenance.
   REPEATED CIVIL VIOLATION.  A recurring violation at the same location or a
similar violation at a different location by the same responsible party.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.  Any person, firm or corporation who (which) uses
property in violation of this chapter or knowingly permits another person, firm
or corporation to do so.
   TESTING.  A functional test of all components to verify proper operation of
the system, design, installation or use.
   WATER COMPANY.  The entity, its successors and assigns, which supplies water
service to the city.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.020  FIRE PREVENTION DIVISION.
   A Fire Prevention Division is hereby established within the City Fire
Department under the direction of the Fire Chief. The function of this Division
shall be to assist the Fire Chief in the administration of the City Fire Code
and the State Fire Code. The Chief may assign personnel to the Division to
administer and enforce the provisions of this code. The Fire Prevention
Division shall be under the supervision of the City Fire Marshal appointed by
the City Fire Chief pursuant to the applicable personnel rules of the City Fire
Department.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.021  ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the City Fire Marshal or his or
her authorized representative to enforce the provisions of this code. It shall
be the responsibility of the City Fire Department to enforce all provisions of
this chapter within the city. This enforcement shall include, but is not
limited to:
   (A)   The prevention of fires;
   (B)   The handling, storage, sale and use of flammable liquids, explosives
and combustible and hazardous materials;
   (C)   The adequacy of means of egress from all places in which numbers of
people live, work or congregate from time to time for any purpose;
   (D)   The location, installation and maintenance of smoke alarms, fire alarm
systems and fire suppression systems; and/or
   (E)   The investigation of the origins, causes and circumstances of fires,
and when it is determined that conduct or conditions of the property:
      (1)   Present a clear and immediate hazard of death or serious bodily
injury to any person;
      (2)   Is prohibited without a permit, registration, certification,
release authorization, variance, exemption or other license required under I.C.
22-14 or another statute administered by the State Department of Fire and
Building Services or the City Building Inspector’s Office and the license has
not been issued;
      (3)   Will conceal a violation of law; or
      (4)   Will interfere with the City Fire Marshal or his or her authorized
representative to carry outs his or her duties and responsibilities under this
section.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.022  DUTY TO CORRECT VIOLATIONS.
   The owner or person in control of any premises or building upon which a
violation or hazard exists shall:
   (A)   Cease any prohibited activity or use and correct the violation;
   (B)   Protect persons and property from the hazards of the violation and
correct the violation; or
   (C)   Require persons to leave the area that is affected by a violation and
prohibit persons from entering the area until the violation is corrected.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.023  APPEAL FROM ORDERS.
   An owner or occupant who remains aggrieved by the decision issued pursuant
to this chapter and the matter involves a rule of the State Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission may appeal to the Commission as set forth by I.C.
36-8-17. A copy of the appeal will be made available to the City Fire
Department Inspection Division.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.024  VARIANCES.
   (A)   An owner or occupant requesting a variance from state adopted fire and
building laws as set forth by I.C. 22-13-2-11 shall apply for such with the
State Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission in accordance with 675
I.A.C. 12-5. A copy of the variance request will be made available to the City
Fire Department Inspection Division.
   (B)   An owner or occupant requesting a variance from the provisions of this
chapter that are not part of the state adopted fire and building laws as set
forth by I.C. 22-13-2-11 shall apply in writing to the City Fire Marshal. The
granting of a variance shall be considered only upon the written application of
the owner of the property, stating that:
      (1)   Practical difficulties have been encountered in the implementation
of specific requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   Compliance with specific requirements of this chapter will cause
unnecessary hardship to the owner; and
      (3)   The owner desires to take advantage of new methods or equipment,
which are recognized as adequate for the purpose for which they are to be
substituted.
   (C)   A variance may be granted only if the State Fire Marshal determines in
writing that:
      (1)   The requested use or modification will conform with fundamental
requirements for safety; and
      (2)   The granting of the variance does not increase the risk of fire or
danger to the public. A copy of any variance granted shall be retained by the
Division.
   (D)   A variance shall be enforced in the same manner as an order issued
under § 08.04.09.
   (E)   Whenever the City Fire Department learns that an owner of the property
or business, whichever is pertinent, is in violation of the terms of a variance
issued pursuant to this section, the City Fire Marshal or his or her designee
may order compliance as provided in § 92.04.10 with the variance or with this
code.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.025  LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   This code shall not be construed to hold the public entity, any of its
employees or any of its lawful agents responsible for any damage to persons or
property by reason of the inspection or re-inspection, authorization herein
provided or by reason of the approval or disapproval of any equipment or
process authorized herein or for any action in connection with the control of
extinguishment of any fire or in connection with any other official duties.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.026  INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   All code violations will be documented on a fire inspection report
form. Each business will be given 30 days to correct code violations. Certain
code violations may be given less time to correct due to their severity, or the
danger to persons or property posed by the violation. A compliance form will
also be left with each inspection report form. When the code violations are
corrected, the business shall mail or otherwise deliver the compliance form to
the City Fire Department Fire Prevention Division located at 201 East Main,
Lebanon, Indiana. If, after the specified time a compliance form is not
received, a re-inspection shall be made of the business to determined code
compliance. A re-inspection fee for each re-inspection shall be charged as
indicated below.
 
First re-inspection                     $75
Second re-inspection                    $150
Third and all subsequent re-inspections $500
 
   (B)   All monies collected from this section will be placed in the City Fire
Department’s non-reverting fund as set forth in Ordinance 09-02.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.027  FALSE REPORTING.
   It is a violation of this chapter for a person, firm or corporation to
willfully and knowingly sign a compliance card attesting that a code violation
has been corrected when the person, firm or corporation has actual knowledge
that the code violation has not been corrected or has been disguised or covered
without properly mitigating the hazard(s). All violations under this section
shall be subject to the civil penalty provisions of §
94.999. Additionally, any person who knowingly violates this provision may be
subject to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)  Penalty, see §
94.999
INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS
§ 94.040  RIGHT TO ENTER BUILDINGS.
   Authorized personnel of the City Fire Department may, at all reasonable
hours, enter any structure (except one- and two-family dwellings) within the
city for the purpose of conducting inspections or investigations pursuant to
this chapter. The right to enter shall extend to new structures under
construction as well as to existing structures being renovated or remodeled. An
inspector or investigator may be required by the owner or occupant to produce
satisfactory proof of authority or identity. If an inspector or investigator is
denied access, the City Fire Marshal may apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for an order allowing inspection.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.041  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Fire Department shall perform inspections under the
administrative supervision of the Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17. The
City Fire Department may as often as may be reasonably necessary:
      (1)   Inspect every place and public way, except the interiors of one-
and two-family dwellings; and
      (2)   Inspect, upon receipt of a complaint, any building or premises.
   (B)   In addition, the City Fire Department must be notified of any new
business moving into an existing building for purpose of updating emergency
contact numbers and inspections.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.042  INVESTIGATIONS.
   The City Fire Department shall perform fire investigations under the
administrative supervision of the Fire Chief pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17. The City
Fire Chief or his or her designee is authorized to investigate the origin,
cause and circumstances of unauthorized releases of hazardous materials.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.043  RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The City Fire Department shall keep a record of all incidents and the facts
concerning them. These reports shall be prepared into an annual summary and
submitted to the City Fire Chief. The City Fire Department shall maintain files
containing reports of all properties that have been inspected, all orders
issued, of all complaints and fires investigated, and the location of all
buildings containing hazardous occupancies.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS
§ 94.055  AUTHORITY AT FIRE AND EMERGENCIES.
   The City Fire Chief or his or her designated representative at any fire,
explosion or other emergency which poses imminent threat to life, environment
or property shall have the authority to direct operations as may be necessary
to control, extinguish, perform special operations and investigate the
existence of hazardous conditions in connection with the fire, explosion or
other emergency, or to take other action reasonably necessary to contain,
mitigate or eliminate the emergency.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.056  EMERGENCY LINES AND LIMITS.
   (A)   The City Fire Chief or his or her designee, or any state, county or
city law enforcement officer may establish emergency lines and limits and
barricade or guard from the general public those emergency lines and limits.
   (B)   The City Fire Chief or his or her designee or any law enforcement
officer may create an area in which only firefighters, law enforcement and
those having a direct interest in any property threatened by the fire,
explosion or other emergency, or other people or agencies at the discretion of
the incident commander shall be admitted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to cross emergency
lines or limits.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)  Penalty, see §
94.999
COSTS/FEE STRUCTURE
§ 94.070  RIGHT TO RECOVER COSTS/FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Recovering costs.  The City Fire Department and the city has
established a non-reverting fund for the purpose of recovering costs dealing
with fire protection within the corporate city limits for Fire Department
operations and from others involved within City Fire Department operations
outside of the corporate city limits as well. See Ordinance 09-02.
   (B)   Schedule of fees by call type for collection.
      (1)   If the City Fire Department responds to any call for service,
assistance or emergency, the following fees shall be assessed.
Service, Assistance or Emergency Fee
Service, Assistance or Emergency        Fee
Apartment fire limited to 1 unit        $500
Apartment fire more than 1 unit         $2,000
Commercial structure less than 4 hours  $2,500
time*
Commercial structure more than 4 hours  $5,000
time*
Environmental calls when not hazardous  $250
materials
*    An incident lasting over one hour will be charged by the amount of
equipment and manpower on scene at a rate established by the State Fire
Marshal under allowable hazardous materials reimbursement; this call type is
also flexible at the discretion of the Chief
Grass/field fire (with property damage) $250
Large rubbish/trash fire (no state
permit)
   < 2hours                          $500
   2 to 4hours                       $1,000
   4 hours +                         $1,500 + 500/hour after
Motor vehicle accidents (No power lines $250 + hazmat expense
down)
Passenger car/truck/ van                $250 + hazmat expense
Power lines down (due to human factor)  $250
Residence fire/garage fire              $500
Semi-tractor/trailer/bus                $500 + hazmat expense (depending on
                                        cargo and duration)
Special equipment (will relate to       OIC’s discretion
closest scheduled vehicle type)
Train fire                              $1,000 + hazmat expense
   Non-hazmat rate is same as State Fire Marshal hazmat reimbursement rates
 
      (2)   Apartment buildings over five units are considered commercial
buildings under this policy for purposes of billing.
      (3)   Time spent includes the actual emergency, returning to service time
and any time spent on the investigation/mitigation of the emergency. Commercial
structure fire expense may also increase due to the need of using consumables
such as hazardous materials containment and clean up items as well as
structural firefighting foam and other materials not listed here but deemed
consumable and necessary for the successful completion of the emergency
situation. This list is not all inclusive and may change from time to time.
There will be a $10 charge for special requests involving providing fire/EMS
run records.
      (4)   Fires deemed as arson will result in excess fees of $25 hour/per
man due to the amount of time involved with investigations, interviewing and
travel.
   (C)   Withholding fees.  The City Fire Department reserves the right to
withhold fire service fees when deemed necessary by the Fire Chief or his or
her designee.
   (D)   Heavy equipment.  Mitigating a hazardous situation sometimes entails
the need for heavy equipment. This professional fee will be forwarded to the
individual, business or insurance company responsible for the property or
mobile property.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
FIRE SERVICE FEATURES
§ 94.085  FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS.
   A minimum of two means of vehicular access shall be provided for:
   (A)   Any residential subdivision with 50 or more single- or two-family
residential lots;
   (B)   Any development having one or more commercial, multifamily, or
industrial structure, three stories or greater in height; or
   (C)   Any development having three or more commercial, multifamily, or
industrial structures of any height.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.086  FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS ROADS FOR CLASS 1 AND 2 STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Construction.  Fire Department or emergency access roads shall be
constructed to city standards and specifications, and shall be subject to
approval by the Fire Chief or his or her designee.
   (B)   Dimensions.  Fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed
width of not less than 20 feet (6,096 mm) and an unobstructed vertical
clearance of not less than 13 feet, six inches (4,115 mm).
   (C)   Emergency lanes.  Emergency lanes so marked as fire lanes whether on
public property or private property will be free of private vehicles except as
allowed by the city police or the City Fire Department. Violation of this law
will be enforced by the city police as a parking violation with the appropriate
fine schedule. All emergency vehicles where fire, police, EMS or other
emergency agencies are exempt from this rule as provided for by state law.
   (D)   Surface.  Fire apparatus access roads shall be designed and
constructed to support the imposed live loads of the heaviest piece of fire
apparatus available to the servicing Fire Department and shall be provided with
an all-weather surface so as to provide all-weather driving capabilities.
   (E)   Turning radius.  The turning radius of a fire apparatus access road
shall be at least equal to the minimum required radius for the fire apparatus.
These roads shall be designed and constructed to permit turning of the longest
piece of fire apparatus available to the City Fire Department.
   (F)   Dead ends.  Dead-end fire apparatus access roads in excess of 150 feet
in length shall be designed and constructed so as to allow the turning around
of the longest piece of fire apparatus available to the City Fire Department.
   (G)   Bridges.  When a bridge is required to be used as part of a fire
apparatus access road, it shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with nationally recognized standards. The bridge shall be designed constructed
and maintained for a live load sufficient to carry the imposed loads of fire
apparatus. Vehicle load limits shall be posted at both entrances to bridges.
   (H)   Grade.  The gradient for a fire apparatus access road shall not exceed
the maximum that the apparatus available to the City Fire Department can
accommodate.
   (H)   Obstruction and control of fire apparatus access.  The required width
of a fire apparatus access road shall not be obstructed in any manner,
including parking of vehicles. Entrances to roads, trails or other access ways
which have been closed with gates and barriers in accordance with division (I)
below shall not be obstructed by parked vehicles. Additionally, any person
parking in or otherwise obstructing a duly marked fire lane so dedicated shall
be subject to the same penalties provided for those parking in violation on
public streets.
   (I)   Automatic gates.  When a property is accessed through a gate or cross
arm by means of a key or swipe card, it shall be equipped with a key switch
manufactured by the Knox Company. The switch will be keyed to the City Fire
Department Knox key. The location to be installed will be determined by the
City Fire Marshal or his or her designee. This section shall apply to both
Class 1 structures and Class 2 structures.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.087  ADDRESSING.
   (A)   Generally.  This section is to provide requirements to clearly
identify and mark proper addresses on building located in the city. This
section applies to existing buildings and new buildings, including buildings
under construction.
   (B)   Requirements.  Approved numbers or addresses on a contrasting
background shall be placed above the doorway or in a position as to be plainly
visible and legible from either direction of approach from the street or road
fronting the property. The minimum size dimensions of the numbers shall be as
specified in Table 1 below. Where a building or buildings are set back from the
street or road fronting the property and where addresses may not be clearly
identifiable due to distance from the street or roadway or to visual
obstructions such as landscaping or architectural features, address or number
posting shall be required both at the street driveway serving those buildings
and on the buildings. Individual condominiums, commercial suites and apartments
shall have numbers or letters installed in accordance with the scope of this
policy and Table 1. In addition, minimum six-inch high numbers must be used to
indicate apartment range numbers. On individual dwellings, a minimum four-inch
high number must be used. No cursive numbering systems are allowed.
 
Table 1
Occupancy                 Number Height
Commercial/industrial     6 to 12 inches
Multiple unit residential 6 to 12 inches
Single-family and duplex  4 inches
 
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.088  USE AND PLACEMENT OF KEY BOXES.
   (A)   Installation.  Any commercial building built after May 15, 1991 that
is protected by an automatic alarm system and/or sprinkler system, and access
to, or within a structure, or an area on that property is unduly difficult
because of secured openings, and where immediate access is necessary for
lifesaving or firefighting purposes, the City Fire Official may require a key
box to be installed in an approved location. This request will be made in
writing on City Fire Department letterhead and hand delivered to the owner of
the business of whom the request is being made. If the owner of the business
refuses to install a City Fire Department approved key box for entry to his or
her establishment he or she must acknowledge the refusal in writing to the City
Fire Department Code Enforcement Division. In this case the City Fire
Department and its officers are not responsible for any damage caused to the
structure and/or contents if entry into the structure is deemed necessary by
members of the City Fire Department. Any new structures that were constructed
after May 15, 2003 are required by the City Fire Department to have an approved
key box installed in an approved location.
   (B)   Contents.  The key box shall contain:
      (1)   Keys to locked points of ingress whether on the interior or
exterior of the buildings;
      (2)   Keys to locked mechanical equipment rooms;
      (3)   Keys to locked electrical rooms;
      (4)   Keys to elevator controls;
      (5)   Keys to other areas as directed by the fire official;
      (6)   Keys to post indicator valves controlling the water supply for fire
sprinkler systems; and
      (7)   Fire alarm control panels.
   (C)   Alert decals.  Alert decals, approved by the City Fire Chief, to alert
fire companies to the presence of security features covered by this chapter,
shall be displayed on any outside doors or windows designated by the fire
official. In the case of residential occupancies when residents use oxygen, the
appropriate warning decals should be prominently displayed to indicate oxygen
usage.
   (D)   Compliance; voluntary compliance.  This section is intended to apply
to any new commercial construction within the city. All existing buildings
built prior to May 15, 1991 are requested to voluntarily comply with this
section and, to that end, the Fire Marshal of the city is instructed to meet
with all existing commercial structure owners or occupants for the purpose of
informing them of the public health, safety and welfare benefits of the
establishment of a key box on their premises. Notwithstanding this provision,
any existing building, which is remodeled or structurally altered in any way
hereafter, shall comply with the terms and provisions of this section.
   (E)   Security padlocks.  When a property is protected by a locked fence or
gate and where immediate access to the property is necessary for life saving or
firefighting purposes, the City Fire Marshal may require a security padlock to
be installed at a location approved by the Fire Marshal. The padlock shall be
manufactured by the Knox Company and keyed to the City Fire Department Knox
key.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.089  REQUIRED WATER SUPPLY FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   All Class 1 structures or portions of Class 1 structures hereafter
constructed shall be provided with a water supply capable of providing the
required fire flow for firefighting purposes for a minimum period of two hours.
In setting the requirements for fire flow, the City Fire Marshal may use the
IFC (675 I.A.C. 22), Appendix B as a guide.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.090  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All private hydrants and water mains shall be installed and maintained as
set forth in the 2002 edition of NFPA Standard #24. The City Fire Marshal in
determining location and spacing of hydrants may use the 2003 IFC (675 I.A.C.
22) Appendix C as a guide.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.091  HYDRANT LOCATIONS.
   The proposed location of private fire hydrants to supply the required fire
flow shall be approved by the City Fire Department prior to construction of any
Class 1 structures or any addition to a Class 1 structure. One fire hydrant
shall be installed within 100 feet of any Fire Department connection that
serves a standpipe and/or sprinkler system or as required by the City Fire
Chief or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.092  HYDRANT SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever the provisions of this chapter require the installation of a fire
hydrant, whether on public or private property, the hydrant shall meet the
following specifications.
   (A)   It (hydrant) must meet all city utility specifications.
   (B)   It shall be constructed with 2 two and one-half inch hose nozzles.
   (C)   It shall be equipped with 1 five-inch Storz connection.
   (D)   It shall be constructed to be opened by turning clockwise a national
standard pentagon-operating nut.
   (E)   All privately owned hydrants shall be painted red with top color
indicating the water main size, i.e.:
 
Red    4 inch main
Orange 6 inch main
White  8 inch main
Green  10 inch main
Blue   12 inch and above main
 
   (F)   No private citizen will be allowed to otherwise paint or alter a
hydrant in any way and hydrants must be kept clear from obstructions of any
kind for a distance of three feet.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.093  TESTING OF PRIVATE HYDRANTS.
   Private hydrants shall be inspected and tested on an annual basis by a
testing company to verify the flow and proper operation. The owner will
maintain a copy of the test certification on the premises and send copies to
the City Fire Department. All hydrants shall be maintained in proper working
order. Maintenance to be performed by the testing company should consist of
greasing outlets, greasing the stem and flow testing the hydrant.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.094  DEAD END WATER MAINS.
   Six inch or smaller dead end mains are prohibited in commercial and
industrial development after the effective date of this chapter. All other dead
end mains shall be capable of supplying the required fire flow, and shall meet
IWC and /or NFPA 24 requirements and be approved. Buildings having a required
fire flow of 3,500 gpm or more shall have hydrants served by a main that loops
the building or complex of buildings and reconnects back into a distribution
supply main in a separate location when possible as determined by the City Fire
Marshal or his or her designee and a representative of the city utilities.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
§ 94.105  WATER SUPPLY.
   A water source approved by the Fire Marshal or his or her designee that is
capable of supplying the required fire flow shall be made available prior to
allowing combustible material to accumulate at the job site. Fire hydrants
shall be located within 500 feet of the structure under construction. Fire
hydrants shall be maintained clear and accessible for fire protection during
all phases of construction. Water for construction purposes taken from hydrants
shall in no way impede the Fire Departments use of the hydrants in emergencies.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.106  ACCESS ROADS FOR CLASS 1 AND 2 STRUCTURES.
   Access for use of heavy firefighting apparatus shall be provided to the
immediate job site at the start of construction or the accumulation of
combustibles, whichever occurs first. All temporary Fire Department access,
where required, shall be maintained until all construction is completed.
Arrangements shall be made to assure immediate and unimpeded Fire Department
access to the site when called.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
§ 94.120  CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.
   In the event a set of plans and specifications for fire protection systems,
including fire alarm systems, automatic sprinkler systems, standpipe systems
and other special types of fire extinguishing or detecting systems and
appurtenances thereto is created, then the documents shall be submitted to the
City Fire Department for information purposes.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.121  FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Location; specifications.  The location of Fire Department connections
shall be approved by the Fire Marshal or his or her designee. Fire Department
connections shall be installed where required by and in accordance with NFPA
13, Installation of Sprinkler Systems, 1999 Edition, 675 I.A.C. 13-1-8 and NFPA
14, Installation of Standpipe Hose Systems, 2000 Edition, 675 I.A.C. 13-1-9.
Additionally, Fire Department connection specifications shall comply with the
following:
      (1)   Fire Department hose connections shall be freestanding and remote
from the building, being a distance of at least one and one-half times the
height of the building or structure;
      (2)   The connection shall be a five-inch Storz type connection with 45
degree turndown;
      (3)   The Fire Department connection shall be located to the curb cut of
the main entrance of the project site or building it serves. The connection
shall be arranged to face the street, driveway or fire access route. This
location shall be placed in an area that will not interfere with access to the
building when hoses are laid from the closest fire hydrant to the Fire
Department connection;
      (4)   The Storz connection shall be arranged so that the connection is
between 30 inches and 36 inches above the finished grade, sidewalk or pit box
top or lid at the location of the connection. The Storz connection itself will
not be painted. All other piping feeding the Storz connection will be painted
red;
      (5)   The Fire Department hose connection shall be located not more than
100 feet from the nearest fire hydrant;
      (6)   Where the Fire Department connection is subject to vehicular
damage, the connection shall be protected as follows:
         (a)   Protective post(s) shall be three inches in diameter schedule 40
or better steel post set in 36 inches of concrete. The inside of the post shall
also be filled with concrete;
         (b)   Post(s) shall be located no closer than 36 inches from the Fire
Department connection and shall not interfere with the operation of the Storz
connection; and
         (c)   Post(s) shall extend above ground to a height at least equal to
the top of the Fire Department hose connection.
      (7)   Post indicator valves (PIV) will be located at least three feet
away from FDCs but not so far as to not be visible by the engine operator who
is supplying the FDC (Fire Department connection). PIVs must not be located in
a direct line from the Storz connection so that it does not interfere with the
operation of the FDC.
   (B)   Security caps.  When a building is protected by an automatic sprinkler
and/or standpipe system and the Fire Department connection is exposed to undue
vandalism the Fire Marshal or his or her designee may require that a Knox
security cap be installed. All new buildings equipped with an automatic
sprinkler and/or standpipe system shall install a Knox locking cap on the Fire
Department connection.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.122  FIRE ALARM/DETECTION SYSTEMS, FIRE REPORTING AND FALSE ALARMS.
   This section shall cover installation and maintenance of all manual and
automatic fire alarm systems in new and existing buildings and also, faulty
and/or false alarms, and delayed notification of manual or automatic systems.
   (A)   Supervision of alarm systems.  Fire alarm systems required by 675
I.A.C.13, 675 I.A.C. 22 or this chapter shall be monitored as set forth in 675
I.A.C. 13-2.3-96 and 675 I.A.C. 22-2.2-17; 1996 edition of NFPA Standard No.
72, by an approved central, proprietary or remote station service or a local
alarm which gives audible and visual signals at a constantly attended location.
These remote services shall notify the County Fire Dispatch Center at 765-483-
3377 who will, in turn, dispatch the proper city fire station to the site/
source of the alarm.
   (B)   Fire alarm control panel.  The fire alarm control panel shall be
installed near the main entrance in the location required by the Fire
Department and shall have a constantly visible indicator showing the condition
of the system. This position may be changed with approval of the City Fire
Marshal or his or her designee.
   (C)   Reset instructions.  A set of instructions on methods to reset the
alarm after an alarm or trouble condition signal has been given shall be posted
adjacent to the panel. The instructions shall be protected from moisture or
other damage. The alarm disconnect switch shall be clearly marked within the
electrical panel where it is located. There must be made available an employee
to reset the alarm and to accept the responsibility of the alarms
functionality. An electronic copy of the reset instructions will be made
available to the City Fire Department to keep on file at the stations.
   (D)   Marking of fire protection equipment, fire hydrants and access roads. 
Fire protection equipment and fire hydrants shall be clearly identified in a
manner approved by the City Fire Department to prevent obstruction by parking
and other obstructions.
   (E)   Requirements for commercial kitchen exhaust equipment and fire
protection equipment.  Any new installation of kitchen fire suppression
equipment shall be inspected by a City Fire Inspector and City Building
Inspector prior to the kitchen cooking equipment being placed in service. The
installing company shall:
      (1)   Use installers that are qualified individuals by the manufacturer;
      (2)   Notify the City Fire Department Fire Prevention Division and the
City Building Inspectors Office at least 24 hours in advance of the system
being completed for system testing; and
      (3)   Complete a form stating that the system has been inspected, signed
by the installation company’s representative. This form is to be kept on file
at the City Fire Department.
   (F)   Fire watch.  Any time a fire watch is required for temporary fire
protection, each member of the fire watch must be an state certified
firefighter I/II. If the firefighter is not a member of the City Fire
Department, the certification of the firefighter must be provided to the City
Fire Department prior to the beginning of the fire watch. Every fire watch
shall have one firefighter for every 500 people of occupant load. There will be
a charge of $25 per hour per firefighter charged for this service. The
firefighter must have at least one means of communication with dispatch at the
County Sheriff’s Department either through the 800 radio system or through cell
phone contact to 765-483-3377.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
FIRE PROTECTION IN PUBLIC LOTS
§ 94.135  FIRE PROTECTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE SALE AND STORAGE LOTS AND PORTABLE
STORAGE LOTS.
   Motor vehicle sales lots, storage lots and portable storage lots hereafter
constructed or added to, shall provide and maintain fire hydrants and access
roads in accordance with this code.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)  Penalty, see §
94.999
GENERAL PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FIRE
§ 94.150  OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall openly burn any material except as provided in 325 I.A.C. 4-
1-3 or 325 I.A.C. 4-1-4.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.151  PRIOR APPROVAL FOR CERTAIN FIRES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Burning with prior approval of the State Air Pollution Control Board
or its designated agent may be authorized for the following:
      (1)   Emergency burning of spilled petroleum products when all reasonable
efforts to recover the spilled material have been made and failure to burn
would result in an imminent fire hazard or water pollution problem;
      (2)   Burning of refuse consisting of material resulting from a natural
disaster;
      (3)   Burning for the purpose of fire training;
      (4)   Burning of natural growth derived from a clearing operation, i.e.,
removal of natural growth for change in use of the land; and
      (5)   Burning of highly explosive or other dangerous materials for which
no alternative disposal method exists or where transportation of such materials
is impossible.
   (B)   Burning not exempted by 325 I.A.C. 4-1-3 may be permitted with prior
receipt of a variance application and approval of the State Air Pollution
Control Board or its designated agent.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the property owner or business owner,
whichever is pertinent, to contact the IAPCB for this approval.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.152  EXEMPTIONS.
   The nature and quantity of smoke generated by burning will vary with the
material burned and the conditions under which it is burned. However, any smoke
will contain pollutants, some of which are toxic and harmful to health. Thus it
is the position of the Office of Air Management that any burning that does not
serve a useful function, or for which alternatives are available, should be
discouraged. It is recognized that burning has traditionally been a quick and
cheap means of disposal of unwanted materials. In most instances, given the
environmental and health impacts, burning can no longer be justified.
   (A)   The following types of fires are permitted within the city limits:
      (1)   Fires used for recreational and cooking purposes, i.e., camp fires;
(must notify the Fire Department 24 hours before setting these fires) (cooking
grills and backyard fireplaces are exempt from notification); and
      (2)   Residential and commercial burning: burning is absolutely
prohibited in apartment complexes, at commercial properties, in downtown areas
and at mobile home parks. Burning is allowed where the residence contains three
or fewer units:
         (a)   Burning shall be in a noncombustible container sufficiently
vented to induce adequate primary combustion air with enclosed sides, a bottom,
and a mesh covering with openings no larger than one and one-fourth inch
square;
         (b)   Burning shall be constantly attended by at least one adult
having an attached working water hose (garden type) or a 10# ABC fire
extinguisher present;
         (c)   Burning shall be conducted starting one-half hour after sunrise
and completely extinguished one-half hour before sunset; and
         (d)   Burning prohibited in areas that are within 25 feet of any
structure or public right-of- way.
   (B)   All exemptions shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   Only wood products shall be burned unless otherwise stated above;
i.e., limbs, paper and untreated and uncoated lumber. The burning of leaves is
prohibited in the city; they are to be raked to the edge of the road for city
pickup. No garbage or tires are to be burned.
      (2)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
      (3)   If fires are determined by members of the City Fire Department to
create an air pollution problem, a nuisance or a fire hazard, they shall be
extinguished. The City Fire Department shall have the authority to enter on to
any property for purposes of extinguishing any fire which creates an air
pollution problem, a nuisance or a fire hazard.
      (4)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation,
statewide, countywide or citywide fire watch/restrictions and the like.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
§ 94.153  LIABILITY.
   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible material,
which constitutes or contributes to a fire causing air pollution or property
damage, shall not be excused from responsibility thereof on the basis that the
fire was set by vandals, accidental or an act of God.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.154  PYROTECHNICS AND INDOOR FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to ignite or otherwise
use pyrotechnic special effects material or fireworks inside any building or
structure.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, occupant or manager of a
premises to permit the igniting or other use of pyrotechnic special effects
material or fireworks inside any building or structure.
   (C)   An owner, lessee, occupant or manager who has control of any
entertainment venue or other commercial premises shall include in any agreement
for use of the premises that igniting or otherwise using pyrotechnics or
fireworks inside any building or structure is prohibited by this chapter.
   (D)   An owner, lessee, occupant or manager who has control of the premises
that observes the igniting or other use of pyrotechnics or fireworks inside any
building or structure on the premises and fails to attempt to stop the use is
in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)  Penalty, see §
94.999
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
§ 94.165  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INFORMATION VAULT.
   An approved hazardous materials information vault shall be provided at all
buildings or areas that are subject to hazardous material regulations of the
City Fire Code or the State Fire Prevention Code. The hazardous material
information vault shall be of a type approved by the Fire Marshal or his or her
designee. The vault shall be keyed in the same manner as the key boxes in §
94.088. The vault shall be placed in a location approved by the Fire Marshal or
his or her designee.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.166  MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEETS (MSDS).
   As new materials are brought onto the premises, the City Fire Department
shall be notified. The City Fire Department shall be notified of any materials
that are no longer on site.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.167  UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any person who supervises, manages or directs the installation,
retrofitting, removal or closure of underground liquid storage tanks,
flammable, combustible or non-flammable liquids as well as flammable compressed
gases shall notify the City Fire Department Fire Prevention Division 14 days
prior to commencement of work; however, this requirement shall not apply in
emergency repair work where 14-day notification is not possible.
   (B)   Also, the correct steps must be taken to also contact the gas company
and the city utilities of these activities as well.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)  Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Penalty.  If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter that are not part of the state adopted fire and
building laws as set forth by I.C. 22-13-2-11, or shall do any act prohibited
herein, or shall fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time
prescribed by the City Fire Marshal or his or her designee, or shall fail,
neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the City Fire Marshal or
his or her designee in connection with the provisions of this chapter that are
not part of the state adopted fire and building laws as set forth by I.C. 22-
13-2-11 for each violation, failure or refusal, the person, firm or corporation
may be fined up to and including the maximum penalty prescribed by I.C. 36-1-3-
8(10), or may be subject to the civil penalty provisions of division (A)(2)
below. Each day of unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first sentence of
this division shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Civil penalty.  The city shall impose civil monetary fines or
penalties for violations of this chapter which may be enforced by City Fire
Department in accordance with the procedures outlined in division (A)(4) below.
      (3)   Civil violations; exceptions.  Any person, firm or corporation who
(which) uses property in violation of this chapter or knowingly permits another
person, firm or corporation to do so shall upon citation by the designated
enforcement entity be deemed to have committed a civil violation and shall pay
to the city a civil monetary fine in the amount prescribed in division (A)(4)
below.
      (4)   Schedule of monetary fines.
         (a)   The civil monetary fine for each civil violation shall be $50
except as provided in division (A)(4)(b) below.
         (b)   For a repeated civil violation by the same violator, the
following fines shall apply:
 
Second violation                 $100
Third violation                  $150
Fourth violation                 $200
Each violation in excess of four $500
 
         (c)   These civil violation fines do not preclude the civil violator
from responsibility of payment of costs incurred by the city if it is a
necessity for the city to enter onto a property to correct, terminate or cease
a violation in accordance with procedures outlined in this chapter. All monies
collected with the exception of court costs will be placed in the city’s non-
reverting fund as set forth in Ordinance 09-02.
      (5)   Citation for civil violations.
         (a)   1.   The City Fire Marshal or his or her duly authorized
designees, upon verification of a violation of this chapter, may issue a
citation to any responsible party who commits a violation of this chapter. The
citation may be served by personal service or by certified mail or by placement
in a conspicuous place on the property where the violation occurs. If personal
service of a civil violation is made by the City Fire Marshal or his or her
designees, the city fire official will:
               a.   Identify himself or herself as an employee of the City Fire
Department; and
               b.   In a conspicuous manner, wear on his or her person
identification of his or her employment with the City Fire Department.
            2.   The citation shall serve as notice to the responsible parties
that the party has committed a violation of this chapter.
         (b)   No citation shall be issued unless the violator has been issued
a notice of violation with a minimum of one and a maximum of ten days before
the issuance of the citation in order to allow the violator the opportunity to
correct the violation and to come into compliance with the prescribed section
of the pertinent ordinance.
         (c)   The notice of violation shall include:
            1.   The date of issuance;
            2.   The name and address of the person charged;
            3.   The section number of the pertinent ordinance which has been
violated;
            4.   The nature of the civil violation;
            5.   The place and time at which the civil violation occurred;
            6.   The range of fines which could be assessed upon continued
noncompliance activity;
            7.   The specific time allowed in which to bring the civil
violation into compliance;
            8.   The name, business address and telephone number of the
official issuing the notice of violation; and
            9.   The date and time of the notice and the number of days given
on the notice.
         (d)   The citation shall be on a form adopted by the Department and
shall include:
            1.   The date of issuance;
            2.   The name and address of the person charged;
            3.   The section number of the pertinent ordinance which has been
violated;
            4.   The nature of the civil violation;
            5.   The place and time at which the civil violation occurred;
            6.   The schedule of monetary fines to be assessed;
            7.   The name, business address and telephone number of the
official issuing the citation; and
            8.   The date and title of notice given and the number of days
given on notice.
         (e)   The date, time and location of the court in which the civil
violation shall be adjudicated shall be determined by the court which will send
notification thereof to the violator and the Fire Marshal or his or her
designee.
      (6)   Trial for civil violation.
         (a)   Upon the issuance of a citation, the City Fire Marshal or his or
her designee shall forward a copy of the citation to the designated enforcement
entity, the City Attorney and the City Court shall schedule the case for trial.
            1.   The City Attorney, his or her designee or the City Fire
Department is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
            2.   All procedures will be in compliance with the State Rules for
Civil Procedure and will adopt court cost recovery for infractions according to
the state.
         (b)   In proceedings before the court for a civil violation:
            1.   By a preponderance of the evidence presented at the trial, the
designated enforcement entity has the burden of proving the civil violation and
that the violator committed the infraction; and
            2.   The violator may question all witnesses who appear for the
designated enforcement entity and may also produce evidence or witnesses on the
violator’s behalf.
         (c)   A person found to have committed or caused a civil violation is
liable for the fine, court costs and fees. No costs may be assessed against the
designated enforcement entity in any action.
         (d)   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this section does not
preclude the designated enforcement entity from alternative relief from the
court in the same action or from seeking injunctive relief which is available
under the law of the state or any other remedy in a separate action for the
enforcement of the pertinent ordinance.
         (e)   When a violator has been found to have committed or caused a
civil violation, the court may impose additional civil penalties and grant
appropriate relief to abate or halt the violation, and the court may direct
that payment of the civil monetary fine or additional civil penalties be
suspended or deferred under conditions established by the court. If a violator
fails to pay the civil penalty or violates the terms of any other order imposed
by the court, the violator may be held in contempt for the refusal to abide by
the court’s orders.
         (f)   A change of venue from the City Court shall not be granted in
this case.
   (B)   Fines for false alarms.  Any person, firm, corporation or entity
having a fire, burglar, holdup, or any type of intrusion alarm shall be charged
a fee of $25 for the second false alarm responded to by the City Police
Department or Fire Department within any 12-month period and $50 for each false
alarm so responded to thereafter within the same 12-month period. The fee may
be waived if the owner, lessee or possessor of the alarm shows to the
satisfaction of the City Police Chief or City Fire Department Chief, the City
Fire Marshal or his or her designee, under penalty of perjury, and within 30
days of occurrence of the false alarm, that the false alarm was not the result
of negligence, an intentional act or improper maintenance. Any fines collected
for the City Fire Department under this section will be placed in the non-
reverting fund as set forth in Ordinance 09-02.
(Ord. 2009-10, passed 11-30-2009)
CHAPTER 95:  FLOOD HAZARD PROTECTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
95.001   Statutory authorization
   
95.002   Finding of fact
   
95.003   Statement of purpose
   
95.004   Objectives
General Provisions
   
95.015   Definitions
   
95.016   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
95.017   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
95.018   Establishment of floodplain development permits
   
95.019   Compliance
   
95.020   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
95.021   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
95.022   Interpretation
   
95.023   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
95.035   Designation of Administrator
   
95.036   Permit procedures
   
95.037   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
95.050   General standards
   
95.051   Specific standards
   
95.052   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
95.053   Critical facility
   
95.054   Standards for identified floodways
   
95.055   Standards for identified fringe
   
95.056   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringe
   
95.057   Standards for flood-prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
95.070   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
95.071   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
95.072   Variance procedures
   
95.073   Conditions for variances
   
95.074   Variance notifications
   
95.075   Historic structures
   
95.076   Special conditions
 
   
95.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT,
PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 95.001  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Common Council of the City of Lebanon does hereby adopt the following
floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.002  FINDING OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the City of Lebanon are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce, and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.003  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage.
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the City of Lebanon by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.004  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health.
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects.
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions.
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains.
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.015  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH,, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance flood event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been
performed, no base flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent
annual chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations
are shown within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of
Zones A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance
shallow flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths
are between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance
shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between
one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic
analyses are shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance flood event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of
an under-construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of
special flood hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of
a protection system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete
for insurance rating purposes. Zone A99 may only be used when the flood
protection system has reached specified statutory progress toward completion.
No base flood elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. Accessory structures should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the one-percent annual chance
flood. Basement means that portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade
(below ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT. Does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure's
elevation information. This certification must be signed and sealed by a land
surveyor, engineer, or architect authorized by law to certify elevation
information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED. Home park or subdivision means a manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final-site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which, the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration
(FIA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report,
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community, as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD).
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (see FREEBOARD).
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The floodplain includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. Floodplain management regulations are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown (factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP (AS RELATED TO VARIANCES OF THIS CHAPTER). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The City of
Lebanon Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional,
unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial
hardship alone is NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations,
physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors
likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these
problems can be resolved through other means without granting a variance, even
if; the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable, mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the currently
effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA
through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA's determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle."
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced after the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock; gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a one percent chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the one-percent annual chance flood. See REGULATORY
FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (one-percent annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
Recreational vehicle means a vehicle which is (1) built on a single chassis;
(2) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections; (3) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a
light duty truck; and (4) designed primarily not for use as a permanent
dwelling, but as quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is
acceptable to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and
the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any
location is as defined in §
95.017. The "regulatory flood" is also known by the term "base flood", "one-
percent annual chance flood", and "100-year flood".
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
city subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the City of
Lebanon are generally identified as such on the Boone County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated January 18, 2012 as well as
any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM
as Zone A, AE, AT- A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site; such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred "repetitive loss"
or "substantial damage" regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements. Suspension
means the removal of a participating community from the NFIP because the
community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this ordinance where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.016  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.017  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the City of Lebanon shall be as
delineated on the one-percent annual chance flood profiles in the Flood
Insurance Study of Boone County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas dated January
18, 2012 and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map dated January 18, 2012
as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the City of Lebanon, delineated as an
"A Zone" on the Boone County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated January 18, 2012 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best data available as provided by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area
from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party needs to replace existing
data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.018  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.019  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.020  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.021  DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.022  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements.
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body.
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.023  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the City of Lebanon, the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 95.035  DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Common Council of the City of Lebanon hereby appoints the Deputy
Director of Planning and Zoning to administer and implement the provisions of
this chapter and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.036  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See § 95.037(B)(6) for
additional information.)
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor, professional
engineer or architect and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant's risk.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or
architect and certified by same (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
floodproofing certification submitted.). The applicant shall correct any
deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed to
proceed. Failure to submit the floodproofing certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an elevation
certification (FEMA Elevation Certificate Form 81-31 or any future updates)
which depicts the "as-built" lowest floor elevation is required to be submitted
to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a floodproofing
measure,  floodproofing certification (FEMA Floodproofing Certificate Form 81-
65 or any future updates) is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.037  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
95.054 and
95.056(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and "as-built" elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this ordinance.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
95.036.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
95.036.
      (13)   Perform a minimum of three inspections to ensure that all-
applicable, ordinance and floodplain development requirements have been
satisfied. The first upon the establishment of the flood protection grade
reference mark at the development site; the second upon the establishment of
the structure's footprint/establishment of the lowest floor; and the final
inspection upon completion and submission of the required finished construction
elevation certificate. Authorized City of Lebanon officials shall have the
right to enter and inspect properties located in the SFHA.
      (14)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (15)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the ordinance, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 95.050  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantia! improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located; and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Parking lots, driveways, and sidewalks within the SFHA shall be
constructed with permeable materials.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of one to one) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory floodwater, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by floodwater, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by floodwater.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory floodwater.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.051  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
95.050, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than: 180 days.
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This subchapter does not apply to returning the
existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was
removed to avoid flood damage.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous repair, addition or improvement constructed since the community's
first floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D).
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D). Structures located in all "A Zones" may be floodproofed in lieu
of being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator as set forth in §
95.037(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
         (g)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (h)   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings/
venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood
vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will
violate the requirements of this division (D). Periodic inspections will be
conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The affidavit
shall be recorded, along with the deed, in the office of the Boone County
Recorder.
         (i)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with the
structure's deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below the
lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet)
shall not be improved, finished or otherwise converted; the community will have
the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall be
recorded in the office of the Boone County Recorder.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (B).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes .to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D).
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for "manufactured homes" as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D).
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.052  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.053  CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.054  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
95.017, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/improvement to a residence in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
95.050 through
95.057 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community's more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse effect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
0.15 of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under
the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as
proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the City of Lebanon shall submit the data and request that the Federal
Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping
standard regulations found at 44 GAR § 65.12.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.055  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development Permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
95.050 through
95.057 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.056  STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGE.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the one-
percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection
grade has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions,
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
95.050 through
95.057 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and one-percent annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
95.050 through
95.057 have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development shall not adversely affect
the efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This
adverse affect is defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory
flood of at 0.14 of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood
elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway
condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.057  STANDARDS FOR FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
95.050 through
95.057.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 95.070  DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The City of Lebanon Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals
and requests for variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.071  DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Boone County Circuit
or Superior Court.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.072  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and;
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable.
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area.
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site.
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.073  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
95.054 or §
95.056(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
95.054 or §
95.056(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction of §
95.051, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures (refer to §
95.075).
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (see §
95.074).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request (see §
95.074).
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.074  VARIANCE NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.075  HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an "historic
structure" and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.076  SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
95.070 through
95.076, and the purposes of this chapter, the City of Lebanon Board of Zoning
Appeals may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
§ 95.999  PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code for the City of Lebanon. All violations shall
be punishable by a fine not less than $100 and not exceeding $2500 per day.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The City of Lebanon Common Council shall inform the owner that any
such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the City of Lebanon from taking such
other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-24-2017)
CHAPTER 96:  HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Weeds and Grasses
   
96.01   Unlawful growth of weeds and grass
   
96.02   Junk
   
96.03   Removal of violation
   
96.04   Collection of fines and costs
   
96.05   Appeals
 
   
96.99   Penalty
WEEDS AND GRASSES
§ 96.01  UNLAWFUL GROWTH OF WEEDS AND GRASS.
   (A)   Policy. Because the unrestricted growth of weeds, grass or noxious
plants leads to increased presence of insects and vermin, can conceal dangerous
conditions on the land, adversely affects the property and adjacent properties
and otherwise adversely affects the public health, safety and welfare, it is
the policy of the city to prohibit these conditions and to take all necessary
permitted action to remove the conditions.
   (B)   Mowing required. All owners and tenants of real property located
within the city shall cut and remove weeds and rank vegetation, as defined
herein, growing on the property.
   (C)   Weeds and rank vegetation. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      WEEDS and RANK VEGETATION. Include all weeds, grasses and growing plants
which exceed a height of eight inches, except agricultural crops, hay and
pasture, garden plants, ornamental grasses and plants used for landscape
purposes, trees, flowers and wetland or drainage vegetation.
   (D)   Administration. The City Planning and Zoning Department (hereinafter
"the Department" or "the city") shall be responsible for administering this
chapter.
   (E)   Notice. Any notice required to be given under this chapter by the city
to the owner of a property shall be delivered to the address provided to the
County Auditor for tax purposes. If the owner cannot be found using the address
from the County Auditor, the owner shall be deemed to have received the notice
two days after it was mailed.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. 2017-08, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 96.02  JUNK.
   (A)   Policy. Because of the danger to health by providing places for vermin
and insects and/or creating a fire hazard by the accumulation of discarded
materials and the risk caused by the attraction of children to it, junk is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPOST PILE. A pile, mound, or heap (whether on the ground or in a
container or structure) consisting solely of organic materials that are
intentionally collected in order to create a compost material for gardening
purposes.
      DEBRIS. Remains of something broken down or destroyed, rough broken bits
and pieces of stone, glass, wood, concrete building materials after demolition,
bits and pieces of rubbish or litter, or a heap of rock fragments.
      JUNK. Any article in any form composed of or consisting of any of the
following enumerated: discarded, abandoned, or cast-off materials. The term
shall include, but not be limited to, paper, rags, tin, metals, residue from
burning, broken glass, clothing, rubber, plastics, synthetic substances and
fabrics, bottles, feathers, automobile parts detached from the vehicle as a
whole, and household items not intended for exposure to rain and other
inclement weather (includes furniture, mattress, and major appliances).
      LUMBER. Wooden materials that are not in good usable condition or are not
kept in an orderly fashion or are not actively being used in a construction
process on the parcel where the materials are being kept.
      PUBLIC PLACES. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, avenues,
lanes, alleys, or other public ways, and parks, squares, plazas, grounds, and
buildings frequented by the general public whether publicly or privately owned,
including but not limited to, restaurants, shopping centers, stores, hotels,
motels, industrial establishments, office buildings, apartment buildings, gas
stations, hospitals, and clinics.
      TRASH. Waste such as feathers, coffee grounds, ashes, tin cans, paper
boxes, glass, wood, shrubs, yard clippings, leaves, tree trimmings, and other
similar materials.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit the accumulation of
junk, trash, or debris upon any property unless located in a properly zoned and
established landfill or junkyard. This shall include any of the following:
      (1)   Junk, trash, litter, refuse, debris, lumber, wood, and brush;
      (2)   Abandoned, discarded, or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, mobile homes, trailers, campers, furniture, stoves, refrigerators,
freezers, appliances, cans, or containers;
      (3)   Automobile parts, including tires and any other portion or parts of
any motor vehicle detached from the vehicle as a whole; and
      (4)   Scrap metal or pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper,
aluminum, or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain, plastic,
rubber, or any other materials and whether intact or in parts.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section to the contrary,
it shall not be a violation of this section to create and maintain a
residential compost pile provided:
      (1)   The compost pile does not occupy an area greater than 100 square
feet; and
      (2)   The compost pile is either 100 feet from any other parcel or
completely screened by a fence or other man made or natural screen such that
the compost pile is not visible from any other parcel.
   (E)   Maintenance of property.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling any
private premises to maintain such private premises in a clean and orderly
manner. It shall be a violation of this chapter to abandon, neglect, or
disregard the condition or appearance of any premises so as to permit the
accumulation of junk and trash thereon.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling any public
place to keep the premises clean of all junk, trash, litter, refuse, and debris
and to take measures, including daily cleanup of the premises, to prevent the
accumulation of the above listed materials or movement by the elements to
adjoining properties.
      (3)   The property owners and contractors in charge of any construction
site shall maintain the construction site in such manner as to avoid the
accumulation of junk and trash, and no junk or trash shall be allowed to be
carried by the elements to adjoining properties. All junk, trash, and litter
from construction or related activities shall be picked up at the end of each
work day and placed in a container for regular removal.
   (F)   Such nuisances shall be subject to abatement in accordance with §
96.03.
(Ord. 2017-08, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 96.03  REMOVAL OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Notice to correct.
      (1)   If the Department finds a violation of this chapter, it shall mail
to the property owner and/or tenant a notice to correct the violation. The
notice to correct shall be delivered either by personal delivery by a
representative of the Department or an officer of the City Police Department,
or by certified mail.
      (2)   The notice to correct shall advise the owner/tenant of the
following: the nature of the violation; the corrective action required; that
the owner/tenant is to correct the violation within seven days after mailing or
personal delivery of the notice; the city's remedies if the person fails to
correct the violation; and, that if the condition is not timely corrected a
fine will be assessed (without further action) the day following the time
allowed for correction.
   (B)   Remedies if violation not timely corrected. If the violator fails to
timely correct a violation as provided in a notice to correct, the city shall
have the following remedies.
      (1)   Fine. The city may fine the violator the sum identified in §
96.99 if the violation is not corrected within the seven-day cure period
identified in the notice to correct. The city is not required to provide to the
violator any further notice or document as a precondition to assessing the
fine. The city shall notify the violator of the amount of the fine assessed and
other costs as provided in §
96.04.
      (2)   Correction by city; costs and administrative fee.
         (a)   If the violator fails to correct the violation within the time
allowed, the city and/or a contractor hired by the city may enter upon the
property and correct the violation.
         (b)   If the city, or a contractor hired by the city, corrects the
violation, the violator shall be liable for:
            1.   The city's actual costs of correcting the violation; and
            2.   An administrative fee in the amount of $250.
         (c)   Correction of the violation by the city does not relieve the
violator from liability for any applicable fine.
         (d)   If deemed necessary, the city may obtain an order from any court
of competent jurisdiction authorizing the city and its agents to enter upon the
property for purposes of correcting the violation. However, the city is not
required to obtain an order and may enter upon property to enforce this chapter
under the authority granted herein.
      (3)   Non-exclusive remedies. The city may exercise one or more of these
remedies without waiving other available remedies. The city may also pursue any
other remedy provided for by state law or city ordinance.
   (C)   Enforcement of repeated violations; continuous enforcement. If a
second violation of this chapter is discovered within 30 days after a notice to
correct was issued for a violation on the same property, the Department may
issue a notice to correct which includes a notice of continuous enforcement
providing for ongoing enforcement of this chapter without further notice.
      (1)   This notice shall be delivered in the same manner and provide the
same advisements as provided in division (A) above. In addition, this notice
shall clearly and conspicuously delineate it as a notice of continuous
enforcement, shall identify the length of time the notice remains in effect,
and shall advise the violator that further violations shall be subject to
additional fines and remedies provided in this chapter without additional
notice.
      (2)   If the owner fails to correct the violation within seven days after
delivery of this notice, the Department can issue fines, take corrective action
and levy all costs and other remedies provided herein. Thereafter, upon
discovery of additional violations the Department can invoke all remedies
without providing additional notice. Upon taking any action the Department
shall deliver to the violator a statement identifying the date of each
violation; the corrective action taken; the amount of fine(s), fees and costs
due; and the time in which payment is due.
      (3)   A notice of continuous enforcement may remain in effect for the
remainder of the calendar year in which it is issued.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. 2017-08, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 96.04  COLLECTION OF FINES AND COSTS.
   (A)   The Department shall send to the violator written notice of the amount
due for the fine, costs of correction and administrative fee within five
business days of the accrual of the fine or completion of the corrective
action, The notice shall advise the violator where and in what manner payment
may be made, and that payment is due within ten days of issuance of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   If an owner fails to pay the amount due within the time allowed,
the Department shall certify to the County Auditor the unpaid amount, along
with any additional administrative costs incurred in the certification. The
County Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the real estate tax
duplicate for the property affected, to be collected as delinquent taxes are
collected. The funds collected shall be disbursed to the non-reverting code
enforcement fund of the Department.
      (2)   In the alternative, the city may initiate an action in court to
collect the amounts due. The violator shall be responsible for the city's costs
and reasonable attorney's fees in an action.
   (C)   After correction of a violation and upon request by the violator, the
Department may, in its sole discretion, reduce or waive any fine or
administrative costs levied under this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. 2011-12, passed 8-8-2011; Ord. 2017-08,
passed 7-24-2017)
§ 96.05  APPEALS.
   (A)   If the violator contests the city's determination of a violation or
the amount of fines, fees and costs due, the violator may appeal the
determination to the County Superior Court within 30 days after issuance of the
city's notice identifying the fines and costs due. Review of the city's
determination shall be de novo. Failure to file legal action within the
designated time constitutes a waiver of the review.
   (B)   On review, the city shall have the burden of proving the violation
and/or the amount of the fine, fees and costs by a preponderance of the
evidence.
   (C)   (1)   If the court determines that a violation existed, or if the
review is only of the amount of fines and costs due, the court shall determine
the total amount of the fine(s), costs of correction and administrative fee
due. In addition, the owner shall also be liable for the city's costs and
reasonable attorney's fees. The court shall set the time in which the amount
due shall be paid. If the amount due is not paid within the time specified, the
city may collect it from the owner as provided in §
96.04.
      (2)   If the court determines that no violation existed, the notice to
correct shall be deemed void and the owner shall not be liable for a fine,
administrative fee or costs of correction.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. 2017-08, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   Owners found to be in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
in the following amounts:
 
Violation                                           Fine
First violation                                     $100
Second violation within same calendar year          $200
Third violation within same calendar year           $300
Each additional violation within same calendar year $500
 
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 2-8-2010; Ord. 2017-08, passed 7-24-2017)
CHAPTER 97:  HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Historic Preservation Commission establishment and organization
   
97.04   Powers and duties of the Commission
   
97.05   Historic districts, conservation districts and guidelines
   
97.06   Interim protection
   
97.07   Certificates of appropriateness
   
97.08   Staff approvals
   
97.09   Visual compatibility
   
97.10   Preservation of historical and architectural character upon alteration
or relocation mandated
   
97.11   Appeal provisions
   
97.12   Maintenance
   
97.13   Relationship with zoning districts
   
97.14   Paint colors
   
97.15   Interested parties
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01  PURPOSE.
   In order to promote the educational, cultural and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to ensure the harmonious and orderly growth and
development of the municipality; to maintain established residential
neighborhoods in danger of having their distinctiveness destroyed; to enhance
property values and attract new residents; to ensure the viability of the
traditional downtown area and to enhance tourism within the city, it is deemed
essential by the city that qualities relating to its history and harmonious
outward appearance of its structures be preserved. This purpose is advanced
through the restoration and preservation of historic areas and buildings, the
construction of compatible new buildings where appropriate, and the maintenance
and insurance of compatibility in regards to style, form, proportion, texture
and material between historic buildings and those of contemporary design. It is
the intention of the city through this chapter to preserve and protect historic
and architecturally worthy buildings, structures, sites, monuments,
streetscapes and neighborhoods which impart a distinct aesthetic quality to the
city and serve as visible reminders of its historic heritage.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in
the present tense include the future tense. The singular number includes the
plural, and the plural, the singular. The word SHALL is always mandatory. The
word PERSON includes a firm, a partnership, a limited liability company or a
corporation, as well as an individual. Terms not defined in this section shall
have the meanings customarily assigned to them.
   ALTERATION.  A material or color change in the external architectural
features of any building, structure or site within a historic district.
   CITY.  The City of Lebanon, Indiana.
   CLASSIFICATIONS.
      (1)   CONTRIBUTING.  A “C” classification means the property is at least
40 years old, but does not meet the criteria for an “O” or “N” classification.
These resources are important to the density or continuity of the area’s
historic fabric. CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURES can be listed in the National Register
only as part of a historic district.
      (2)   NON-CONTRIBUTING.  Property classified as “NC” is not included in
an inventory unless it is located within the boundaries of a historic district.
These properties may be less than 50 years old, or they may be older structures
that have been altered in a way that they have lost their historic character,
or they may be otherwise incompatible with their historic surroundings. These
properties are not eligible for listing in the National Register.
      (3)   NOTABLE.  A classification of “N” means that the property does not
merit the outstanding rating, but it is still above average in its importance.
A NOTABLE STRUCTURE may be eligible for the National Register.
      (4)   OUTSTANDING.  The “O” classification means that the property has
sufficient historic or architectural significance that is listed, or is
eligible for individual listing, in the National Register of Historic Places.
OUTSTANDING RESOURCES can be of local, state or national importance.
   DEMOLITION.  The complete or substantial removal of any building, structure
or site located in a historic district.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT.  A single building, structure, object or site or a
concentration of buildings, structures, objects, spaces or sites, the
boundaries of which are described or delineated on a map approved in an
ordinance adopted under this chapter.
   INTERESTED PARTY.  One of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The City Council;
      (3)   The City Plan Commission;
      (4)   A neighborhood association, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
a majority of whose members are residents of a historic district designated by
an ordinance adopted under this chapter;
      (5)   An owner or occupant of property located in a historic district
established by an ordinance adopted under this chapter;
      (6)   Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Inc., or any of its
successors; or
      (7)   The state historic preservation officer designated under I.C. 14-
21-1.
   PRESERVATION GUIDELINES.  Criteria, locally developed, which identify local
design concerns in an effort to assist property owners in maintaining the
character of the designated district or buildings during the process of
rehabilitation or new construction.
   PRIMARY AREA.  The principal area of historic and/or architectural
significance within a historic district as delineated on the map establishing
the boundaries of the historic district.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE.  Work for which no certificate of appropriateness is
required.
   SECONDARY AREA.  An area in a historic district delineated on the map
establishing the boundaries of the historic district that is adjacent to a
primary area and which has a visual relationship to the primary area and could
affect the preservation of the primary area. The purpose of designating a
SECONDARY AREA is to assure its compatibility and harmony with an adjacent,
primary area.
   STREETSCAPE.  Appearance from a public way, the distinguishing
characteristics of which are created by the width of the street and sidewalks,
their paving materials and color, the design of the street furniture (e. g.,
street lights, trash receptacles, benches and the like) use of plant materials
such as trees and shrubs, and the setback, mass and proportion of those
buildings which enclose the street.
   VISUAL COMPATIBILITY.  Those elements of design that meet the guidelines set
out in §
97.09.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.03  HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION ESTABLISHMENT AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Creation.  There is hereby established the Historic Preservation
Commission of the city (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”).
   (B)   Composition.  The Commission shall consist of five voting members.
Three members shall be appointed by the Mayor, and two shall be appointed by
the City Council. All members shall be residents of the city who are interested
in the preservation and development of historic areas. The members of the
Commission should include professionals in the disciplines of architectural
history, planning and other disciplines related to historic preservation, to
the extent that those professionals are available in the community. Nonvoting,
advisory member(s) may be appointed to the Commission by the Mayor with
approval by the City Council. Commission members shall serve without
compensation, except for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of
their duties.
   (C)   Term.  Voting members shall serve for a term of three years; however,
the initial terms of members shall be for one year, two years and three years
in order for the terms to be staggered. The term for nonvoting, advisory
members shall be for three years. A vacancy shall be filled within 90 days for
the duration of the term.
   (D)   Commission Administrator.  A City Administrator designated by the
Mayor shall serve as the ex officio administrator of the Commission. The
Administrator shall provide staff assistance to the Commission, act as the
Commission’s Secretary and issue certificates of appropriateness as directed by
the Commission.
   (E)   Officers.  The Commission shall elect from its membership a
Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Treasurer who shall serve for one year and
who may be re-elected.
   (F)   Rules.  The Commission shall adopt rules consistent with this chapter
for the transaction of its business. The rules must include the time and place
of regular meetings and a procedure for the calling of special meetings.
   (G)   Meetings.  Commission meetings must be open to the public in
accordance with the state’s Open Door Law and a public record shall be kept of
the Commission’s resolutions, proceedings and actions. The Commission shall
hold regular meetings, at least monthly, except when it has no business
pending. Special meetings may be called in a manner determined by the
Commission and its rules.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.04  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall be concerned with those elements of development,
redevelopment, rehabilitation and preservation that affect visual quality in a
historic district, which include, but are not limited to, view-sheds,
landscapes and streetscapes of historic importance. The Commission may not
consider details of design, interior arrangements or building features, if
those details, arrangements or features are not subject to public view, and may
not make any requirement except for the purpose of preventing development,
alteration or demolition in the historic district obviously incongruous with
the historic district.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct surveys and establish historic districts
in accordance with the provisions of §
97.05.
   (C)   The Commission may adopt preservation guidelines for architectural
review. If adopted, preservation guidelines shall be published and made readily
accessible to the general public.
   (D)   The Commission has the authority to receive funds in order to promote
its stated purpose.
   (E)   The Commission shall promote public interest in historic preservation
by initiating and carrying on a public relations and community education
program.
   (F)   The Commission, through this chapter, may:
      (1)   Acquire by purchase, gift, grant, bequest, devise or lease any real
or personal property, including easements, that is appropriate for carrying out
the purposes of the Commission;
      (2)   Hold title to real and personal property; and
      (3)   Sell, lease, rent or otherwise dispose of real and personal
property at a public or private sale on the terms and conditions that the
Commission considers best.
   (G)   The Commission shall establish procedures that the Commission must
follow in acquiring and disposing of property.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.05  HISTORIC DISTRICTS, CONSERVATION DISTRICTS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Recommendations for establishment.  All recommendations for the
establishment of a historic district shall be in the form of a written report
and must be based on the criteria outlined in this section. A recommendation
for establishing a historic district may be initiated from either of the
following two sources:
      (1)   Based on its survey, the Commission may draw and submit historic
district  maps for City Council approval; or
      (2)   Owners of property in fee simple wishing to establish a historic
district which includes their property may petition the Commission to consider
drawing and submitting a map or maps of the property to the City Council for
its approval. The Commission may establish in its rules criteria to be met
before it considers a petition.
   (B)   Conservation districts.  The Commission may recommend, and the City
Council may provide that the establishment of a historic district shall occur
in two phases. During the first phase, which continues for a period of three
years from the date the ordinance is adopted, a certificate of appropriateness
is required for the following activities: the demolition of any building; the
moving of any building; and any new construction of a principal building or
accessory building or structure subject to view from a public way.
      (1)   At the expiration of the initial three-year period, the first phase
of a conservation district continues and the second phase does not become
effective if a majority of the property owners in the district object to the
Commission, in writing, to the requirement that certificates of appropriateness
be issued for the following activities:
         (a)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of historic
buildings by additions, construction, alteration or maintenance involving
exterior color changes;
         (b)   A change in walls and fences or construction of walls and
fences, if along public ways; and
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration or maintenance involving exterior color change.
      (2)   The objections of a majority of the property owners must be
received by the Commission not earlier than 180 days or later than 60 days
before the third anniversary of the adoption of the ordinance.
   (C)   Commission preparation of historic district maps.  In order to
establish a historic district, the Commission shall first prepare a map
describing the district in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The map shall be based on a survey conducted by the Commission
which identifies historic buildings, structures and sites located within the
city;
      (2)   A district may be limited to the boundaries of a property
containing a single building, structure or site; and
      (3)   The map may divide the district into primary and secondary areas as
follows:
         (a)   Primary area.  The principal area of historic and architectural
significance; or
         (b)   Secondary area.  An area adjacent to a primary area which has a
visual relationship to the primary area and could affect the preservation of
the primary area. The purpose of designating a secondary area is to assure its
compatibility and harmony with an adjacent primary area.
   (D)   Map; classification.
      (1)   The Commission shall classify and designate on the map all
buildings, structures and sites within each historic district described on the
map. Buildings, structures and sites shall be classified as historic or non-
historic. Historic buildings, structures and sites must possess identified
historic or architectural merit of a degree warranting their preservation. The
Commission shall further classify and designate all buildings and structures
within a proposed historic district as follows:
         (a)   Outstanding;
         (b)   Notable; or
         (c)   Contributing.
      (2)   Non-historic buildings, structures and sites are those not
classified on the map as historic, in lieu of other classifications, the
Commission may devise its own system of further classification of historic
buildings, structures and sites.
   (E)   City Council approval of maps of historic districts.  Before a
historic district is established and the building classifications take effect,
the map setting forth the district’s boundaries and building classifications
must be submitted to and approved in an ordinance by the City Council.
   (F)   Recording the fact of designation.  The map establishing boundaries of
a historic district may be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.06  INTERIM PROTECTION.
   (A)   When submitting a map to the City Council under §
97.05, the Commission may declare one or more buildings or structures that are
classified and designated as historic on the map to be under interim
protection.
   (B)   Not more than two working days after declaring a building, structure
or site to be under interim protection under this section, the Commission
shall, by personal delivery or first class mail, provide the owner or occupant
of the building, structure or site with a written notice of the declaration.
The written notice must:
      (1)   Cite the authority of the Commission to put the building, structure
or site under interim protection under this section;
      (2)   Explain the effect of putting the building, structure or site under
interim protection; and
      (3)   Indicate that the interim protection is temporary.
   (C)   A building or structure put under interim protection under division
(A) above remains under interim protection until the map is:
      (1)   Submitted to; and
      (2)   Approved in an ordinance or rejected by the City Council.
   (D)   While a building, structure or site is under interim protection under
this section:
      (1)   The building, structure or site may not be demolished or moved; and
      (2)   The exterior appearance of the building, structure or site may not
be conspicuously changed by:
         (a)   Addition;
         (b)   Reconstruction; or
         (c)   Alteration.
   (E)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the period of interim protection, provided the proposed change
meets the criteria for considering effect of actions on historic buildings in §
97.07(D) of this chapter and any proposed preservation guidelines prepared for
the building, structure or site, but the certificate of appropriateness shall
have no effect, and no action may be taken pursuant thereto, unless the map
including the building, structure or site is approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.07  CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Certificates of appropriateness (COA) required.  A certificate of
appropriateness must be issued by the Commission before a permit is issued for,
or work is begun on, any of the following:
      (1)   Within all areas of a historic district:
         (a)   The demolition of any building or structure;
         (b)   The moving of any building or structure;
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of any historic
building or any part of or appurtenance to a building, including walls, fences,
light fixtures, steps, paving and signs by additions, reconstruction,
alteration or maintenance involving exterior color change if cited by
individual ordinance; or
         (d)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
      (2)   Within a primary area of a historic district:
         (a)   A change in walls and fences, or the construction of walls and
fences along public ways; or
         (b)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration and/or maintenance involving exterior color change.
      (3)   Within a conservation district:
         (a)   The moving of any building;
         (b)   The demolition of any building; or
         (c)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
   (B)   Application for certificates of appropriateness.  An application for a
certificate of appropriateness shall be made in the office of the Commission or
its designee on forms provided by that office. All applications shall be
subject to the rules and requirements established by the Commission. Rules may
include, but are not limited to, filing deadlines and application requirements
such as sketches, drawings, photographs, descriptions or other information
which the Commission requires to make a decision.
   (C)   Approval or denial of certificates of appropriateness.  The Commission
may approve or deny certificates of appropriateness for any actions covered by
this chapter. If an application for a certificate of appropriateness is
approved by the Commission, or is not acted on by the Commission within 60 days
after it is filed, a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued. The
Commission may grant an extension of the 30-day limit if the applicant agrees
to it. The Commission must report its findings and the reasons for its decision
in written form, and supply the applicant with a copy of its report. A copy of
the certificate of appropriateness must be submitted with the application for a
building or demolition permit; no building or demolition permit shall be issued
unless a copy of the certificate of appropriateness is provided by the
applicant with the application.
   (D)   Criteria for considering effect of actions on historic buildings.  The
Commission, in considering the appropriateness of any reconstruction,
alteration, maintenance or moving of a historic building, structure, site or
any part of or appurtenance to the building or structure, including walls,
fences, light fixtures, steps, paving and signs shall require that the work be
done in a manner that will preserve the historical and architectural character
of the building, structure or appurtenance. In considering historic and
architectural character, the Commission shall consider, among other things, the
following:
      (1)   Purposes of this chapter;
      (2)   Historical and architectural value and significance of the
building, structure, site or appurtenance;
      (3)   Compatibility and significance of additions, alterations, details,
materials or other non-original elements which may be of a different style and
construction date than the original;
      (4)   The texture, material, color, style and detailing of the building,
structure, site or appurtenance;
      (5)   The continued preservation and protection of original or otherwise
significant structure, material and ornamentation;
      (6)   The relationship of buildings, structures, appurtenances or
architectural features similar to one within the same historic district,
including for primary areas, visual compatibility as defined in §
97.09(B); and
      (7)   The position of the building or structure in relation to the
street, public right-of-way and to other buildings and structures.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.08  STAFF APPROVALS.
   (A)   The Commission may authorize the staff of the Commission, on behalf of
the Commission, to grant or deny an application for a certificate of
appropriateness.
   (B)   The Commission shall specify by rule the types of applications for
certificates of appropriateness that the staff of the Commission is authorized
to grant or deny. The staff may not be authorized to grant or deny an
application for a certificate of appropriateness for the following:
      (1)   The demolition of a building, structure or site;
      (2)   The moving of a building or structure;
      (3)   The construction of an addition to a building or structure; or
      (4)   The construction of a new building or structure.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.09  VISUAL COMPATIBILITY.
   (A)   For new construction, contemporary design and non-historic buildings.
To preserve and encourage the integrity of historic buildings, structures,
sites, monuments, streetscapes and neighborhoods and to ensure their
compatibility with any new work, the construction of a new building or
structure, and the moving, reconstruction, alteration, color change, major
maintenance or repair conspicuously affecting the external appearance of any
non-historic building, structure or appurtenance within the primary area must
be generally of a design, form, proportion, mass, configuration, building
material, texture, color and location on a lot compatible with other buildings
in the historic district and with places to which it is visually related.
   (B)   Criteria for considering visual compatibility within historic primary
areas.  Within the primary area of a historic district, new buildings,
structures, as well as buildings, structures and appurtenances that are moved,
reconstructed, materially altered, repaired or changed in color, must be
visually compatible with buildings and places to which they are visually
related generally in terms of the following visual compatibility factors:
      (1)   Height.  The height of proposed buildings must be visually
compatible with adjacent buildings;
      (2)   Proportion of building’s front facade.  The relationship of the
width of a building to the height of the front elevation must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related;
      (3)   Proportion of openings within the facility.  The relationship of
the width of the windows to the height of windows in a building must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually
related;
      (4)   Relationship of solids to voids in front facades.  The relationship
of solids to voids in the front facade of a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related;
      (5)   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets.  The relationship of a
building to the open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related;
      (6)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections.  The relationship of
entrances and porch projections of a building to sidewalks must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related;
      (7)   Relationship of materials, texture and color.  The relationship of
the materials, texture and color of the facade of a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related;
      (8)   Roof shapes.  The roof shape of a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related;
      (9)   Wall of continuity.  Appurtenances of a building or site, such as
walls, wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses and building facades,
must form cohesive walls of enclosure along the street, if necessary to ensure
visual compatibility of the building to the buildings and places to which it is
visually related;
      (10)   Scale of the building.  The size of a building and the building
mass of a building in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches
and balconies must be visually compatible with the buildings and places to
which it is visually related; and
      (11)   Directional expression of front elevation.  A building must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually
related in its directional character, including vertical character, horizontal
character or non-directional character.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.10  PRESERVATION OF HISTORICAL AND ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER UPON ALTERATION
OR RELOCATION MANDATED.
   (A)   A historic building or structure or any part of or appurtenance to a
building or structure, including stone walls, fences, light fixtures, steps,
paving and signs may be moved, reconstructed, altered or maintained only in a
manner that will preserve the historical and architectural character of the
building, structure or appurtenance.
   (B)   A historic building may be relocated to another site only if it is
shown that preservation on its current site is inconsistent with division (A)
above.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.11  APPEAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to preserve historic buildings that are
important to the education, culture, traditions and economic values of the city
and to afford the city, historical organizations, property owners and other
interested persons the opportunity to acquire or to arrange for the
preservation of these buildings.
   (B)   If the Commission denies the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness for the demolition of a building, structure or site, a
demolition permit may be issued by other agencies and a building, structure or
site may be demolished, but only after the property owner has demonstrated to
the Commission that the historic building, structure or site is incapable of
earning an economic return on its value, as appraised by a licensed real estate
appraiser.
   (C)   Notice of the proposed demolition must be given for a period fixed by
the Commission, based on the Commission’s classification on the approved map,
but not less than 60 days nor more than one year. Notice must be posted on the
premises of the building or structure proposed for demolition in a location
clearly visible from the street. In addition, notice must be published in a
newspaper of general local circulation at least three times before demolition,
with the first publication not more than 15 days after the application for a
permit to demolish is filed, and the final publication at least 15 days before
the date of the permit.
   (D)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the notice period under division (C) above. If the certificate of
appropriateness is approved, a demolition permit shall be issued without
further delay, and demolition may proceed.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.12  MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Maintenance, generally.  Historic buildings, structures and sites
shall be maintained to meet the applicable requirements established under state
statutes for buildings generally so as to prevent the loss of historic material
and the deterioration of important character defining details and features.
   (B)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance.  Nothing in this section shall be
construed so as to prevent the ordinary repairs and maintenance of any
building, structure or site, provided that the repairs or maintenance do not
result in a conspicuous change in the design, form, proportion, mass,
configuration, building material, texture, color, location or external visual
appearance of any structure, or part thereof.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.13  RELATIONSHIP WITH ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of the historic district
are subject to regulations for both the zoning district and the historic
district.
   (B)   If there is a conflict between the requirements of the zoning district
and the requirements of the historic district, the more restrictive
requirements shall apply.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.14  PAINT COLORS.
   In the ordinance approving the establishment of a historic district, the
city may exclude changes in paint colors from the activities requiring the
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness under §
97.07 of this chapter before a permit may be issued or work begun.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.15  INTERESTED PARTIES.
   (A)   An interested party (as defined in §
97.02) has a private right of action to enforce and prevent violation of
provisions of this chapter or an ordinance adopted by the city under this
chapter, and with respect to any building, structure or site within a historic
district, and has the right to restrain, enjoin or enforce by restraining order
or injunction, temporarily or permanently, any person from violating a
provision of this chapter or an ordinance adopted under this chapter.
   (B)   The interested party does not have to allege or prove irreparable harm
or injury to any person or property to obtain relief under this section.
   (C)   The interested party bringing an action under this section does not
have to post a bond unless the court, after a hearing, determines that a bond
should be required in the interest of justice.
   (D)   The interested party that brings an action under this section is not
liable to any person for damages resulting from bringing or prosecuting the
action unless the action was brought without good faith or without a reasonable
belief that a provision of this chapter, or an ordinance adopted by a unit
under this chapter had been or was about to be violated.
   (E)   An interested party who obtains a favorable judgment in an action
under this section may recover reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs from
the person against whom judgment was rendered.
   (F)   An action arising under this section must be brought in the Circuit or
Superior Court of the county in which the historic district lies and no change
of venue from the county shall be allowed in the action.
   (G)   The remedy provided in this section is in addition to other remedies
that may be available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 97.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer or otherwise, who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as follows, for each
offense:
      (1)   Not less than $10 nor more than $2,500 for demolition; and
      (2)   Not less than $10 nor more than $300 for all other offenses.
   (B)   Each day of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be a
separate offense.
   (C)   The erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
demolition, color change, moving or maintenance of any building, structure or
appurtenance which is begun, continued or maintained contrary to any provisions
of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and in violation of this
chapter and unlawful. The city may institute a suit for injunction in the
Circuit Court or Superior Court of the county to restrain any person or
government unit from violating any provision of this chapter and to cause the
violation to be prevented, abated or removed. That action may also be
instituted by any property owner who is adversely affected by the violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (E)   Any person or party aggrieved by a decision or action taken by the
Commission shall be entitled to a judicial review hereof in accordance with
I.C. 4-21.5-5.
(Ord. 10-12, passed 7-12-2010)
CHAPTER 98:  JUNK AND JUNKYARDS
Section
Abandoned and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
98.01   Definition
   
98.02   Declared nuisance outside of lawfully operated junkyards
   
98.03   Storage in open restricted
   
98.04   Notice to remove from public property; removal by city
   
98.05   Notice to remove from private property; removal by city
   
98.06   Removal of obstruction from public right-of-way
ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 98.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE.  Any vehicle which is or was equipped with a
motor, and shall also mean any portion of a motor vehicle which is detached
from the main portion of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 13-16)  (Ord. passed 3-25-1968)
§ 98.02  DECLARED NUISANCE OUTSIDE OF LAWFULLY OPERATED JUNKYARDS.
   Because of the danger to health from vermin and insects and rodents and
because of the danger to the safety of children attracted by junked, abandoned,
wrecked, disassembled or inoperable and/or unlicensed motor vehicles, these
vehicles are hereby declared to be a nuisance, except as provided in §
98.03.
(Prior Code, § 13-17)  (Ord. passed 3-25-1968)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.03  STORAGE IN OPEN RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or allow to remain in the open
public or private property within the corporate limits of the city, any
disassembled, or inoperable and/or unlicensed, or any junked, wrecked or
abandoned motor vehicle for a period of three or more days on public property,
or for a period of five or more days on private property, unless it is in
connection with an automotive located in a properly zoned area. The provisions
of this section shall not apply to auto salvage yards and/or junkyards that are
duly operated and licensed by the state and the city, and are operated and
located in a properly zoned area.
(Prior Code, § 13-18)  (Ord. passed 3-25-1968)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.04  NOTICE TO REMOVE FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY; REMOVAL BY CITY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall find any vehicle
described in §
98.03 placed or stored in the open upon public property within the corporate
limits of the city, he or she shall issue an order to the owner of the vehicle
to remove the vehicle within three days. Notice of the order shall be placed
upon the vehicle. If the vehicle is not removed within three days pursuant to
the order and notice, the Chief of Police shall cause the vehicle to be removed
by a junk or salvage yard or wrecker service to be paid by the owner of the
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 13-19)  (Ord. passed 3-25-1968)
§ 98.05  NOTICE TO REMOVE FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY; REMOVAL BY CITY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police shall find any vehicle described in §
98.03 placed or stored in the open upon private property within the corporate
limits of the city, he or she shall issue an order to the owner of the vehicle
to remove the vehicle within ten days. Notice of the order shall be placed upon
the vehicle and copies of the notice shall be served upon any adult occupying
the real estate on which the vehicle is located and also upon the owner of the
vehicle, if his or her name and whereabouts be known. If no occupant of the
real estate or owner of the vehicle can be found, a notice affixed to any
building on the real estate shall constitute notice to the owner and occupant
of the real estate and to the owner of the vehicle. If there is no building on
the real estate, the notice may be affixed elsewhere on the real estate. If the
vehicle is not removed with ten days pursuant to the order and notice, and if
the order is not stayed by the issuing officer pursuant to a written request
showing good cause for a permanent or temporary stay, the Chief of Police shall
cause the vehicle to be removed by a junk or salvage yard or wrecker service,
the cost and expense of the removal by the junk or salvage yard or wrecker
service to be paid by the owner of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 13-20)  (Ord. passed 3-25-1968)
§ 98.06  REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTION FROM PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The Chief of Police for the City Police Department, or his or her designees,
may order the immediate removal of any structure, vehicle, property or object
(hereinafter an “obstruction”) that is situated or lies within the public
right-of-way which impedes the normal flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic,
or poses a threat to public health, safety or welfare. If the owner of the
obstruction fails or refuses to remove the obstruction, the Chief of Police, or
his or her designees may immediately remove and dispose of the obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 13-21)
CHAPTER 99:  MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
99.01   Definition
   
99.02   Location of homes restricted
   
99.03   Removing wheels; alterations
§ 99.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME.  Any unit used for living or sleeping purposes, and which is
equipped with wheels, or a similar device, used for the purpose of transporting
the unit from place to place, whether by motive power or other means, and which
power includes any unit, whether the wheels have been removed therefrom or not,
and which specifically includes any vehicle mounted on wheels or equipped so
that the same may be mounted on wheels and propelled either by its own power or
by other power-driven vehicles to which it may be attached.
(Prior Code, § 15-1)  (Ord. passed 12-8-1952)
§ 99.02  LOCATION OF HOMES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, park, stand, locate,
keep or maintain any mobile home used for human habitation upon any lot, piece
or parcel of ground within the incorporated city, except in a mobile home park
for more than two weeks in any one period of 30 days.
   (B)   The provisions of this section, however, shall not apply to the
parking of mobile homes in a regular mobile home park within the city.
(Prior Code, § 15-2)  (Ord. passed 12-8-1952)
§ 99.03  REMOVING WHEELS; ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning and operating a mobile home
located in a mobile home park or elsewhere, in the city, to remove or cause to
have removed the wheels or any similar transporting device from the mobile
home, or to otherwise permanently fix it to the ground in a manner which would
prevent the ready removal of the mobile home without first obtaining a permit
so to do from the Building Inspector of the city.
   (B)   Any alteration to any mobile home, as above set forth, shall be
construed as removing it from the requirements of this chapter and converting
it into a dwelling, and it shall thereupon be subject to the requirements of
the zoning regulations and Building Code of the city governing the erection and
construction of residential buildings.
(Prior Code, § 15-3)  (Ord. passed 12-8-1952)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 100:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
100.01   Speed limit, parking in Abner Longley Park and Lebanon Memorial Park
   
100.02   Recreation center
   
100.03   Use of metal detectors prohibited
Board of Parks and Recreation
   
100.15   Created; composition; terms of office
   
100.16   Officers of the Board
   
100.17   Powers and duties generally; budget
   
100.18   Responsibility for operation and maintenance of parks and swimming
pool; budget
   
100.19   Approval of additions to public parks
   
100.20   Appointment of Director of Parks and Recreation
Rules and Regulations for Parks and Other Recreational Areas
   
100.35   Purpose
   
100.36   Parks and recreational areas defined
   
100.37   Park hours
   
100.38   Prohibited persons
   
100.39   Remedies
 
   
100.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Department of Public Parks, see §
33.70
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 100.01  SPEED LIMIT, PARKING IN ABNER LONGLEY PARK AND LEBANON MEMORIAL PARK.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on a
public road within Abner Longley Park or Lebanon Memorial Park in the city at a
speed in excess of 15 mph.
      (2)   All vehicular and motorized traffic shall be restricted to public
ways designated within each of the parks’ boundaries.
      (3)   Each park will be closed to vehicle and motorized traffic by the
public at 11:00 p.m. each evening.
      (4)   The parking of motorized vehicles in each park will be restricted
to designated areas only, unless special arrangements are made for parking with
the Director of Parks and Recreation or special projects coordinator of the
city.
   (B)   This section shall in no way abridge or impair the right of the Board
of Parks and Recreation of the city to designate what roads within the parks
shall be open to the public, and also to close the roads entirely to public
traffic during the winter months, or any other times that the Board may decide
is in the public interest.
   (C)   The city shall erect appropriate signs warning drivers of vehicles of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 18-1)  Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.02  RECREATION CENTER.
   There is hereby established a recreation center to be acquired, equipped,
maintained and operated by a Board of Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 18-3)  (Ord. passed 5-25-1953)
§ 100.03  USE OF METAL DETECTORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The use of metal detectors and any digging device in connection
therewith in the municipal parks of the city is expressly prohibited.
   (B)   Any violation of this particular section shall be treated as a city
ordinance violation punishable in accordance with the provisions outlined in §
100.99(B).
(Prior Code, § 18-4)  (Ord. 88-4, passed 6-27-1988)  Penalty, see §
100.99
BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 100.15  CREATED; COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall be composed of:
         (a)   Four members appointed by the Mayor on the basis of their
interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation. No more than two members
shall be of the same political party;
         (b)   One ex officio member who is a member of and appointed by the
Board of School Trustees; and
         (c)   One ex officio member who is a member of and appointed by the
Library District Board.
      (2)   The Library District and School Boards shall fill any vacancies of
its ex officio member. Ex officio Board members have all the rights of regular
members, including the right to vote.
   (B)   (1)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of the members
appointed shall be:
         (a)   One member for a term of one year;
         (b)   One member for a term of two years;
         (c)   One member for a term of three years; and
         (d)   One member for a term of four years.
      (2)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the Mayor
for a term of four years. All terms expire on the first Monday in January but a
member shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed. If an
appointment for a new term is not made by the Mayor by the first Monday in
April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy occurs, the Mayor
shall appoint a new member for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 18-15)  (Ord. 84-25, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 100.16  OFFICERS OF THE BOARD.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a President
and Vice President. The Vice President shall have authority to act as the
President of the Board during the absence or disability of the President. The
Board may select a Secretary either from within or without its own membership.
(Prior Code, § 18-15.1)  (Ord. 84-25, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 100.17  POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY; BUDGET.
   (A)   The Board shall have all powers necessary to develop, maintain,
preserve and operate all sites, facilities, programs and property, both real
and personal as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions or
facilities in the city. Acquisitions and/or additions to the public parks of
the city shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Works. Ultimate
disposition of park property, after its acquisition, shall remain the
responsibility of the City Board of Parks and Recreation, it being the intent
of the Park Board, the Board of Works and the fiscal body of the city that
sound fiscal management is exercised with public funds and property. The Park
Board shall have those powers and duties specifically set forth in I.C. 36-10-
3-11, as if specifically set forth herein, excepting therefrom, the power of
eminent domain which is specifically excluded in this adoption of I.C. 36-10-3.
   (B)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of city government as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
   (C)   So much of those portions of I.C. 36-10-3-20, 36-10-3-21 and 36-10-3-
22 pertaining to non-reverting capital funds and cumulative building funds, and
the taxing powers, if any, given by I.C. 36-10-3-27 are specifically omitted
and excepted from the city’s adoption of I.C. 36-10-3 as the city has
previously adopted Ordinance 84-21 allowing the receipting of proceeds and
miscellaneous receipts into the special programs appropriation in the Parks
Department and the same ordinance permits disbursement pursuant to the
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 18-15.2)  (Ord. 86-19, passed 10-13-1986)
§ 100.18  RESPONSIBILITY FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PARKS AND SWIMMING
POOL; BUDGET.
   (A)   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall have the responsibility for
operation and maintenance of:
      (1)   Lebanon Memorial Park;
      (2)   The Seashore Swimming Pool;
      (3)   Abner H. Longley Park;
      (4)   Ruth Berkshire Arboretum;
      (5)   Lasley Memorial Park;
      (6)   Hot Pond; and
      (7)   Kiddie Park.
   (B)   The budgets of these parks shall be transferred to the Department of
Public Parks and the budgets shall become the budget of the Department of
Public Parks of the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-16)  (Ord. 76-6, passed 4-26-1976; Ord. 84-25, passed 12-10-
1984)
§ 100.19  APPROVAL OF ADDITIONS TO PUBLIC PARKS.
   Additions to the public parks of the city shall be subject to the approval
of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 18-19)  (Ord. 76-6, passed 4-26-1976)
§ 100.20  APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   The Director of Parks and Recreation shall be appointed by the Mayor and
Common Council from applicants interviewed and recommended by the Board of
Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 18-20)  (Ord. 76-6, passed 4-26-1976)
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PARKS AND OTHER RECREATIONAL AREAS
§ 100.35  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish reasonable and responsible
rules for those individuals who use the parks and other recreational areas
owned and operated by the city. This subchapter is necessary to ensure that
residents fully enjoy leisure and recreational activities available in city
parks and other recreational areas and to protect health and safety of persons
using the parks and other recreational areas.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 100.36  PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS DEFINED.
   The words PARKS AND OTHER RECREATIONAL AREAS shall include, but not be
limited to, any lands, buildings, structures, waters, parks, trails, drives and
roadways in the city that are under the jurisdiction and control of the city
and the City Parks and Recreation Department.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 100.37  PARK HOURS.
   No person shall enter or remain in any park or other recreational area in
the city after the park or recreational area is closed to the public. Parks and
other recreational areas in the city open to the public at dawn and close at
11:00 p.m. or at the conclusion of park approved activities, whichever is
later.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 2-8-2010)  Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.38  PROHIBITED PERSONS.
   Individuals required by state law to register on the state sex offender
registry published and disseminated by the State Criminal Justice Institute
(“sex offenders”) are prohibited from all parks and other recreational areas of
the city. This prohibition applies to any individuals convicted of a crime
requiring registration after the adoption of this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 2-8-2010)  Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.39  REMEDIES.
   Employees of the city or other agents authorized by the City Council may, in
the name of the city, bring actions in the City Court or the Circuit or
Superior Courts of the county for violations and enforcement of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 100.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §
100.01(A) shall amount to a city ordinance violation and upon conviction of
same, the violator shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $25. Each day of the
violation shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 18-1)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
100.38 shall be fined $100 for the first offense and $200 for each offense
thereafter. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day during
which, or on which, a violation occurs or continues to occur. An ordinance
violation shall be accompanied by and include an order, either orally or in
writing, prohibiting the offender from entering parks and other recreational
areas. A sex offender who knowingly enters parks and other recreational areas,
after receiving an order, may be subject to prosecution for trespass.
(Ord. 1-69, passed 4-14-1969; Ord. 86-3, passed 5-28-1986; Ord. 10-02, passed
2-8-2010)
CHAPTER 101:  STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General Provisions
   
101.001   Unlawful deposits
   
101.002   Cleaning of streets, alleys and sidewalks
   
101.003   Occupants, owners required to clear ice and snow from sidewalks
   
101.004   Discharge of rain, melted snow upon sidewalks prohibited
   
101.005   Public auctions on streets and sidewalks prohibited; exception
   
101.006   Use of streets, sidewalks and adjacent spaces for advertising and the
like
   
101.007   Rights-of-way
Curb and Sidewalk Construction and Repair
   
101.020   Sidewalk repairs
   
101.021   Disposition of dirt and old material; barricades and warning lights
   
101.022   Tampering with grade stakes on curbs
Permit
   
101.035   Required; application contents and accompanying documents
   
101.036   Issuance
Excavations
   
101.050   Compliance with subchapter required
   
101.051   Permit; required
   
101.052   Permit; petition; bond
   
101.053   Permit; surface restoration fees
   
101.054   Permit; issuance
   
101.055   Notice upon completion of work; filling
   
101.056   Barricades; danger lights
   
101.057   Backfilling
Street Grades
   
101.070   City to establish markings
   
101.071   Benchmark to be base
   
101.072   Marking method
   
101.073   Permanent markers required
   
101.074   Record of markings
Street Numbering
   
101.085   System established
   
101.086   Style, pattern and material of numbers
   
101.087   Assignment of numbers; supervision of numbering
Shade Trees
   
101.100   Trimming requirement
   
101.101   Damaging, destroying generally
Thoroughfare Plan Code
   
101.115   Short title
   
101.116   Maps of thoroughfares
   
101.117   Drawing of cross sections
   
101.118   Designation of thoroughfares
   
101.119   Policies and directives
   
101.120   Thoroughfare Fund
   
101.121   Authority for procedure
   
101.122   Procedure
   
101.123   Priority of thoroughfare improvements
   
101.124   Continuing authority of City Plan Commission
   
101.125   Amendments
   
101.126   Thoroughfare plan on file
   
101.127   Responsibility of Clerk-Treasurer
 
   
101.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 101.001  UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit, permit to be deposited or permit to fall
from any vehicle any garbage, refuse or natural debris upon any public street,
alley, walk or public place in the city, except that, this section shall not be
construed to prohibit the placing of garbage, refuse and natural debris in a
container, or to prohibit the placing of natural debris and refuse too bulky to
place in a container, on or immediately adjacent to a street or alley
preparatory to having the material collected and disposed of by the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-1)  Penalty, see §
101.999
§ 101.002  CLEANING OF STREETS, ALLEYS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Notice to adjoining owner or occupant.  Whenever in the opinion of the
Street Commissioner any street, alley or sidewalk adjoining any lot, parcel or
tract of ground within the corporate limits of the city shall become filthy or
impeded with rubbish or in any manner need cleaning up it shall be the duty of
the Street Commissioner to post in that street or alley or on that sidewalk a
written or printed notice in the following form:
      To the owner or occupant of adjoining property                          
     you are hereby notified to clean up the                              
adjoining property owned or occupied by you within                        hours
from the date of the posting of this notice.
      Posted this                day of                  at                    
   o’clock               .
                                                                              
           
                                             Street Commissioner
   (B)   Removal by city; collection of costs.  Should the owner or occupant
refuse to clean up the street, alley or sidewalk within the time mentioned in
the notice it shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to at once proceed
to clean up the street, alley or sidewalk and keep a careful account of the
cost thereof and report the same to a careful account of the cost thereof and
report the same to the Common Council and the cost of cleaning the street or
alley or sidewalk as aforesaid shall be collected off of the owner or occupant
of the property in any court of competent jurisdiction; a notice posted, as
hereinbefore mentioned, shall be all the notice required to authorize the
Street Commissioner to clean the street or alley or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 23-2)  (Ord. passed 3-20-1884)  Penalty, see §
101.999
§ 101.003  OCCUPANTS, OWNERS REQUIRED TO CLEAR ICE AND SNOW FROM SIDEWALKS.
   The occupant, or owner if there is no occupant, of each and every building
or lot within the city, fronting or bordering upon any street, shall clean the
sidewalk in front of the building or lot of all snow or ice before the hour of
9:00 a.m. of each day, and keep the same clear of snow and ice.
(Prior Code, § 23-3)  Penalty, see §
101.999
§ 101.004  DISCHARGE OF RAIN, MELTED SNOW UPON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building in the city
to collect the water from rain or melted snow which falls upon the roof of the
building, into a gutter or trough and cast it, or allow it to be discharged,
upon any public sidewalk in the city or to allow or permit water to run or drip
upon any sidewalk in the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-4)  Penalty, see §
101.999
§ 101.005  PUBLIC AUCTIONS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any goods or property of any
kind or description, household goods excepted, at any public auction on the
streets or street corners or on the sidewalks within the corporate limits of
the city, except as authorized by the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 23-6)  Penalty, see §
101.999
§ 101.006  USE OF STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND ADJACENT SPACES FOR ADVERTISING AND
THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner, agent or occupant
of any business room, building or premises in the city, to construct, erect or
maintain any sign, signpost or sign support, bulletin board or other device for
advertising purposes or a bicycle rack upon the streets or sidewalks of the
city, except as authorized by the provisions of this code.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow the erection, placement
and maintenance of any sign, display, advertising material or any object
between the curb and the sidewalk of any street located within the city, except
as authorized by the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 23-7)  Penalty, see §
101.999
Cross-reference:
   Posting of bills and the like restricted, see §
90.01
§ 101.007  RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Any individual, company, or utility that desires to place any item,
structure or physical object (including wires, cables, conduit, pipes, junction
boxes, relays or other items) within any designated public right-of-way, public
easement, thoroughfare, or property owned by the city (“public right-of-way”),
must apply for a right-of-way permit for such work with the Lebanon Department
of Planning and Zoning Administration (“department”).
   (B)   The department may establish reasonable fees for the permit
application.
   (C)   The permit application must contain and include sufficient drawings
and specifications detailing the work to be conducted and materials to be
installed in the public rights-of-way.
   (D)   The permit application may only be approved after presentation to, and
the approval of, the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC).
   (E)   The TAC or department may provide that a bond be posted by the
applicant in sufficient amount to provide for any reconstruction or damage to
other structures in the public right-of-way.
   (F)   The permit application shall contain an acknowledgment that the
applicant is financially responsible to the city or any other entity that
incurs damage as a result of applicant’s work or installation in the public
right-of-way.
   (G)   Any individual who performs work in a public right-of-way, or installs
any structure or material in a public right-of-way without first obtaining a
permit, or performs work outside the scope of any permit issued, as delineated
above, shall be fined in an amount of $300 per day of violation for failure to
comply with any of the terms or conditions of this section.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 11-26-2012)
CURB AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 101.020  SIDEWALK REPAIRS.
   (A)   The owner of any lot, part of lot or parcel of land within the city
abutting upon any street or alley shall keep the sidewalk in repair in front of
his or her respective lot, part of lot or parcel of land, and it shall be the
duty of the Building Inspector of the city to have the sidewalk kept in repair.
   (B)   When the Building Inspector finds any sidewalk out of repair, he or
she shall give the owner of the lot, part of lot or parcel of land in front of
which the sidewalk is out of repair, notice in writing to repair the same
within three days.
   (C)   If the owner shall fail or refuse to repair the sidewalk within the
time specified in the notice or if the owner is a nonresident of the city, the
Building Inspector shall proceed to repair the same.
   (D)   When repairs have been made by the Building Inspector as provided in
division (C) of this section, the costs and expenses thereof shall be assessed
against the lot, part of lot or parcel of land abutting on the sidewalk where
the repairs are made, and the owner shall be given ten days’ notice in writing,
if he or she is a resident of the city, to be served by the police, and if he
or she is not a resident of the city, then by registered letter, of the fact
that the repairs have been made, the amount of the expenses thereof, that the
same has been assessed against his or her lot, part of lot or parcel of land
and that he or she shall have the right to appear before the Common Council at
the time and place to be specified in the notice and make any objection that he
or she may have to the assessment. Upon hearing the objections, if any be made,
the Common Council may alter or amend the assessment as justice may require or
may confirm the same as originally made, and the same shall be a lien upon the
lot, part of lot or parcel of land from the date.
   (E)   If the assessment is not paid within 20 days from the date of it
confirmation, then the city shall proceed to foreclose the same in any court of
competent jurisdiction as a mortgage is foreclosed, and in the action shall
recover, in addition to the assessment, 6% interest thereon from the date of
its confirmation, the costs of the proceedings and a reasonable fee for its
attorney.
(Prior Code, § 23-31)  (Ord. passed 7-27-1896; Ord. 80-14, passed 8-25-1980)
§ 101.021  DISPOSITION OF DIRT AND OLD MATERIAL; BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   When any curb or sidewalk shall be built, repaired, relaid or replaced, all
material removed from the excavation resulting therefrom shall be immediately
removed from the site if it is not to be reused as fill, and material removed
shall be hauled away and disposed of by the person doing the work. All openings
must be maintained by the person licensed to make the opening, and proper
barricades and danger lights shall be maintained by the person until the
excavation has been restored.
(Prior Code, § 23-32)  (Ord. 80-14, passed 8-25-1980)  Penalty, see §
101.999
§ 101.022  TAMPERING WITH GRADE STAKES ON CURBS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to tamper with or in any
way interfere with any grade stake for any curb or to deface or disturb any
curb while in the process of construction.
(Prior Code, § 23-33)  Penalty, see §
101.999
PERMIT
§ 101.035  REQUIRED; APPLICATION CONTENTS AND ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Any person desiring or required to build, replace or repair any curb
or sidewalk within the city, before doing or commencing any construction work
thereon, except where curbs or sidewalks are to be laid in accordance with the
provisions of special improvement resolutions, must file an application for a
permit therefor with the Building Inspector, which application shall be signed
by the owner of the abutting property where the curb is to be built, replaced
or repaired, or the owner’s agent.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be accompanied by a site plan,
drawn to scale, showing the location of the curb and sidewalk, and the location
of the streets, alleys, driveways, sidewalks, roadways and curbs in the
vicinity of the proposed construction.
(Prior Code, § 23-40)  (Ord. 80-14, passed 8-25-1980)
§ 101.036  ISSUANCE.
   The Building Inspector shall issue a permit required by this subchapter when
it has been determined that the proposed work conforms in all respects to the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-41)  (Ord. 80-14, passed 8-25-1980)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 101.050  COMPLIANCE WITH SUBCHAPTER REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do, cause or permit to be done any
digging, cutting or excavating into or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or
public place or into or through any pavement thereon in the city except in
accordance with the rules, regulations and provisions contained in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-53)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1910)  Penalty, see §
101.999
§ 101.051  PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   No opening or excavation, as described in §
101.050 shall be made until a permit therefor shall have been duly given by the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 23-54)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1910; Ord. 80-14, passed 8-25-1980)
§ 101.052  PERMIT; PETITION; BOND.
   Any person desiring a permit to make openings or excavations as required by
§
101.051 shall file with the City Clerk-Treasurer a petition which shall
definitely state the location of the proposed opening and the purpose of the
same, together with a bond payable to the city, in a sum of not less than $100
and not more than $5,000 as the Clerk-Treasurer may designate, which bond shall
be conditioned for the saving of the city harmless from any loss, cost or
damage by reason of the proposed work; and the same shall be done in all
respects in conformity with the requirements of this subchapter and other
ordinances of the city; provided, however, that a single or continuing bond may
be given to embrace all work of the petitioner.
(Prior Code, § 23-55)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1910; Ord. passed 8-23-1926; Ord.
passed 8-10-1936; Ord. 80-14, passed 8-25-1980)
§ 101.053  PERMIT; SURFACE RESTORATION FEES.
   Any person desiring a permit required by §
101.051 shall pay to the city, as a permit fee for the replacing and repairing
of the pavement or street surface necessary to be taken up, as follows.
   (A)   A flat inspection fee to the City Building Inspector of $100 and the
permit shall be issued when the fee is paid in full; provided, however, that an
additional charge of $5 shall be assessed for a continuous cut in a street or
alley for each subsequent crossing of an alley or street perpendicular to the
original cut in process.
   (B)   All asphalt or cement pavement replaced by the Street Commissioner
shall be charged at the local selling price. The minimum charge for each
excavation shall be $15.
   (C)   The above permit fees shall not be charged to any city-owned utility
or department.
(Prior Code, § 23-56)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1910; Ord. passed 8-23-1926; Ord.
passed 8-10-1936; Ord. 80-14, passed 8-25-1980; Ord. 84-4, passed 2-27-1984;
Ord. 01-05, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 101.054  PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Generally.  It shall be the duty of the City Clerk-Treasurer, upon the
filing of the petition for the permit required by §
101.051, the approval of the bond and the payment of the money, as aforesaid,
to issue to the petitioner a permit to make an excavation and do the work, and
the permit shall describe the kind and location of the same. The permit shall
only be issued after the petition has been reviewed by the Building Inspector
and approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   Restricted during certain period.  No permit shall be issued for the
digging into or excavation of any paved street, alley or sidewalk or any public
place between December 1 of any year and the succeeding April 1, except by
special permission of the Board of Public Works and Safety, which permission
shall be based upon a petition filed as above stated; provided, however, that
in an emergency in connection with utility service, the utility involved may be
permitted to proceed before a permit is issued by informing the Building
Inspector of the circumstances.
   (C)   Restricted during construction or guarantee period.
      (1)   In the event any person shall desire to cut into or excavate any
pavement, street, alley or sidewalk during the construction thereof and before
the same is accepted by the city officials or in cases where the improvement is
subject to guarantee by any contractor or individual securing the permit who
has constructed the same, no petition for opening, excavation or cutting into
the street, alley or sidewalk shall be granted during the construction thereof,
or during the guarantee period, unless the petitioner first secures the consent
of the contractor or individual securing the permit who is constructing the
same, or who has guaranteed the same. The consent must be in writing in which
the contractor or individual securing the permit waives any and all rights he
or she may have to object to the opening or excavation, and also in the consent
the contractor or individual securing the permit shall agree that he or she
will not hold the city liable to him or her in any way and that the consent
will in no way impair or lessen his or her obligations to repair or rebuild the
street, alley or sidewalk, or in any way change his or her obligations or
guarantee; in these cases, any person desiring to petition for the entering
into the improvement shall first obtain a consent and agreement from any
Building Inspector, who will then grant a permit upon the compliance with the
other terms of this subchapter.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector, either in person or
by deputy, to determine the proper location for the water, gas, sewer or other
connections or conduits to be made, locate all sewer slants and taps and
supervise the replacing of the excavations and pavement and see that all work
in connection therewith is made and completed in a workmanlike manner, all dirt
is hauled away by the petitioner, and clean sand or pea gravel is replaced in
the excavation and settled by tamping or working with water.
(Prior Code, § 23-57)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1910; Ord. 80-14, passed 8-25-1980)
§ 101.055  NOTICE UPON COMPLETION OF WORK; FILLING.
   After the purpose of an excavation for which a permit is required under this
subchapter has been accomplished, the petitioner who has obtained the permit
shall give notice to the Building Inspector that the opening is ready for the
filling and pavement to be replaced; and the contractor or individual securing
the permit shall proceed to replace the same as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 23-59)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1910; Ord. 80-14, passed 8-25-1980)
§ 101.056  BARRICADES; DANGER LIGHTS.
   All proper barricades and danger lights shall be maintained by the party to
whom a permit required under this subchapter was issued until the opening has
been repaired and replaced by the petitioner or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 23-60)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1910; Ord. 80-14, passed 8-25-1980)
§ 101.057  BACKFILLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPROVED MATERIAL.  Clean sand or pea gravel to contain no more than 10%
dirt by volume.
      PROPER AUTHORITIES.  The Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   All cuts in paved streets must be filled with approved fill as before
stated and topped out with four inches of concrete and two inches of hot-mix
blacktop or six inches of concrete in cement streets.
(Prior Code, § 23-61)  (Ord. passed 6-10-1957; Ord. 80-14, passed 8-25-1980)
STREET GRADES
§ 101.070  CITY TO ESTABLISH MARKINGS.
   The city shall designate some suitable and permanent point upon the
courthouse in the city to calculate and ascertain the exact elevation and
distance of the point above the level of the sea and permanently mark on that
point by marks which cannot be erased or destroyed its distance and elevation
above the level of the sea and record the location and description of the point
and its distance and elevation above the level of the sea and the markings
thereon in the proper records in the office of the Street Commissioner, which
point, when calculated, ascertained and properly marked and recorded, shall be
taken as a benchmark for the grades of all streets and alleys within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 23-73)
§ 101.071  BENCHMARK TO BE BASE.
   When the grade of any street or alley within the city is hereafter
established by the Common Council, the benchmark described in §
101.070 shall be the base from which the grade shall be calculated and
described.
(Prior Code, § 23-74)
§ 101.072  MARKING METHOD.
   When the grade of any street within the city shall be duly and legally
established by the Common Council of the city, the grade thereof shall be
marked as follows. Wherever the street intersects with any other street in the
city, two lines shall be drawn, one line being drawn parallel with the eight
feet south from the north line of the intersection, and one line being drawn
parallel with and eight feet east of the west line of the intersection, and at
the point of the intersection of the two lines, a concrete, stone or iron
monument shall be placed and the top of the monument shall be set at the true
grade of the street at the intersection of the centerlines of the intersecting
streets.
(Prior Code, § 23-75)
§ 101.073  PERMANENT MARKERS REQUIRED.
   Benchmarkers shall be established at convenient points and wherever
possible. The elevation of the tops of the benchmarkers from the monuments
provided for in §
101.072 and the distance and location therefrom shall be ascertained and the
distances, elevations and locations shall be permanently marked on the
benchmarks by marks which cannot be erased or destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 23-76)
§ 101.074  RECORD OF MARKINGS.
   An accurate description of the location of the monuments provided for in §
101.072 and the markings thereon, if any; an accurate description of the
benchmarks and their locations and elevations from the monuments and the
markings thereon; and the elevation of the benchmark provided for in §
101.070, from the monuments, shall all be recorded in the proper records of the
office of the Street Commissioner. A book of grades, markings and profiles of
the different streets shall also be properly kept by the Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 23-77)
STREET NUMBERING
§ 101.085  SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   The houses and buildings within the corporate limits of the city shall be
numbered as follows:
      Beginning on Main Street at the intersection of Meridian Street and
numbering from thence east and west the houses and buildings fronting north or
south giving 20 feet for each whole number and numbering alternately on either
side of the street, making the numbers on the south side of each street odd and
the numbers on the north side of each street even, and giving 100 numbers for
each block, and the houses and buildings on all streets running parallel with
Main Street shall be numbered in the same manner east and west from Meridian
Street; beginning on Meridian Street at the intersection of Main Street and
numbering from thence north and south the houses and buildings fronting east or
west, giving 20 feet for each whole number, numbering alternately on either
side of the street, making the numbers on the west side of the street even and
the numbers on the east side of the street odd, and giving 100 numbers to each
block and the houses and buildings on all streets running parallel with
Meridian Street shall be numbered in the same manner north and south from Main
Street.
(Prior Code, § 23-89)  (Ord. passed 5-26-1899)
§ 101.086  STYLE, PATTERN AND MATERIAL OF NUMBERS.
   The numbers for the houses and buildings of the city shall be of a style,
pattern and material as the Common Council may designate.
(Prior Code, § 23-90)  (Ord. passed 5-26-1899)
§ 101.087  ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS; SUPERVISION OF NUMBERING.
   The numbers of the various houses and buildings within the city on the
various streets shall be assigned by the City Civil Engineer and put up under
his or her direction and supervision. In the absence of a city civil engineer,
the numbering of street addresses shall be administered by the Planning and
Zoning Administration Department of the city, in consultation with the GIS and
Public Safety Departments of the city and the Boone County Sheriff’s Office.
(Prior Code, § 23-91)  (Ord. passed 5-26-1899; Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015)
SHADE TREES
§ 101.100  TRIMMING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   All shade trees in the city six inches in diameter and two feet above
the ground, which are situated between any sidewalk and curb in any street in
the city, or which are situated upon any property in the city so near the line
of the street that the limbs or boughs thereof shall overhang the sidewalks of
the street, shall be trimmed by the owner of the lot adjoining the street
wherein the shade trees may be situated or of the lot upon which the shade
trees shall be situated so that the lowest foliage thereof shall be at least
ten feet above the surface of the street, and shall be trimmed in accordance
with the directions of the Street Commissioner. These trees shall be trimmed
once each year if deemed necessary by the Street Commissioner not later than
May 1 of each year.
   (B)   Any person owning any real estate in the city, where any shade trees
are growing in the street as provided in division (A) of this section, who
shall fail to keep the shade trees trimmed as required in division (A) above
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
101.999, and upon failure to so trim the trees as provided in division (A) of
this section, after five days’ notice from the Street Commissioner, the Street
Commissioner shall trim, or cause the trees to be trimmed as provided in the
division, and the costs, charges and expenses thereof shall be charged against
the owner of the property and shall be collected by suit before the Mayor of
the city for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 23-103)  (Ord. passed 2-13-1906)  Penalty, see §
101.999
§ 101.101  DAMAGING, DESTROYING GENERALLY.
   No person shall break, cut or otherwise destroy any shade or ornamental tree
upon any sidewalk or elsewhere without first obtaining permission of the Common
Council.
(Prior Code, § 23-104)  (Ord. passed 12-22-1875)  Penalty, see §
101.999
THOROUGHFARE PLAN CODE
§ 101.115  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter, as amended, shall be known and may be referred to as the
“Thoroughfare Plan Code of Lebanon.”
(Prior Code, § 23-118)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.116  MAPS OF THOROUGHFARES.
   (A)   The official thoroughfare plan of the city and its environs is shown
on the maps described in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following plans, as amended, which reflect the policy of the city
with respect to the present and future development of thoroughfares, are hereby
incorporated into and made a part of this subchapter:
      (1)   Comprehensive Development Plan, City of Lebanon, Indiana, 1974,
Sheet 1 of 2; and
      (2)   Comprehensive Development Plan, Planning Area, Lebanon, Indiana,
1974, Sheet 2 of 2.
   (C)   Notations, references, indications and other details shown on the
thoroughfare plan portions of the comprehensive development plan maps are as
much a part of this subchapter as if they were fully described in the text of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-119)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.117  DRAWING OF CROSS SECTIONS.
   A drawing entitled “Typical Thoroughfare Cross Sections, Lebanon, Indiana,”
showing cross sections for streets as designated on the comprehensive
development plan maps, is set forth in the Specifications of the City of
Lebanon, and is hereby incorporated by reference in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 23-120)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.118  DESIGNATION OF THOROUGHFARES.
   The thoroughfares are classified as to width and type in accordance with
their functions as a part of the thoroughfare system, and are designated as
arterial, feeder and residential streets as shown on the comprehensive
development plan maps. These streets are to be provided with the right-of-way
widths shown on the plan maps as set out in §
101.119 of this subchapter and are to be improved as required by the provisions
of subdivision regulations, providing for the control of the subdivision of
land.
(Prior Code, § 23-121)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.119  POLICIES AND DIRECTIVES.
   (A)   Opening or widening of streets.  Whenever a street designated in the
thoroughfare plan is to be platted as a part of the subdivision of land, the
right-of-way width shall conform to the policies and specified designations and
indications in the thoroughfare plan; provided, that, where a street borders a
tract of land to be subdivided, the owner of the land shall be required to plat
only one-half of the right-of-way width designated for the street, measured at
90 degrees to the centerline thereof.
   (B)   Location of streets.  Wherever the locations of streets are indicated
in the thoroughfare plan as following existing roads or streets, or section or
half-section lines, or other established property lines, they shall conform to
those locations; however, streets lying wholly within a subdivision, and not
designated as following an existing road or a section line, may be varied in
their alignment when the variance promotes the plan of a neighborhood
development unit in accordance with good site planning principles, and if the
alignment provides for the continuity of traffic movement. Streets which follow
irregular alignment, or indicate revised alignments, or are not referenced to
established lines, shall follow in a general manner the alignment shown on the
thoroughfare plan maps. Their alignment shall be subject to detailed surveys
which may be made by the city, the City Plan Commission or other public
agencies, or by the owners of land to be subdivided. The surveys shall be
subject to the approval of the City Plan Commission prior to the acquisition of
land or the filing of subdivision plans affecting the streets.
   (C)   Consideration of public agencies.  After adoption of the official
thoroughfare plan and this subchapter, the Common Council and other governing
bodies within the jurisdiction of the Commission shall be guided by and give
consideration to the general policy and pattern of development set out in the
official thoroughfare plan in the authorization, construction, alteration or
abandonment of public highways and structures.
   (D)   Issuance of permits.  In the case of permits authorized by the Common
Council of the city for the erection or alteration of structures and other
improvements, the permit shall be issued only if the proposed street and
thoroughfare rights-of-way as set forth in the official thoroughfare plan will
be protected from encroachment and, for planning and zoning purposes, the
proposed street and thoroughfare right-of-way lines will be considered as the
front line of lots and tracts bordering the streets and thoroughfares.
   (E)   Street improvement program.  The Board of Public Works and Safety is
authorized to use funds available for street improvement purposes to
participate with the owners of lands abutting streets within the city in the
improvement of those streets in accordance with the requirements of the Board
of Public Works and Safety and the standards for street improvements
established in the subdivision regulations. For any participation project, the
Board shall be governed by the following policies.
      (1)   All alley and street intersections will be paved at city expense
and the cost of the work is not to be considered as a part of the city’s share
of other street improvements.
      (2)   The cost of grading and excavating in connection with the
improvement of alleys and streets in existence on September 9, 1974, is to be
considered a city expense and not as a part of the city’s share of other street
and alley improvements.
      (3)   The cost of grading and excavating in connection with the
improvement of streets and alleys dedicated after September 9, 1974, is not to
be considered a part of the improvement cost in which the city can participate.
      (4)   The city may participate to the extent of 50% of the cost of
improving an alley located in the business district as shown on the city zone
map. The city shall not participate in the cost of improving alleys other than
those indicated above.
      (5)   The amount of the participation by the city in the cost of street
improvements is indicated below as a percentage of the total of the cost, as
may be modified by preceding statements, in accordance with the street
designation and width of surface to be improved, which may include curb and
gutter:
 
Width of Improved Surfaces Street or Thoroughfare Designation
                           Arterial Feeder Residential
24 to 28 feet              50%      40%    30%
29 to 31 feet              60%      50%    40%
32 to 35 feet              70%      60%    50%
36 feet or wider           80%      70%    60%
 
(Prior Code, § 23-122)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.120  THOROUGHFARE FUND.
   The Common Council of the city may levy a tax annually of not to exceed
$0.15 on each $100 of taxable property within the city for the purpose of a
Thoroughfare Fund, which, when collected, shall be kept separate from the other
funds of the city and shall be a continuing Fund to be drawn upon by the City
Board of Public Works and Safety for work done under, or in furtherance of, or
in carrying out a part of the official thoroughfare plan.
(Prior Code, § 23-123)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.121  AUTHORITY FOR PROCEDURE.
   In the carrying out of any project under the official thoroughfare plan, the
Board of Public Works and Safety shall proceed, and shall have authority under
the provisions of Chapter 44, Acts of the General Assembly of Indiana for 1931,
and all acts amendatory thereof, and the method of procedure shall comply with
the provisions of an Act of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana
entitled “An act concerning municipal corporations,” approved March 6, 1905,
and all acts amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto, except that the
remonstrance provisions for resident freeholders shall not apply; provided,
further, that if it shall be determined that property shall be assessed within
a special benefit district, the Board shall determine the boundaries of the
district.
(Prior Code, § 23-124)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.122  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Board of Public Works and Safety in the carrying out of any
project under the official thoroughfare plan adopted by this subchapter shall
consider and determine what proportionate part of the cost of the project, or
of any separate phase of improvement thereunder, shall be paid by the city out
of the Thoroughfare Fund, including any increase of damages ordered by any
court on appeal, as benefit to the city at large, and, at the time, shall
determine the amount, if any, of the total cost of any phase of improvement
under the project, including damages awarded by the Board, which shall be
assessed as benefits upon the real estate within a special benefit district.
   (B)   In the event the cost of acquisition and the benefits assessed against
the city, by reason of any the project, shall, at any time, be in excess of the
amount of money then standing to the credit of the Thoroughfare Fund of the
city, the city shall have the power, and the Common Council is hereby
authorized by ordinance to issue a bond in a sum sufficient to pay for the
benefit, or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary, the same to be issued
and sold in the same form and manner, and with the same rate of interest and
with the maturities as are by law provided for the issuance and sale of bonds
of the city for the general purposes thereof, and the proceeds of the sale of
the bonds shall be deposited in, and credited to, the Thoroughfare Fund, to be
used in the payment for the cost of acquisition and the benefits assessed
against the city at large and any increased damages which may be ordered paid
by any court on appeal.
(Prior Code, § 23-125)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.123  PRIORITY OF THOROUGHFARE IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Plan Commission may recommend to the City Board of Public Works and
Safety the order in which improvements made pursuant to the provisions of this
section and to be paid for in part out of the Thoroughfare Fund shall be
undertaken and carried out; and when so made, the Board of Public Works and
Safety shall not start or commence, by resolution or otherwise, any work,
appropriation or improvement pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
other than in the order designated by recommendation.
(Prior Code, § 23-126)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.124  CONTINUING AUTHORITY OF CITY PLAN COMMISSION.
   Subsequent to the adoption of the official thoroughfare plan and the passage
of Ordinance 74-16, the City Plan Commission may:
   (A)   Determine lines for new, extended, widened or narrowed thoroughfares
in any portion of its jurisdiction; and
   (B)   Certify to the Common Council the amended or additional plan under the
same procedures as established for the certification and approval of the
official thoroughfare plan.
(Prior Code, § 23-127)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.125  AMENDMENTS.
   In addition to the provisions of §
101.124 of this subchapter, amendments may be initiated as follows:
   (A)   The Common Council may direct the City Plan Commission to prepare an
amendment, as desired, and submit it to public hearing within 60 days after
formal written request by the Common Council; and
   (B)   The owners of 50% or more of the area of property abutting upon a
street may also petition the City Plan Commission requesting an amendment to
the official thoroughfare plan.
(Prior Code, § 23-128)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.126  THOROUGHFARE PLAN ON FILE.
   The maps, charts, plans, reports and ordinances which comprise the
thoroughfare plan code are on file in the Department of Planning and
Development and the office of the Clerk-Treasurer in the city municipal
building, and are available for public inspection during all regular office
hours.
(Prior Code, § 23-129)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.127  RESPONSIBILITY OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Director of Planning and Development and the Clerk-Treasurer of the city
are hereby ordered and directed to keep on file, for public inspection during
all regular office hours two copies of the thoroughfare plan code including
maps, charts, reports and ordinances referred to herein.
(Prior Code, § 23-130)  (Ord. 74-16, passed 9-9-1974)
§ 101.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall also be the duty of the Street Commissioner, should any owner
or occupant of any lot, parcel or tract of ground neglect to clean up the
street, alley or sidewalk after the posting of the notice by the city, to file
charges for the violation of §
101.002. Upon conviction, the owner or occupant shall be punished as provided
in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 23-2)  (Ord. passed 3-20-1884)
CHAPTER 102:  WELLS
Section
Private Wells
   
102.01   Registration
   
102.02   Inspection
   
102.03   Well digging
PRIVATE WELLS
§ 102.01  REGISTRATION.
   Every owner or occupant of real estate within the corporate limits of the
city, or real estate from which there is a lateral sewer into the sewerage
system, shall, on a form provided by the Board of Public Works and Safety
report the existence of a well to the Clerk-Treasurer. The information
furnished on the form by the owner or occupant shall include, among other
items, the name of the owner and occupant of the real estate, the location on
the real estate of the well, the size of the well pipe, the size (voltage,
amperage and horsepower where ascertainable) of the well pump motor and the
purpose for which the well water is used by the owner, occupant or others.
(Prior Code, § 26.5-11)  (Ord. 79-5, passed 3-12-1979)
§ 102.02  INSPECTION.
   The Board may direct the Superintendent, Inspector or any other employee to
enter upon private property for the purpose of inspecting to determine the
existence of private wells, to oversee or to direct the installation of
metering or timing devices and to read the meters and devices.
(Prior Code, § 26.5-12)  (Ord. 79-5, passed 3-12-1979)
§ 102.03  WELL DIGGING.
   A person shall not hereafter dig or drive a well within the city limits
without first making application therefor to a City Building Department, which
application shall be on a form approved by the Board and showing all pertinent
data regarding size and flow. The application shall be signed by both the
installer of the well (the contractor or other person doing the work) and the
owner or his or her agent (other than the installer). The failure to file an
application shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 26.5-13)  (Ord. 79-5, passed 3-12-1979)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   PEDDLERS, HAWKERS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   TAXICABS AND PUBLIC CARRIERS
      
114.   SALE OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
      
115.   MASSAGE THERAPY CLINICS, MASSAGE THERAPY SCHOOLS AND RELATED ENTERPRISES
CHAPTER 110:  LICENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses, generally
   
110.02   Economic development alcoholic beverage permits
§ 110.01  LICENSES, GENERALLY.
   All businesses inside the city limits shall register with the city and
receive a business license. All incoming businesses inside the city limits are
required to receive an inspection by the City Fire Department before opening
for business.
§ 110.02  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE PERMITS.
   (A)   In order to be eligible for an economic development alcohol permit
within the city and under I.C. 7.1-3-20-16.8, a proprietor (and/or applicant or
holder) must enter into formal written commitments pursuant to this section.
   (B)   The commitments, the adequacy of which are in the sole discretion of
the city, may relate to the character or type of business that will be
conducted on the permitted premise, and should be designed to ensure that the
proprietor operates a restaurant that is consistent with the economic
development goals and visions of the city. Each set of commitments may be
unique to each separate proprietor, restaurant, or circumstances.
   (C)   The commitments must be formally approved by both the Mayor’s office
and the Lebanon Redevelopment Commission prior to submission of any application
for an economic development alcohol permit within the city.
   (D)   A permit issued in the city under I.C. 7.1-3-20-16.8 may not be
renewed or permit ownership transferred, including if the area is no longer
designated an economic development area, an area needing redevelopment, or a
redevelopment district, unless the proprietor enters into new commitments with
the city pursuant to this section.
   (E)   Commitments entered under this section are binding on the permit
holder, and continuing compliance with such commitments constitutes a condition
to operating under an economic development alcohol permit with the city.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-27-2016)
CHAPTER 111:  AMUSEMENTS
Section
Theaters and Public Halls
   
111.001   Licenses; required
   
111.002   Terms; fees
   
111.003   Exceptions
Circuses and Menageries
   
111.015   Required
   
111.016   Application
   
111.017   Fee
   
111.018   Revocation
Carnivals and Fairs
   
111.030   Required
   
111.031   Application
   
111.032   Fee
   
111.033   Revocation
Coin-Operated Amusement Devices
   
111.045   Generally
   
111.046   Proximity to schools restricted
   
111.047   Exemption
Pool, Billiard Tables and the Like
   
111.060   Generally
   
111.061   Operation restrictions
Skating Rinks
   
111.075   Generally
 
   
111.999   Penalty
THEATERS AND PUBLIC HALLS
§ 111.001  LICENSES; REQUIRED.
   The owner or manager of every theater or public hall used for the purpose of
giving public exhibitions for which an admittance fee is charged shall procure
a license therefor which shall be signed by the Mayor of the city and
countersigned by the Clerk-Treasurer under the seal of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-1)  (Ord. passed 10-12-1885)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.002  TERMS; FEES.
   All licenses granted under the provisions of §
111.001 shall be for a term of one year and the license fee for the license
shall be $25. The license fee shall be paid by January 31 of each year to the
Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall, upon receipt of the payment, issue
to the party named therein the license provided for in §
111.001.
(Prior Code, § 4-2)  (Ord. passed 10-12-1885; Ord. 83-14, passed 5-23-1983) 
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.003  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
111.001 shall not be construed to apply to skating rinks, ball alleys or games
of any kind whatsoever, nor to any temporary structure in which any exhibition
may be held.
(Prior Code, § 4-3)  (Ord. passed 10-12-1885)
CIRCUSES AND MENAGERIES
§ 111.015  LICENSES; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit any circus, menagerie, show,
exhibition or performance in the city without first having procured and paid
for a license so to do as provided in §§
111.016 through
111.018.
(Prior Code, § 4-16)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1939)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.016  APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to obtain a license for any circus, menagerie, show,
exhibition or performance shall make application to the City Clerk-Treasurer,
stating in his or her application the location in the city wherein or whereon
the circus or menagerie shall be given.
(Prior Code, § 4-17)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1939)
§ 111.017  FEE.
   The fee for a license for a circus, menagerie, show, exhibition or
performance shall be $50 per day. No license shall be issued until the full
amount of the license fee has been paid.
(Prior Code, § 4-18)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1939; Ord. 83-14, passed 5-23-1983)
§ 111.018  REVOCATION.
   The issuance of a circus, menagerie, show, exhibition or performance license
shall in nowise interfere with the power of the Board of Public Works and
Safety to revoke the same, in accordance with the provisions of the statutes of
the state, upon hearing and proof that any show, exhibition or performance is
grossly immoral, degrading or indecent.
(Prior Code, § 4-19)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1939)
CARNIVALS AND FAIRS
§ 111.030  LICENSES; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit any carnival or fair in the
city without first having procured and paid for a license so to do as provided
in §§
111.031 through
111.033.
(Prior Code, § 4-20)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1939)  Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.031  APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to obtain a license for any carnival or fair to be given
shall make application to the City Clerk-Treasurer stating in his or her
application the location in the city wherein or whereon the carnival or fair
shall be given.
(Prior Code, § 4-21)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1939)
§ 111.032  FEE.
   (A)   The fee for a carnival or fair license shall be $25 per day, with a
minimum fee of $75 to be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer at the time
application for a license is made.
   (B)   No license shall be issued until the minimum fee of $75 has been paid.
   (C)   The $25 fee for each day in excess of three days shall be paid at
least 24 hours in advance of the day of operation of the carnival or fair.
(Prior Code, § 4-22)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1939; Ord. 83-14, passed 5-23-1983)
§ 111.033  REVOCATION.
   The issuance of a carnival or fair license shall in nowise interfere with
the power of the Board of Public Works and Safety to revoke the same in
accordance with the provisions of the statutes of the state, upon hearing and
proof that any carnival or fair is grossly immoral, degrading or indecent.
(Prior Code, § 4-23)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1939)
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 111.045  GENERALLY.
   No permit or fee is required. No illegal gaming shall be allowed.
§ 111.046  PROXIMITY TO SCHOOLS RESTRICTED.
   No machine, apparatus, table or device shall be displayed or exhibited or
used for public patronage in any school building.
(Prior Code, § 4-40)  (Ord. 5-1941, passed 3-24-1941)
§ 111.047  EXEMPTION.
   This subchapter shall not be understood to include machines or apparatus
used in the recording of musical records or other musical devices.
(Prior Code, § 4-41)  (Ord. 5-1941, passed 3-24-1941)
POOL, BILLIARD TABLES AND THE LIKE
§ 111.060  GENERALLY.
   No permit or fee is required. No illegal gaming shall be allowed.
§ 111.061  OPERATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Rooms.  No table, alley, gallery or other device shall be operated in
any room having screens, blinds or obstructions which shall obscure or obstruct
the view into any room or rooms from the street adjacent thereto.
   (B)   Profanity.  No profane or obscene language shall be allowed to be
used.
   (C)   Intoxicated persons.  No intoxicated person shall be allowed in the
room or rooms where any of the games are operated.
   (D)   Hours.  None of the games shall be permitted or operated between the
hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m., nor on any part of Sunday of any week.
No soda water, bottled goods or soft drinks of any kind shall be sold or
distributed in any place of business operating where pool tables, billiard
tables, card tables, shooting galleries or dice boxes are operated.
(Prior Code, § 4-57)  (Ord. passed 4-11-1932)
SKATING RINKS
§ 111.075  GENERALLY.
   No permit or fee is required. No illegal gaming shall be allowed.
§ 111.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone violating any provision of §§
111.001 through
111.003 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or imprisonment of
not more than 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 4-4)
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty levied under §§
111.045 through 111.048, upon the conviction of any offender for the violation
of §§
111.045 through 111.048 or any provision thereof, the court shall order the
Chief of Police of the city to seize any machine, apparatus, table or device
licensed under §§
111.045 through 111.048, and involved in the cause, the same not being in
possession of any peace officer of this state, shall order the destruction of
the machine, apparatus, table or device so seized by the Chief of Police of the
city, and the court shall also order the destruction of any machine, apparatus,
table or device as may be in custody of any peace officer of this state and
involved in the cause.
(Prior Code, § 4-42)
(Ord. 5-1941, passed 3-24-1941; Ord. 83-14, passed 5-23-1983)
CHAPTER 112:  PEDDLERS, HAWKERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
House to House Solicitation
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application
   
112.04   Fees
   
112.05   Application form
   
112.06   Prohibited actions
   
112.07   Solicitor to carry and present credentials
   
112.08   License duration, transferability and revocation
   
112.09   License detail
   
112.10   Veterans
   
112.11   Restrictions
   
112.12   Exemptions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
HOUSE TO HOUSE SOLICITATION
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT.  Any solicitor or sponsor on whose behalf one or more individual
solicitors pursue house-to-house or place-to-place activities.
   COMMERCIAL SOLICITOR.  Any person:
      (1)   Who does not operate his or her business and sell his or her
particular property exclusively or regularly from an established and fixed
place or location, store or warehouse in the city;
      (2)   Who regularly operates a business solely by solicitation from
house-to-house, or place-to-place, by means of traveling over the public
streets of the city carrying and selling or offering to sell direct to any
person various kinds of goods or property; or
      (3)   Who carries samples of various goods or property by which he or she
solicits sales of a complete product to be delivered at a subsequent time.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SOLICITOR.  Any person who solicits, induces or accepts
contributions, donations or financial support for any noncommercial activity
including, but not limited to, political, social, charitable or religious
causes by solicitation from house-to-house or place-to-place by means of
traveling over the public streets of the city.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SPONSOR.  Any sponsor of noncommercial solicitors who or which
files an application for a license pursuant to this chapter and including a
request for derivative licenses on behalf of individual solicitors listed in
the application.
   SOLICITOR.  Refers to both commercial and noncommercial solicitors.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)
§ 112.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor to operate in the corporate limits of
the city unless the solicitor shall have first secured a license therefore
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03  APPLICATION.
   The applicant shall make application on the form provided by the City Police
Department and pay the license fee as hereinafter required.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)
§ 112.04  FEES.
   (A)   Each applicant shall pay one of the following:
 
10-day permit  $20 processing fee
120-day permit $90 processing fee
 
   (B)   In addition, each applicant shall pay a $3 license fee for each
individual solicitor conducting activities on its behalf upon making
application for a license pursuant to this chapter. Each applicant is required
to obtain a state police criminal background check no more than two weeks prior
to applying for a solicitors permit. A copy of the background investigation
must be kept on file with the City Police Department during the permit period.
Solicitor permits are not transferrable. Upon denial of any application, the
license fees, but not the processing fee, shall be refunded to the applicant.
   (C)   Each noncommercial sponsor and solicitor shall be required to complete
an application to be kept on file by the City Police Department for the time
period that the noncommercial solicitation shall be conducted. Noncommercial
solicitors shall not be required to pay a processing fee nor purchase a
license.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)
§ 112.05  APPLICATION FORM.
   The application for a license required by this chapter shall be sworn to, by
or on behalf of the applicant, made to the City Police Department, and shall
contain such information as it might require, including the following
information:
   (A)   The telephone number and address of, and name under which, the
business is to be conducted or the organization on behalf of which the
noncommercial solicitation is to be conducted;
   (B)   The name and address of the applicant;
   (C)   A description of the business to be conducted, goods or property to be
sold, or purpose of the noncommercial solicitation; and
   (D)   The duration of the business or noncommercial solicitation to be
conducted.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)
§ 112.06  PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor to commit any of the following acts:
   (A)   Solicit from any person after that person has stated that he or she is
not interested in the solicitation, does not wish to be solicited or does not
wish to buy from or contribute to the cause for which the solicitation is being
conducted;
   (B)   Solicit contributions by misrepresentation of his or her name,
occupation, relation to the cause solicited for, or perpetrate any fraud or
deception in connection with any solicitation for any cause;
   (C)   Solicit funds by promising a person solicited that his or her funds
will, directly or indirectly, be used to purchase tickets for any event which
tickets will be given to another person for charitable purposes, unless the
donor gives his or her written approval for the use and the tickets are in fact
given to another person for a benevolent cause and the value of the tickets is
not reflected in any financial report to increase the gross or net income of
the solicitation;
   (D)   Solicit at any location where a sign has been posted which indicates
that the inhabitants do not wish to be solicited; and
   (E)   Refuse or fail to comply with any requirements established for a
solicitor by this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  SOLICITOR TO CARRY AND PRESENT CREDENTIALS.
   No person shall engage in a direct and in-person solicitation under a
license granted pursuant to this chapter unless each person shall have in his
or her possession:
   (A)   A valid license issued pursuant to this chapter; and
   (B)   One of the following:
      (1)   A valid driver’s license;
      (2)   A non-driver’s identification card issued by the State Commissioner
of Motor Vehicles; or
      (3)   Three pieces of identification, credentials or other materials
sufficient to identify the solicitor as the licensee.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)
§ 112.08  LICENSE DURATION, TRANSFERABILITY AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The term of a license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be for the
duration period stated in the license permit described in §
112.04.
   (B)   No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable.
   (C)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked or suspended
by the City Police Chief for any violation of this chapter. The holder of any
license revoked or suspended may obtain, by appeal, a hearing before the City
Council. Processing and license fees are not refundable in the event of a
license revocation.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)
§ 112.09  LICENSE DETAIL.
   (A)   The City Police Department may refuse to issue a license hereunder
only if it finds that:
      (1)   The applicant has violated this chapter within two years prior to
the application;
      (2)   The applicant falsifies any information on the application; or
      (3)   The applicant is found to have been convicted of a felony or any
action constituting an offense against the person under I.C. 35-42, an offense
against property under I.C. 35-43 or an offense against public health, order
and decency under I.C. 35-45.
   (B)   Before issuing any license pursuant to this chapter, an agent
appointed by the City Police Chief shall make an investigation as deemed
appropriate to determine whether the license shall be issued.
   (C)   The City Police Chief shall make a determination within seven days of
the date of application. No license shall be issued prior to the close of the
seventh day following receipt of the application.
   (D)   An applicant denied a license hereunder by the City Police Chief may
obtain, by appeal of a denial, a hearing before the City Council.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)
§ 112.10  VETERANS.
   Veterans described and meeting the qualifications and obtaining the license
pursuant to I.C. 25-25-2-1 shall not have to pay a processing or license fee
hereunder. All other portions of this chapter are and shall be fully applicable
to veterans.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)
§ 112.11  RESTRICTIONS.
   Door-to-door or place-to-place solicitations shall not be conducted before
9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)
§ 112.12  EXEMPTIONS.
   The license requirements of this chapter shall not apply to noncommercial
solicitors on behalf of a noncommercial sponsor which is the city or any public
or private school which residents or citizens of the city attend.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $50 per
solicitor per day.
(Ord. 2011-24, passed 11-16-2011)
CHAPTER 113:  TAXICABS AND PUBLIC CARRIERS
Section
Owner’s Licenses
   
113.01   Required
   
113.02   Fees
   
113.03   Insurance prerequisite to issuance
   
113.04   Suspension and revocation
   
113.05   Term
Driver’s License
   
113.20   Required
   
113.21   Applicant qualifications
   
113.22   Applications
   
113.23   Fee; issuance
   
113.24   Unlawful to drive without in possession
   
113.25   Replacement of lost or destroyed cards
   
113.26   Transferability
   
113.27   Suspension or revocation
   
113.28   Term
OWNER’S LICENSES
§ 113.01  REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle or conveyance for
the transportation of passengers for hire to or from points within the city
without first obtaining a license therefor as provided in §§
113.02 through
113.05 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 26-11)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02  FEES.
   (A)   The following annual license fees shall be paid by the owner for the
license required by §
113.01:
 
For the first taxicab or automobile for hire   $50
Each additional taxicab or automobile for hire $25
 
   (B)   The license fees shall entitle the owner to a taxi stand for each cab
not exceeding two in front of his or her place of business; provided however
that upon the payment of the sum of $5.20 per month for one or more additional
taxicabs or automobiles, the owner, with the consent of the Common Council, may
be entitled to one space at the curb for each additional taxicab or automobile
paid for; provided that additional spaces shall be designated by the Common
Council. The license fee shall be in lieu of, and not in addition to any fees
heretofore established, and except as above provided no fees or other charges
shall be collected by the city; provided, however, that each additional taxicab
or automobile for which no curb space has been paid shall pay the parking meter
fees established by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 26-12)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946; Ord. passed 1-27-1958)
§ 113.03  INSURANCE PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Before any license required by §
113.01 of this subchapter for a public carrier shall be issued, the owner shall
file with the Common Council an insurance policy issued by a reputable
insurance company licensed to do business in the state and approved by the
Common Council, providing insurance coverage for each and every carrier owned,
operated or leased by the applicant.
   (B)   The policy shall provide no less insurance coverage to the owner than
the minimum sums prescribed by the Motor Vehicle Financial Responsibility Law
of the state, and amendments thereto, which minimum sums are adopted herein by
reference and made a part hereof.
   (C)   The policy shall further provide that insolvency or bankruptcy of the
insured shall not release the insurance company from any payment due under the
policy and if by reason of insolvency or bankruptcy an execution on a judgment
against the insured is returnable unsatisfied, the judgment creditor shall have
a right of action against the insurance company to recover the amount of the
judgment to the same extent that the insured would have had to recover against
the company had the insured paid the judgment.
   (D)   The policy shall further provide that it cannot be canceled until 30
days’ notice of the cancellation shall have been given to the Common Council.
   (E)   A penalty shall be imposed or the license revoked if the insurance
lapses or becomes canceled or invalid for any reason.
(Prior Code, § 26-13)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946; Ord. passed 1-27-1958)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 113.04  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Common Council is hereby empowered and authorized to revoke or suspend
the license of any public carrier, required by §
113.01 of this subchapter, found not to be safe, and in good condition with
respect to appearance, cleanliness and mechanical operation. The license, when
so suspended or revoked, shall not be reissued until the public carrier and all
its appurtenances shall be put in fit condition for use by the public and
satisfactory to the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 26-14)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946)
§ 113.05  TERM.
   Licenses required by §
113.01 of this subchapter shall extend for a period of one year, beginning
January 1 of each year, and no license shall be issued for less than one year.
In the case of licenses issued on or after October 1 in each year, one-half of
the fees set out in §
113.02 of this subchapter shall be paid.
(Prior Code, § 26-15)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946; Ord. passed 1-27-1958)
DRIVER’S LICENSE
§ 113.20  REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive a public carrier unless he or she shall have applied
for and obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 26-16)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.21  APPLICANT QUALIFICATIONS.
   Each applicant for a license to drive a public carrier must have a valid
state chauffeur’s license authorized for public transportation for a taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 26-17)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946)
§ 113.22  APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for driver’s licenses shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 26-18)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946)
§ 113.23  FEE; ISSUANCE.
   If an application for a public carrier driver’s license is accepted, the
City Clerk-Treasurer will issue a card bearing the number of the driver’s
license, upon the payment of a fee of $10 for every driver.
(Prior Code, § 26-19)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946)
§ 113.24  UNLAWFUL TO DRIVE WITHOUT IN POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a public carrier upon the
streets of this city without having in his or her possession his or her
driver’s license card.
(Prior Code, § 26-20)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.25  REPLACEMENT OF LOST OR DESTROYED CARDS.
   In the event of the loss or destruction of his or her driver’s license card,
the driver of a public carrier shall immediately report to the Clerk-Treasurer
and may obtain a new card upon paying a fee of $10.
(Prior Code, § 26-21)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946)
§ 113.26  TRANSFERABILITY.
   Public carriers driver’s licenses shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 26-22)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946)
§ 113.27  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Public carrier driver’s licenses may be suspended or revoked at any
time by the Mayor, the Common Council or any City Magistrate.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any officer or Magistrate suspending a public
carrier driver’s license to note thereon the date and cause of the suspension,
and to demand the surrender of the license, and it shall be the duty of the
driver to whom the license was issued to surrender his or her license upon the
demand of the officer or Magistrate suspending.
   (C)   When the license is suspended or revoked by an official other than the
Common Council the driver’s license and a note of the revocation or suspension
shall forthwith be forwarded to the Common Council.
   (D)   The license shall be returned to the driver surrendering it at the
expiration of the period for which the license was suspended. A second
suspension for the same reason, or in any case, a third suspension of a
driver’s license shall revoke the license.
   (E)   No driver whose license has been revoked shall again be licensed as a
public carrier or driver in the city except upon satisfactory showing made to
the Common Council or, in a case where a license has been suspended or revoked
by the Mayor or by a City Magistrate, the approval of the Mayor or the
Magistrate shall be necessary to the restoration or reissue of the license.
   (F)   Whenever a license is suspended or revoked by a City Magistrate,
notice of the revocation with the cause thereof shall be forwarded to the
Common Council. The Common Council shall notify the Police Department whenever
a license is revoked.
(Prior Code, § 26-23)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946)
§ 113.28  TERM.
   Public carrier driver’s licenses shall extend for a period of one year,
beginning January 1 each year. No license will be issued for less than one
year.
(Prior Code, § 26-24)  (Ord. passed 12-9-1946)
CHAPTER 114:  SALE OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
114.01   Sale of synthetic cannabinoids
   
114.02   Burning products containing synthetic cannabinoids
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  SALE OF SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   The sale, marketing or offering for sale of products containing synthetic
cannabinoids (“products”), such as K2, K3 Pep, Kind and Spice or similar
products which contain one or more of the following chemical compounds is
prohibited within the city:
   (A)   (6aR,10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-6a, 7,
10, 10a-tetrahydro- benzo[c]chromen-l-ol, also known as HU-210;
   (B)   1-Pentyl-3-(l-naphthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-018;
   (C)   1-Butyl-3-(l-naphthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-073; and/or
   (D)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative.
(Ord. 2010-20, passed 8-23-2010)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02  BURNING PRODUCTS CONTAINING SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”) may not be burned,
incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned, leased or
controlled by the city.
(Ord. 2010-20, passed 8-23-2010)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4.
   (B)   Accordingly, this chapter shall be enforced by the provisions of I.C.
34-28-5.
(Ord. 2010-20, passed 8-23-2010)
CHAPTER 115:  MASSAGE THERAPY CLINICS, MASSAGE THERAPY SCHOOLS AND RELATED
ENTERPRISES
Section
   
115.01   General definitions
   
115.02   License required
   
115.03   License fees
   
115.04   Operations
   
115.05   Issuance and rejection of applications
   
115.06   Complaints
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01  GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATHHOUSE.  Includes any building, room, place or establishment, other than
a regularly licensed hospital, dispensary, personal exercise and weight
reducing clinic, hotel, rooming house or public lodging house, where members of
the public are provided with baths, regardless whether steam, vapor, water,
sauna or otherwise.
   MASSAGE.  Any means of treating the superficial soft parts of the body for
remedial or hygienic purposes, consisting of rubbing, stroking, kneading or
tapping with the hands or instruments.
   MASSAGE SCHOOLS.  Includes any location defined in the definitions for
bathhouse above, where the act of massage as defined above is either taught or
practiced.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST.  A person who practices, administers or teaches all or
any of the subjects, or methods of treatment contained in the definition for
massage therapy above.
   MASSAGE THERAPY.  The act of body massage, either by mechanical or
electrical apparatus for the purpose of reducing or contouring the body by the
use of oil rub, salt, hot and cold packs, cold showers and cabinet baths.
   MASSAGE THERAPY CLINIC.  Construed and deemed to be any shop, establishment
or place of business where any and all of the methods of massage therapy are
administered or used.
   MASSAGE THERAPY SCHOOL.  Any duly registered massage therapy establishment
where a tuition is charged for the instruction of massage therapy techniques.
(Prior Code, § 14-11)  (Ord. 76-3, passed 4-16-1976)
§ 115.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each person who operates, conducts or maintains a school of massage,
massage therapy clinic or bathhouse shall make application for an operator’s
license to operate the school of massage, massage therapy clinic or bathhouse
with the Clerk-Treasurer of the city on application forms prescribed by him or
her. The application for a license shall contain the following information and
should be individually signed by the applicant:
      (1)   Name of applicant;
      (2)   Residence address of applicant;
      (3)   Business address of applicant;
      (4)   Number of massage tables, shower stalls, bath stalls or other
individual units;
      (5)   The age and citizenship of the applicant, in the case of
individuals, and of the manager or officers in the case of a corporation;
      (6)   The names, addresses, ages, citizenship and designations of each
person connected with the applicant’s establishments;
      (7)   Whether the applicant or its manager or officers have ever been
previously engaged in operating a school of massage, massage therapy clinic or
bathhouse;
      (8)   Whether any applicant, or in the case of a corporation, its
manager, officers, directors or stockholders have ever been convicted of any
act of violence, moral turpitude, sex offense or prior violation of this
chapter;
      (9)   An agreement by the operator permitting inspections; and
      (10)   Type of license being applied for by the applicant.
   (B)   Along with the operator’s application for a license there should be
filed a verified application for a massage therapist license by each individual
who is employed in the establishment. The application should contain the
following information:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Age;
      (3)   Address;
      (4)   Citizenship;
      (5)   Whether convicted of any public offense concerning an act of
violence, moral turpitude, sex offense or prior violation of this chapter; and
      (6)   Nature of work performed.
   (C)   Along with the aforesaid applications for license there should be a
certificate from a duly licensed medical practitioner, on a form prescribed by
the Health Department of the county, certifying that the applicant is free from
communicable diseases and that the examination has been made within 30 days
prior to the application for the license or permit herein sought.
(Prior Code, § 14-12)  (Ord. 76-3, passed 4-16-1976)
§ 115.03  LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Each person, firm, partnership, sole proprietorship or corporation who
operates a massage therapy clinic or bathhouse, or any combination thereof,
shall pay an annual license fee of $500 for an operator’s license. An
operator’s license shall be valid for a period of 12 months from the date of
its issuance and may be renewed for an additional 12-month period upon payment
to the Clerk-Treasurer of $500 operators’s renewal fee provided the same is
accompanied by an affidavit setting forth changes, if any, of circumstances or
conditions that would affect or alter the information contained in the
applicant’s application for an operator’s license and setting forth whether the
applicant is abiding by the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall charge and collect a semiannual fee of $100
for each masseuse and/or massage therapist license. A masseuse and/or massage
therapist license shall be valid for a period of six months from the date of
its issuance and may be renewed upon the payment to the Clerk-Treasurer of the
$100 license fee provided the same is accompanied by a certificate from a duly
licensed medical practitioner in the count, on a form prescribed by the Health
Department of the county, per signed ordinance, certifying that the examination
has been made within ten days prior to the application for the renewal of the
license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 14-13)  (Ord. 76-3, passed 4-16-1976; Ord. 77-16, passed 8-22-
1977)
§ 115.04  OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No school of massage, massage therapy clinic or bathhouse shall be
operated or conducted in, or with a direct opening to living quarters. There
must be a separate entrance to the living quarters, and a separate entrance to
the place of business. No one should use the business quarters for a place of
habitation.
   (B)   All licensed operators or permit holders under this chapter shall show
their license or permits in a visible location in their establishment.
   (C)   All licensees or permit holders shall be subject to all other city
ordinances, county ordinances and state statutes and to the regulations of
various administrative bodies of the city, county and state and violation of
the regulations, ordinances or statutes shall be grounds for revocation of
licenses or permits.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be employed by any licensee
under this chapter or to be within view of any of the services rendered by a
massage therapy clinic or bathhouse who has not reached the age of 21 years.
   (E)   Every school of massage, massage therapy clinic or bathhouse shall be
open for inspection at all times by police officers and duly authorized
representatives of the City Clerk-Treasurer upon the showing of proper
credentials by those persons. It shall be unlawful to deny persons entry to the
establishments.
   (F)   Every school of massage, massage therapy clinic or bathhouse shall be
open no later than 2:00 a.m. Further, the license issued herein shall only
authorize the applicant to offer services on the premises for which the license
is issued and at no other place.
(Prior Code, § 14-14)  (Ord. 76-3, passed 4-16-1976)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05  ISSUANCE AND REJECTION OF APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Qualifications.  The Clerk-Treasurer, before issuing any license
provided for herein, shall investigate the character of the applicant and the
officers, directors and manager of the business if it be a corporation. No
license shall be issued if he or she shall find:
      (1)   Any of the persons named in the application or any employees
thereof are not persons of good moral character;
      (2)   Any of the persons have previously been connected with any school
of massage, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic or bathhouse where the
license therefore has heretofore been revoked or where any of the provisions of
the law applicable to schools of massage, massage therapy clinics or bathhouses
have been violated; or
      (3)   If the premises sought to be so licensed, fail to comply in any
manner with the ordinances and laws applicable thereto.
   (B)   All applicants for a license to engage in the practice of massage
therapy must submit a certificate or affidavit of their respective
qualifications as to schooling, training and experience and where and how
obtained.
(Prior Code, § 14-15)  (Ord. 76-3, passed 4-16-1976)
§ 115.06  COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints of alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter shall
be made in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer. Upon receiving a complaint, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall refer the same to the Board of Public Works and Safety,
who shall conduct a hearing thereon. If the Board of Public Works and Safety
should determine the license shall be revoked, and order of revocation shall
issue to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall thereupon revoke the license without
refund of license or permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 14-16)  (Ord. 76-3, passed 4-16-1976)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall suffer the penalty set out in §
10.99 of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 14-17)  (Ord. 76-3, passed 4-16-1976)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   NOISE
      
132.   FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Keeping of bees restricted
   
130.02   Storage of iceboxes, refrigerators and the like restricted
   
130.03   Fireworks
   
130.04   Playing in or throwing objects across streets and the like
   
130.05   Damaging, destroying public property
   
130.06   Consumption of alcoholic beverages in public places
   
130.07   Littering and vandalism in public areas or on public grounds
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  KEEPING OF BEES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Wherever the term TO KEEP BEES is used in this section, it shall be
construed to include both the owner of the bees and the owner of the property
upon which they are located; provided, that the owner of the property has
knowledge that the bees are located thereon.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to
keep bees, either in hives or colonies, within the city limits in a manner as
to permit the bees to create a disturbance among the inhabitants of the city.
The possession of more than one hive or colony of bees within the city limits
shall be prima facie evidence of a nuisance.
   (C)   Upon complaint to the City Court of the existence of the above
condition, the person permitting the condition to exist shall be cited before
the Court and a hearing shall be held to determine if the facts of the
complaint are true. Upon determining the facts of the complaint to be true, the
City Court shall order the abatement of the condition by the person within five
days.
   (D)   There shall be a minimum lot size of one acre and shall follow setback
requirements of the specific zoning classification for location of bee hives.
(Prior Code, § 17-1)  (Ord. passed 3-25-1957)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  STORAGE OF ICEBOXES, REFRIGERATORS AND THE LIKE RESTRICTED.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for any
person to place, leave or permit any icebox, refrigerator or cabinet for the
storage of food or beverages to remain on any real estate within the boundaries
of the city or in any unlocked or open shed or outbuilding thereon unless the
icebox, refrigerator or cabinet is locked or the hinges and latches of the same
are removed therefrom.  The icebox, refrigerator or cabinet shall not be stored
in the open.
(Prior Code, § 17-2)  (Ord. passed 11-9-1953)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Consumer fireworks. Legal consumer fireworks, as defined by I.C. 22-
11-14-1, may be used, ignited or discharged within Lebanon only during the
following dates and times:
      (1)   Between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. on January 1;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:59 pm on the eve of the
first day of the Chinese New Year, the date varies annually between January 21
and February 20;
      (3)   Between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. the first day of the
Chinese New Year, date varies annually between January 2l and February 20;
      (4)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on President's Day,
which is celebrated the third Monday in February;
      (5)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on any day in which
the official Indianapolis 500 race is held, typically, the Sunday before
Memorial Day;
      (6)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on Memorial Day;
      (7)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. or two hours after
sunset, in the event sunset is later than 9:00 p.m. on dates June 20 through
July 3 and July 5 through 9;
      (8)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
      (9)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on the two days
immediately prior to Labor Day;
      (10)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on Labor Day, which
is celebrated the first Monday in September;
      (11)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on the third day of
Diwali, the date varies annually between the end of October and early November;
      (12)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on December 24 and
25;
      (13)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m. on December 31; and
      (14)   On any other day designated by the Board of Public Works and
Safety for public fireworks display, between the hours of 2:00 p.m. on such day
and 11:59 p.m. on such a day.
   (B)   Location and debris. Consumer fireworks may be used, ignited, or
discharged during the permitted times set forth above only on the users' own
property, with the permission of the property owner, or at special discharge
locations designated by the State Fire Marshal or Lebanon Fire Chief. No person
may use, ignite, or discharge fireworks on any public street or public
property, including but not limited to parks, without the written permission of
the State Fire Marshal or Lebanon Fire Chief. Users shall be responsible for
cleaning and the proper disposal of all debris resulting from the discharge of
consumer fireworks. It is a violation of this section if fireworks land upon
property owned or occupied by another person from which permission was not
obtained, or upon public streets or property, and which fireworks and/or all
related debris is not removed by the user within 24 hours of such use or
discharge. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this section shall be
interpreted to grant permission to any person to discharge, place, or land
debris on property occupied or owned by another, and the 24-hour removal period
required by this section shall not relieve any such user of any applicable
civil liability, including but not limited to a cause of action for trespass or
nuisance.
   (C)   Special permits. Applications for a permit for relief from the
regulations contained in this section must be made in writing to the Mayor of
Lebanon and subsequently reviewed and either approved or denied by the Board of
Public Works and Safety. Any permit granted by the Board of Public Works and
Safety must be in writing and shall contain all conditions upon which said
permit shall be effective. In granting any such permit, the Board of Public
Works and Safety, may prescribe any reasonable conditions or requirements they
deem necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the community or the
surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 2018-10, passed 7-23-2018)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  PLAYING IN OR THROWING OBJECTS ACROSS STREETS AND THE LIKE.
   Is shall be unlawful for any person to play any ball game in, or to throw,
cast or hurl any snowball, stone or other hard substance or any other missile
into, along or across any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the
city, or into any lot or ground within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 17-5)  (Ord. passed 11-8-1875)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  DAMAGING, DESTROYING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Is shall be unlawful for any person to willfully damage, injure or interfere
with any public property.
(Prior Code, § 17-6)  (Ord. passed 1-13-1881)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06  CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   The consumption of alcoholic beverages, without prior approval from
the Board of Public Works and Safety, in any public place in the limits of the
city is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section the term PUBLIC PLACE is hereby
defined to be any government-owned building, within the city and/or the
streets, alleys, parks, and municipally owned property of the city.
   (C)   Alcohol is not permitted within city parks.
   (D)   In regard to specific events that wish to serve alcohol and occur in a
public place or on public property, event organizers must request and receive
approval from the Board of Public Works and Safety prior to the event.
Organizers must obtain any temporary permits required by the State of Indiana.
Approval of such a request is subject to the Board of Public Works and Safety
discretion and may or may not be approved.
   (E)   In regard to restaurants that wish to serve alcohol on public
property, such as a sidewalk or alley, outside of their establishment must
request and receive approval from the Board of Public Works and Safety prior to
the service of alcohol in that area. Establishments must be in full compliance
with any applicable regulations required by the State of Indiana. Approval of
such a request is subject to the Board of Public Works and Safety discretion
and mayor may not be approved.
(Prior Code, § 17-7)  (Ord. 75-7, passed 7-28-1975; Ord. 75-14, passed 10-27-
1975; Ord. 2017-10, passed 8-14-2017)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07  LITTERING AND VANDALISM IN PUBLIC AREAS OR ON PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to litter, vandalize,  deface or
obstruct in any way public works projects, public grounds, public property,
stormwater drainage projects or public rights-of-way within the territorial
limits of the city.
(Ord. 93-19, passed 1-10-1994)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   If the property does not follow the guidelines of §
130.01(D), a penalty shall be imposed.
   (C)   (1)   Any person and/or property owner who violates the provisions of
§
130.03 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by fines as follows:
         (a)   First offense: up to $75;
         (b)   Second offense: up to $100;
         (c)   Third offense: up to $150;
         (d)   Fourth offense: up to $200;
         (e)   Fifth offense: up to $250;
         (f)   Sixth and subsequent offenses: up to $300.
      (2)   Each day or continued violation (even if on the same day)
constitutes a separate and additional offense.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the terms of §
130.06(A) may be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 17-7)
   (E)   (1)   Violation of §
130.07 shall result in a minimum fine of $100 per occurrence and the cost of
cleanup.
      (2)   Parents and/or legal guardians and custodians shall be liable for
the monetary loss caused by acts of children consistent with the provisions of
state law.
      (3)   Enforcement of the provisions of §
130.07 shall be in the City Court upon the filing of a verified complaint,
approved by the City Attorney and signed by any law enforcement officer, the
City Building Inspector,  City Fire Chief, City Street Commissioner, City
Utilities General Manager or Parks Director or his or her authorized designees.
(Ord. 75-7, passed 7-28-1975; Ord. 75-14, passed 10-27-1975; Ord. 93-19, passed
1-10-1994; Ord. 2018- 10, passed 7-23-2018)
CHAPTER 131:  NOISE
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Decibel measurement criteria
   
131.03   Loud, unnecessary and unusual noises
   
131.04   Unlawful noise near schools, hospitals and churches
Specific Noise Sources
   
131.15   Radio, television sets and the like
   
131.16   Hawkers and peddlers
   
131.17   Drums
   
131.18   Animals and fowl
   
131.19   Machinery, equipment, fans and air conditioning
   
131.20   Construction
   
131.21   Vehicle repairs
   
131.22   Train horns and whistles
Sound Amplification Equipment
   
131.35   Registration; required
   
131.36   Statement information
   
131.37   Statement approval or disapproval
   
131.38   Fees
   
131.39   Regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “A” BAND LEVEL.  The total sound level of all noise as measured with a sound
level meter using the “A” weighting network. The unit is the dbA.
   AMBIENT NOISE.  The all-encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, usually being a composite of sounds with many sources near and
far.
   BAND PRESSURE LEVEL or BAND PRESSURE LEVEL OF A SOUND. For a specified
frequency band, shall mean the sound pressure level for the sound contained
within the restricted band.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.  The use, operation or maintenance of any sound
amplifying equipment for the purpose of advertising any business, or any goods
or any services, or for the purpose of attracting the attention of the public
to or advertising for, or soliciting patronage of customers to or for any
performance, show, entertainment, exhibition or event, or for the purpose of
demonstrating any sound equipment.
   CYCLE.  The complete sequence of values of a periodic quantity which occurs
during a period.
   DECIBEL (db).  A unit of level which denotes the ratio between two
quantities which are proportional to power; the number of decibels
corresponding to the ratio of two amounts of power is ten times the logarithm
to the base ten of this ratio.
   EMERGENCY WORK.  Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity or work required to protect persons or property
from an imminent exposure to danger.
   FREQUENCY or FREQUENCY OF A FUNCTION PERIODIC IN TIME.  The reciprocal of
the primitive period. The unit is the cycle per unit time and shall be
specified.
   MICROBAR.  A unit of pressure commonly used in acoustics and is equal to one
dyne per square centimeter.
   MOTOR VEHICLES.  Includes, but not be limited to, minibikes and go-carts.
   NONCOMMERCIAL PURPOSE.  The use, operation or maintenance of any sound
equipment for other than a commercial purpose. NONCOMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall mean
and include, but shall not be limited to, philanthropic, political, patriotic
and charitable purposes.
   PERIOD or PERIOD OF A PERIODIC QUANTITY.  The smallest increment of time for
which the function repeats itself.
   PERIODIC QUANTITY.  Oscillating quantity, the values of which recur for
equal increments of time.
   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT.  Any machine or device for the amplification of
the human voice, music or any other sound. SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT shall not
include standard automobile radios when used and heard only by the occupants of
the vehicle in which the automobile radio is installed. SOUND AMPLIFYING
EQUIPMENT, as used in this chapter, shall not include warning devised on
authorized emergency vehicles or horns or other warning devised on any vehicle
used only for traffic safety purposes.
   SOUND ANALYZER.  A device for measuring the band pressure level or pressure
spectrum level of a sound as a function of frequency.
   SOUND-LEVEL METER.  An instrument including a microphone, an amplifier, an
output meter and frequency weighting networks for the measurement of noise and
sound levels in a specified manner.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.  In decibels of a sound shall mean 20 times the
logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of this sound to the
reference pressure, which reference pressure shall be explicitly stated.
   SOUND TRUCK.  Any motor vehicle, or any other vehicle regardless of motive
power, whether in motion or stationary, having mounted thereon, or attached
thereto, any sound amplifying equipment.
   SPECTRUM or SPECTRUM OF A FUNCTION OF TIME.  A description of its resolution
into components, each of a different frequency.
(Prior Code, § 17-19)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 131.02  DECIBEL MEASUREMENT CRITERIA.
   Any decibel measurement made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be based on a reference sound pressure of 0.0002 microbars as measured in
any octave band with center frequency, in cycles per second, as follows: 63,
125, 250, 500, 1,000, 2,000, 4,000 and 8,000 or as measured with a sound level
meter using the “A” weighting.
(Prior Code, § 17-20)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 131.03  LOUD, UNNECESSARY AND UNUSUAL NOISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make or continue, or
cause to be made or continued, any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which
disturbs the peace or quiet of any neighborhood or which causes discomfort or
annoyance to any reasonable person of normal sensitiveness residing in the
area.
   (B)   The standards which shall be considered in determining whether a
violation of the provisions of this section exists shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   The volume of the noise;
      (2)   The intensity of the noise;
      (3)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
      (4)   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
      (5)   The volume and intensity of the background noise, if any;
      (6)   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities;
      (7)   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates;
      (8)   The density of the inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates;
      (9)   The time of the day or night the noise occurs;
      (10)   The duration of the noise;
      (11)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant; and
      (12)   Whether the noise is produced by a commercial or noncommercial
activity.
(Prior Code, § 17-21)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04  UNLAWFUL NOISE NEAR SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS AND CHURCHES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create any noise on any street,
sidewalk or public place adjacent to any school, institution of learning or
church while the same is in use or adjacent to any hospital, which noise
unreasonable interferes with the workings of that institution or which disturbs
or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs are
displayed in those streets, sidewalks or public places indicating the presence
of a school, church or hospital.
(Prior Code, § 17-22)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SPECIFIC NOISE SOURCES
§ 131.15  RADIO, TELEVISION SETS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Use restricted.  It shall be unlawful for any person within any
residential zone of the city to use or operate any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, television set or other machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound (between the hours of 10:00 p.m. of one day
and 7:00 a.m. of the following day) in a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet
and comfort of neighboring residents or any reasonable person of normal
sensitiveness residing in the area.
   (B)   Prima facie violation.  Any noise exceeding the ambient noise level at
the property line of any property (or, if a condominium or apartment house,
within any adjoining apartment) by more than five decibels shall be deemed to
be prima facie evidence of a violation of the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 17-29)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.16  HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to sell anything by
outcry within any area of the city zoned for residential uses; provided,
however, this shall not include the auction of personal property or real estate
by a licensed auctioneer employed by the owner thereof. The provisions of this
section shall not be construed to prohibit the selling by outcry of
merchandise, food and beverages at licensed sporting events, parades, fairs,
circuses and other similar licensed public entertainment events.
(Prior Code, § 17-30)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.17  DRUMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any drum or other instrument, or
device of any kind for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation of
noise within the city. This section shall not apply to any person who is a
participant in a school band or duly licensed parade or who has been otherwise
duly authorized to engage in that conduct.
(Prior Code, § 17-31)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.18  ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   No person shall keep or maintain, or permit the keeping of, upon any
premises owned, occupied or controlled by that person, any animal or fowl
otherwise permitted to be kept which, by any sound, cry or behavior, shall
cause annoyance or discomfort to a reasonable person of normal sensitiveness in
any residential neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 17-32)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.19  MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT, FANS AND AIR CONDITIONING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any machinery, equipment,
pump, fan, air conditioning apparatus or similar mechanical devise in any
manner so as to create any noise which would cause the noise level at the
property line of any property to exceed the ambient noise level by more than
five  decibels based on a reference sound pressure of 0.0002 microbars as
measured in any octave band center frequency, in cycles per sound, as follows:
63, 125, 250, 500, 1,000, 2,000, 4,000 and 8,000, and for the combined
frequency bands, “A” band.
(Prior Code, § 17-33)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.20  CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within a residential zone, or within a
radius of 500 feet therefrom, to operate equipment or perform any outside
construction or repair work on buildings, structures or projects or to operate
any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric
hoist or other construction type device except to perform emergency work,
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. of one day and 7:00 a.m. of the next day in a
manner that a reasonable person of normal sensitiveness residing in the area is
caused discomfort or annoyance.
(Prior Code, § 17-34)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.21  VEHICLE REPAIRS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within any residential area of the city
to repair, rebuild or test any motor vehicle (between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
of one day and 7:00 a.m. of the next day) in a manner that a reasonable person
of normal sensitiveness residing in the area is caused discomfort or annoyance.
(Prior Code, § 17-35)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.22  TRAIN HORNS AND WHISTLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or sound, or cause to be
operated or sounded (between the hours of 10:00 p.m. of one day and 7:00 a.m.
of the next day), a train horn or train whistle which creates a noise in excess
of 89 dbA at any place or point 300 feet or more distant from the source of the
sound.
(Prior Code, § 17-36)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SOUND AMPLIFICATION EQUIPMENT
§ 131.35  REGISTRATION; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than personnel of law enforcement
or governmental agencies, to install, use or operate within the city a
loudspeaker or sound amplifying equipment in a fixed or movable position or
mounted upon any sound truck for the purposes of giving instructions,
directions, talks, addresses, lectures or transmitting music to any persons or
assemblages of persons in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, park, place or
public property without first filing a registration statement and obtaining
approval thereof as set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 17-43)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.36  STATEMENT INFORMATION.
   Every user of sound amplifying equipment shall file a registration statement
with the City Clerk- Treasurer five days prior to the date on which the sound
amplifying equipment is intended to be used, which statement shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of both the owner and user of
the sound amplifying equipment;
   (B)   The maximum sound producing power of the sound amplifying equipment
which shall include the wattage to be used, the volume in decibels of sound
which will be produced and the approximate distance for which sound will be
audible from the sound amplifying equipment;
   (C)   The license and motor number if a sound truck is to be used;
   (D)   A general description of the sound amplifying equipment which is to be
used; and
   (E)   Whether the sound amplifying equipment will be used for commercial or
noncommercial purposes.
(Prior Code, § 17-44)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 131.37  STATEMENT APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall return to the applicant an approved
certified copy of the registration statement required by §
131.35 unless he or she finds that:
      (1)   The conditions of the motor vehicle movement are such that the use
of the equipment would constitute a detriment to traffic safety;
      (2)   The conditions of pedestrian movement are such that use of the
equipment would constitute a detriment to traffic safety; or
      (3)   The registration statement reveals that the applicant would not be
able to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   In the event the registration statement is disapproved, the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall endorse upon the statement his or her reasons for
disapproval and return it forthwith to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 17-45)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 131.38  FEES.
   Prior to the issuance of the registration statement required by §
131.35, a fee in the amount of $25 per day, or any portion thereof, shall be
paid to the city, if the loudspeaker or sound amplifying equipment is to be
used for commercial purposes. No fee shall be required for the operation of a
loudspeaker or sound amplifying equipment for noncommercial purposes.
(Prior Code, § 17-46)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)
§ 131.39  REGULATIONS.
   The commercial and noncommercial use of sound amplifying equipment shall be
subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   The only sounds permitted shall be either music or human speech, or
both.
   (B)   The operation of sound amplifying equipment shall occur between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. each day except on Sundays and legal
holidays. No operation of sound amplifying equipment for commercial purposes
shall be permitted on Sundays or legal holidays. The operation of sound
amplifying equipment for noncommercial purposes on Sundays and legal holidays
shall only occur between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (C)   No sound emanating from sound amplifying equipment shall exceed 15 dbA
above the ambient sound level as measured at any property line.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate any sound amplifying equipment within
200 feet of churches, schools, hospitals or city or county buildings.
   (E)   In any event, the volume of sound shall be so controlled that it will
not be unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring, disturbing or a nuisance to
reasonable persons or normal sensitiveness within the area of audibility.
(Prior Code, § 17-47)  (Ord. 73-5, passed 6-11-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132:  FIREARMS
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Discharge of cannon, firearms; generally
   
132.03   Permission required; exceptions
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM.  Any device, by whatever known, which is designed to expel a
projectile or projectiles by the action of an explosion, expansion of gas or
escape of gas, air gun, BB gun or pellet gun projecting any lead or any
missiles.
   HANDGUN.  Any firearm which is:
      (1)   Designed or redesigned or made or remade, and intended to be fired
while held in one hand;
      (2)   Having a barrel of less than ten inches in length; or
      (3)   A firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person.
   LICENSED GUN CLUB.  A club or organization, organized for the purpose of
practicing shooting at targets, licensed by the city.
   PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm,
partnership, club, society or joint stock company.
(Prior Code, § 17-4.1)  (Ord. 86-1, passed 2-24-1986)
§ 132.02  DISCHARGE OF CANNON, FIREARMS; GENERALLY.
   The Chief of Police and the Mayor and may authorize the discharge of cannons
and firearms in commemoration of any important event.
(Prior Code, § 17-4)  (Ord. passed 12-1-1875)
§ 132.03  PERMISSION REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm or cannon, or
detonate any explosives any place within the corporate limits of the city, or
to assist any other person or persons to engage in any discharging or
detonation, unless the person has been granted special permission by the Board
of Public Works and Safety of the city; provided, however, this section shall
not apply to the following:
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer who shall so discharge a firearm in the
lawful performance of his or her duty;
   (B)   Any person who shall so discharge a firearm in a regularly established
shooting gallery, range or gun club licensed pursuant to regulations
established by the Board of Public Works and Safety;
   (C)   Any person who shall so discharge a firearm in the lawful protection
of life or property when the surrounding facts and circumstances justify those
actions;
   (D)   Any person who shall discharge a firearm during ceremonial occasions
approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety; and
   (E)   Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United States
of America or State National Guard, while in the performance of their official
duties.
(Prior Code, § 17-4.1)  (Ord. 86-1, passed 2-24-1986)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
an ordinance violation and shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of this chapter, any weapon seized by
law enforcement authorities shall be confiscated by the trial court and, when
no longer needed for evidentiary purposes, the court may transfer the weapon to
the County Police Department, who shall dispose of the firearm within the
intent of state law.
(Prior Code, § 17-4.1)  (Ord. 86-1, passed 2-24-1986)
TITLE XV:  UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   ADMINISTRATION
      
3.   NONCONFORMING USES, LOTS AND STRUCTURES
      
4.   ZONING DISTRICTS
      
5.   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
      
6.   OVERLAY DISTRICTS
      
7.   DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
      
8.   SUBDIVISION OF LAND
      
9.   PERMITS, CERTIFICATES AND PROCEDURES
      
10.   ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
      
11.   DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 1:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1.1   Title
   
1.2   Intent and purpose
   
1.3   Interpretation
   
1.4   Applicability and compliance
   
1.5   Transition rules
   
1.6   How to use this document
   
1.7   Zoning map
   
1.8   Annexation and initial zoning
   
1.9   Repealer
   
1.10   Severability clause
   
1.11   Effective date
§ 1.1  TITLE.
   These regulations shall hereafter be referred to as the “City of Lebanon,
Indiana Unified Development Ordinance,” and it may be cited and referred to as
the “zoning ordinance,” “subdivision control ordinance,” “unified development
ordinance,” “UDO” or “ordinance.” Combining the zoning ordinance and the
subdivision control ordinance into this unified development ordinance reduces
redundancy and increases efficiency in the application of laws applied to land
development in the city.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 1.2  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this unified development ordinance is to regulate the use and
development of land within the jurisdiction of the city. It is intended to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare, and more specifically
to:
   (A)   Guide future growth and development in accordance with the city
comprehensive plan and center township thoroughfare plan;
   (B)   Divide its jurisdictional area into districts of a kind, character,
number, shape and area as may be considered necessary;
   (C)   Limit the height, area, bulk and use of structures erected;
   (D)   Determine the use and intensity of use of land and lot areas;
   (E)   Determine the area of front, rear and side yards, courts and other
open spaces about those buildings;
   (F)   Provide adequate light and air;
   (G)   Prevent the overcrowding of land and avoid undue concentration of
population;
   (H)   Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage,
schools, parks and other public requirements;
   (I)   Avoid scattered and uncontrolled development of land that would result
in excessive expenditure of public funds for the supply of community services;
   (J)   Protect the historic and architectural heritage of the city’s central
business district (downtown);
   (K)   Provide for performance standards for the emission of pollutants into
the air, water and ground; and
   (L)   Protect the natural resources of the city.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 1.3  INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this ordinance
shall be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare.
   (A)   Conflicting requirements.  If two or more provisions within this
ordinance are in conflict or are inconsistent with one another, the provision
which is most restrictive shall control.
   (B)   Overlapping regulations.  When this ordinance along with private
covenants, private contracts, commitments, permits, agreements, state laws,
federal laws or other regulations applies to a structure or parcel of land, the
greater restriction shall control. In no instance shall this ordinance be
interpreted as altering or negating any other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 1.4  APPLICABILITY AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or buildings
established hereafter, all structural alterations, remodels, renovations,
changes in required exterior material, changes in site or site flow, and
relocation of existing buildings occurring hereafter, and all enlargements of
or additions to existing conforming uses exceeding 30% of the existing site or
structure occurring hereafter as determined by the Administrator shall be
subject to all the regulations of this unified development ordinance as they
apply to the zoning districts in which those buildings or uses of land shall be
located. Interior alterations or remodeling is exempt from this ordinance, but
is subject to the standards of the City Building Code.
   (B)   This ordinance shall not be construed as abating any action now
pending under, or by virtue of, the prior existing zoning ordinance; or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue; or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation; or as
waiving any right of the city under any section or provision existing at the
time of the effective date of this ordinance; or as vacating or annulling any
rights obtained by any person, firm or corporation, by lawful action of the
city, except as shall be expressly provided for in this ordinance.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 1.5  TRANSITION RULES.
   Any application that has been filed with the Plan Commission or its
designees and is full and complete, prior to the effective date of this unified
development ordinance, shall be regulated by the terms and conditions of the
zoning ordinance that was in place at the time of filing. However, all
administrative procedures and fees shall follow those set forth by this unified
development ordinance and any fee ordinance, as amended.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 1.6  HOW TO USE THIS DOCUMENT.
   (A)   Structure.  The structure of the text of this ordinance is as follows:
Chapter (indicated by 1,  and the like), section (indicated by §
1.1 and the like) and subsequent subsections (indicated by (A), (1), (a) and
the like). Below is an example of this format:
   (B)   Applicable districts.  Zoning district designations are located in
various places throughout the document. If one of these identifiers appears
within a section, then that section will apply to the corresponding zoning
district. A complete list of the identifiers can be found at the beginning of
Chapter 4: Zoning Districts. Examples of district identifiers follow:
   (C)   Defined words.  Words used in a special sense in this unified
development ordinance are defined in
Chapter 11: Definitions. All other words shall have the meaning inferred from
their context in this ordinance or their ordinarily accepted definitions.
   (D)   Meanings.  The following rules of construction shall apply to the text
of this ordinance.
      (1)   The particular and specific provisions of this ordinance shall
supersede any general requirements that are established by it.
      (2)   The words SHALL, MUST and WILL are always mandatory and not
discretionary. The words MAY and SHOULD are permissive.
      (3)   Words used in the present tense include the future; and words used
in the singular number include the plural; and the plural includes the
singular; words of the masculine gender will include the feminine and the
neuter gender will refer to any gender as required, unless the context plainly
indicates the contrary.
      (4)   The phrase USED FOR includes ARRANGED FOR, DESIGNED FOR, INTENDED
FOR, MAINTAINED FOR or OCCUPIED FOR.
      (5)   The word PERSON includes an individual, a corporation, a
partnership, an incorporated association or any other similar entity.
      (6)   Unless it is plainly evident from the context that a different
meaning is intended, a regulation which involves two or more items, conditions,
provisions or events connected by the conjunction AND, OR or EITHER/OR, the use
of the conjunction is defined as follows:
         (a)   AND means that all the connected items, conditions, provisions
and events apply together and not separately;
         (b)   OR means that the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events apply separately or in any combination; and
         (c)   EITHER/OR means that the connected items, conditions, provisions
or events shall apply separately but not in combination.
      (7)   The word INCLUDES does not limit a term to the specified examples,
but is intended to extend the term’s meaning to all other instances or
circumstances of like kind or character.
      (8)   The word CITY means Lebanon, Indiana, and the word STATE means the
State of Indiana.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Districts, see Title XV,
Chapter 4
§ 1.7  ZONING MAP.
   (A)   As part of the unified development ordinance.
      (1)   The boundaries of the zoning districts are hereby established on a
map entitled: “Official Zoning Map: Lebanon, Indiana” adopted December 10,
2007, which accompanies and is hereby incorporated in and made a part of this
ordinance. Notations, references, indications and other matters shown on the
zoning map are as much a part of this ordinance as if they were fully described
herein.
      (2)   The official zoning map shall be maintained in electronic form, and
depicted in various formats and scales as appropriate to the need. The
Administrator shall be the custodian of the official zoning map.
   (B)   Verification.  The official zoning map shall be identified by the
signature of the Mayor attested by the Clerk-Treasurer, and bearing the seal of
the city under the following words:
“This is to certify that this is the official zoning map referred to in the
Lebanon unified development ordinance.”
   (C)   Future map entries.
      (1)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, changes
are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official
zoning map, these changes shall be entered on the map promptly after the
amendment has been approved by the Council, with an entry on the official
zoning map as follows:
“On (date) by official action of the Council, the following changes were made
in the official zoning map: (brief description of the nature of the changes).”
      (2)   No amendment to this chapter which involves matter portrayed on the
official zoning map shall become effective until after the change and entry has
been made on the map.
   (D)   Changes.  No changes of any nature shall be made in the official
zoning map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set
forth in this ordinance. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person
or persons shall be considered a violation of this ordinance and punishable as
provided under
Chapter 10: Enforcement and Penalties of this ordinance.
   (E)   Location of zoning map.  Regardless of the existence of purported
copies of the official zoning map which may from time to time be made or
published, the official zoning map, which shall be located in the office of the
Planning and Building Department, shall be the final authority as to the
current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings and other structures
in the city.
   (F)   Damaged/lost or destroyed map.  In the event the official zoning map
becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of the
nature or number of changes and additions, the Council may direct the Plan
Commission to prepare a new official zoning map which shall supersede the prior
map upon approval by the Common Council. The new official zoning map may
correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior map, but no
correction shall have the effect of amending the original official zoning map
or any subsequent amendment thereof. The new official zoning map shall be
identified by the signature of the Mayor attested by the Clerk-Treasurer and
bearing the seal of the city under the following words:
      “This is to certify that this official zoning map supersedes and replaces
on this day (date) the official zoning map adopted December 10, 2007 as part of
Ordinance 07-16 of the City of Lebanon, Indiana.”
   (G)   Map to be preserved.  Unless the prior official zoning map has been
lost, or has been totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts
thereof remaining shall be preserved, together with all available records
pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
   (H)   Map revisions.  The official zoning map shall be updated as required
by schedule, found in the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
   (I)   Interpretation of district boundaries.  Where uncertainty exists as to
the boundaries of districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following
rules shall apply.
      (1)   Streets.  Boundaries indicated as approximately following
thoroughfares such as highways, streets or alleys shall be construed as
following the centerlines of those thoroughfares.
      (2)   Section lines.  Boundaries indicated as approximately following
section line limits, half-section and quarter-section lines, city corporate
limit lines, or platted lot lines shall be construed as following these lines.
      (3)   Railroad lines.  Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines
shall be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
      (4)   Shore lines and water ways.  Boundaries indicated as following
shore lines shall be construed to follow the shore lines, and in the event of
change in the shore line shall be construed as moving with the actual shore
line; boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streams, creeks, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow
the centerlines. However, where streams and rivers meander from their beds as
they existed on the effective date of this ordinance, the boundary shall be
construed as following the original stream or riverbed.
      (5)   Use of scale on zoning map.  Boundaries indicated as parallel to or
extensions of features indicated in subsections (I)(1) through (I)(4) above
shall be so construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the official
zoning map shall be determined by the scale of the map.
      (6)   Board may determine.  Where physical or cultural features existing
on the ground are at variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or
in other circumstances not covered by this chapter herein, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall interpret the district boundaries.
      (7)   Vacations and relocations.  The vacation or relocation of rights-
of-way and lot lines shall not affect the location of district boundaries;
provided, however, whenever any right-of-way is vacated by proper authority,
the districts adjoining each side of the vacation shall be extended
automatically to the center of the vacation.
      (8)   Lines splitting lots/divided lots.  When a zoning district boundary
line divides a lot or parcel, the Administrator shall determine the applicable
zoning district. The Administrator may require a rezone or replat of the site
if any portion of a construction or development proposal overlaps two or more
zoning districts. The petitioner shall be responsible for filing the
appropriate forms and for paying the appropriate filing fees to rezone or
replat the lot or parcel. If a portion of a lot or parcel is in an Overlay
District, the entire lot or parcel shall be deemed as being within the Overlay
District.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 1.8  ANNEXATION AND INITIAL ZONING.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall be guided by the principles and directives
of the comprehensive plan of the city, as amended and this unified development
ordinance in making zoning district recommendations to the Common Council for
newly annexed areas.
   (B)   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the city shall be
classified into one or more of the districts set forth in
Chapter 4: Zoning Districts. Before the Common Council of the city shall
consider the ordinance for annexation, which shall include therein a
description of the district or districts, the City Plan Commission shall
conduct a public hearing in the manner prescribed in the Plan Commission Rules
of Procedure, and make a recommendation on the new zoning classification to the
Common Council. Newly annexed land submitted without a development proposal or
concept plan shall be classified into the Open Space (OS) Zoning District, or
at the discretion of the Plan Commission, a suitable district that is
consistent with the recommendations of the city comprehensive plan. If a
different zoning classification is desired by the property owner, the owner
shall be required to submit a concept plan, §
9.19, upon application for annexation.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 1.9  REPEALER.
   The following city zoning and subdivision control ordinances are hereby
repealed and are replaced by this unified development ordinance and official
zoning map:
   (A)   The Zoning Code of the city, adopted July 24, 2000;
   (B)   The subdivision control ordinance of the city, adopted July 24, 2000;
and
   (C)   The zoning map adopted July 24, 2000, and amended 2004.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 1.10  SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   Should any section or provision of this unified development ordinance be
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the decision shall
not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole, or any portion thereof,
other than the portion declared to be invalid.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 1.11  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This ordinance shall be in full effect from and after January 1, 2008 as
provided by law. Passed by the Common Council of the city, this Monday,
December 10, 2007.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
CHAPTER 2:  ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
2.1   Duties and powers of the Common Council
   
2.2   Duties and powers of the Plan Commission
   
2.3   Duties of the Planning and Zoning Administrator
   
2.4   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
2.5   Adoption by reference of Rules of Procedure
§ 2.1  DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE COMMON COUNCIL.
   The powers and duties of the City Common Council, also known as the
legislative body, with regard to this ordinance are defined by the Indiana
Code, and are described in this chapter.
   (A)   Duties.  Duties should be interpreted as activities that are
obligations. Common Council duties include:
      (1)   Plans and ordinances.  Adopt, reject or amend the comprehensive
plan, any other plans and the unified development ordinance, as certified and
submitted by the Plan Commission;
      (2)   Plan and ordinance amendments.  Adopt, reject or amend proposals to
amend or partially repeal the text of the comprehensive plan, any other plans
and the unified development ordinance as certified and submitted by the Plan
Commission;
      (3)   Zoning map amendments.  Adopt, reject or amend proposals to amend
the official zoning map certified and submitted by the Plan Commission;
      (4)   Planned unit developments. Adopt, reject or amend proposals for
planned unit developments as certified and submitted by the Plan Commission;
and
      (5)   Fee schedule.  Adopt, reject or amend proposals to adopt or amend a
fee schedule as certified and submitted by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Powers.  Powers should be interpreted as activities that are optional
and may be initiated by the Common Council. Council powers include:
      (1)   Plan and ordinance amendments.  Initiate amendments to the text of
the comprehensive plan, any other plans, the unified development ordinance; and
      (2)   Zoning map amendments.  Initiate amendments to the official zoning
map.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Planned Unit Developments, see Title XV,
Chapter 5
§ 2.2  DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Authority.  The Plan Commission is hereby authorized to perform those
duties and functions specified in I.C. 36-7-4-400 et seq. and other applicable
sections of state law and any other responsibilities as may be assigned to it
from time to time by the Mayor, Common Council or Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   Rules of procedure.  The Commission shall adopt written rules of
procedure for the administration of the affairs of the Commission and its staff
for filing, notice and conduct of hearings.
   (C)   Establish advisory and review committees.  The Plan Commission shall
establish advisory and review committees as necessary, and shall determine the
powers and duties, authority and membership of additional committees.
      (1)   Technical Assistance Committee.
         (a)   Establishment.  A Technical Assistance Committee (TAC) is hereby
established to assist the Plan Commission in the technical review of planned
unit developments, development plans and subdivision plats, and to perform
those duties as are outlined for the Committee by the unified development
ordinance of the city.
         (b)   Membership.  Committee membership shall be at the request of the
Planning and Zoning Administrator. The Administrator may request the assistance
of members of public and semi-public local and state departments, agencies and
organizations, including but not limited to, the City Planning Department,
Lebanon Utilities, the City Fire Department, the City Parks Department, the
City Street Department, the City School Board, the Mayor’s office, the County
Surveyor, the County Stormwater Board, the County Soil and Water Conservation
District, the State Department of Transportation, the State Department of
Natural Resources and the City Plan Commission.
         (c)   Duties.  The duties of the Technical Assistance Committee shall
be to give technical expertise to the Plan Commission regarding plans and
proposals; and to perform those duties assigned to it by the Plan Commission.
When required by this ordinance, the Technical Assistance Committee shall meet
with the subdivider or applicants as per the meeting schedule established by
the Administrator.
         (d)   Informal meetings.  An applicant or subdivider seeking an
informal meeting with the staff shall contact the Administrator to schedule a
meeting date and time.
         (e)   Findings.  The findings of the Technical Assistance Committee
shall be advisory only and neither the applicant or subdivider nor the city
shall be bound by any decision reached during a Technical Assistance Committee
meeting. Findings of the Technical Assistance Committee shall be in writing and
shall be submitted to the Plan Commission prior to the Commission’s review of a
PUD concept plan, development plan or subdivision proposal.
      (2)   Plat Committee.
         (a)   Establishment.  The Plan Commission may establish a Plat
Committee to review and decide petitions for minor plats, secondary plats and
administrative subdivisions.
         (b)   Membership.  Committee membership shall be divided into two
classes.
            (1)   Official members.  Official members shall consist of three
members. One of the members shall be a staff member representing the city and
the remaining members shall be members of the Plan Commission who are not
otherwise employed by the city, its subdivisions or instrumentalities.
            (2)   Ex officio members.  Ex officio members shall be the
Technical Assistance Committee (TAC).
         (c)   Appointment.  Each member shall be appointed by the Plan
Commission for one year.
         (d)   Removal.  The Plan Commission may remove a member from the
committee upon mailing written reasons for removal to the member.
         (e)   Decisions.  The Committee may take action only upon a majority
vote. In the event of any uncertainty as to compliance or classification of any
subdivision, the Plat Committee shall forward the subdivision to the Plan
Commission for consideration.
         (f)   Voting.  Only official members of the Plat Committee shall be
entitled to vote on matters requiring official action by the Plat Committee.
         (g)   Meetings.  The Plat Committee shall meet at least as often as
once each calendar month but not more than once per calendar week.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Duties of the Planning and Zoning Administrator, see Title XV, §
2.3
Editor’s note:
   City of Lebanon Plan Commission Rules of Procedures, as amended, are
available at www.cityoflebanon.org.
§ 2.3  DUTIES OF THE PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Duties.  The Administrator, including his or her designee(s), will
have the principal responsibility for the administration and enforcement of
this unified development ordinance within the Plan Commission’s planning
jurisdiction. The duties delegated by the Plan Commission to the Administrator,
or his or her designee shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Interpretation and assistance.  Provide interpretation of the
unified development ordinance of the city when necessary and provide technical
and clerical assistance as the Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals may
require;
      (2)   Public information.  Provide and maintain a public information
service relative to all matters or the Plan Commission and arising out of the
unified development ordinance of the city;
      (3)   Permits.  Reviewing, approving or disapproving all improvement
location permits and other permits (
Chapter 9: Permits, Certificates and Procedures) and keeping permanent records
of applications made and actions taken;
      (4)   Inspections.  Conducting inspections of structures and properties
to determine compliance with the requirements of this ordinance and all
approvals granted by the Plan Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals, Plat
Committee or other body in the execution of its duties as established by this
ordinance and the State Code;
      (5)   Record keeping.  Maintaining permanent and current records
documenting the application of this ordinance including, but not limited to,
all maps, amendments, conditional uses, variances, waivers and appeals. The
official zoning map shall be updated per the terms of the Plan Commission Rules
of Procedure;
      (6)   Plan Commission applications.  Receiving, processing, docketing and
referring to the Plan Commission all appropriate applications;
      (7)   Board of Zoning Appeals applications.  Receiving, processing,
docketing and referring to the Board of Zoning Appeals all appeals, variances,
conditional uses and other matters upon which it is authorized to act under
this ordinance and the State Code;
      (8)   Technical Assistance Committee.  Receiving, processing, docketing
and referring to the Technical Assistance Committee all appropriate
applications;
      (9)   Clerical and technical assistance.  Providing all clerical and
technical assistance as may be required by the Board of Zoning Appeals, Plan
Commission, Technical Assistance Committee, legislative bodies or other body in
the execution of its duties as established by this ordinance and the State
Code; and
      (10)   Analysis.  Conduct research and collect and analyze, on a
continuing basis, all pertinent data on the growth and development of the city
and its environs in order to provide a foundation for a planning program.
   (B)   Fee schedule.  The Administrator shall maintain a schedule of fees, as
approved by the Common Council, for all applications, permits and other
processes outlined in this ordinance.
      (1)   Fee basis.  All fees shall be intended to reimburse the Plan
Commission for the time and cost of processing the required materials. In no
instance shall a fee be used as a means of discouraging or encouraging any
particular types of applications.
      (2)   Public access.  The fee schedule shall be made available to the
public by the Administrator.
      (3)   Establishment and revisions.  The fee schedule shall be prepared by
the Administrator, reviewed by the Plan Commission and approved by ordinance by
the Common Council.
         (a)   The fee schedule may be amended by a recommendation submitted to
the Common Council by the Plan Commission followed by the Council approval of a
revised fee schedule ordinance.
         (b)   The Administrator shall review the fee schedule annually and
bring any necessary revisions to the attention of the Plan Commission and
Common Council.
      (4)   Payment required.  Until all applicable fees have been paid in
full, no action shall be taken on any application or petition.
      (5)   Fines for failing to obtain a permit.  The Administrator may
require any person who initiates construction of a structure or the alteration
of land prior to obtaining any required permit to pay fines in accordance with
the schedule in
Chapter 10 of this ordinance. In addition to any enforcement cost, attorney’s
fees for the activity may be included in addition to the established fine/
penalty.
   (C)   Schedule of meeting and filing dates.  The Administrator shall
maintain an annual calendar of meeting and filing dates for the Technical
Assistance Committee, Plat Committee, Plan Commission and Board of Zoning
Appeals. The existence of this calendar shall not be interpreted as prohibiting
special meetings of the Committees, Commission or Board.
      (1)   Coordination of calendars.  The calendars of the Technical
Assistance Committee, Plat Committee and Plan Commission shall be coordinated
to ensure the efficient processing of applications.
      (2)   Conformance with the State Code.  All meeting and filing dates
shall be based on the requirements of this ordinance and the laws of the state.
      (3)   Approval of dates.  The calendar of meeting and filing dates shall
be prepared by the Administrator and approved by the Plan Commission and Board
of Zoning Appeals (the Plan Commission shall be responsible for approving a
coordinated calendar for the Technical Assistance Committee and the Plat
Committee). The calendar of meeting and filing dates shall be reviewed and
updated annually by the Administrator.
   (D)   Appealing a decision of the Administrator.  Recourse from the decision
of the Administrator shall be to the Plan Commission on matters pertaining to
zoning. Recourse from the decision of the Plan Commission shall be to the Board
of Zoning Appeals (BZA) and recourse from the decision of the BZA shall be to
the courts as provided by law.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Editor’s note:
   Applications and other forms shall be available at the office of the
Planning and Building Department and at www.cityoflebanon.org.
§ 2.4  BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment.  The City Board of Zoning Appeals (referred to herein
as the Board of Zoning Appeals, the BZA or the Board) which shall conduct
business consistent with all requirements of the Indiana Code and this unified
development ordinance, is hereby established pursuant to the I.C. 36-7-4-900
series.
   (B)   Duties.  Duties should be interpreted as activities that are
obligations. Board of Zoning Appeals duties include:
      (1)   Rules of procedure.  The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have sole
authority to adopt any and all rules under I.C. 36-74-916 and any and all
procedures concerning organization, selection of officers, forms for
applications, filing requirements, procedures, notices and conduct of meetings,
and public hearings;
      (2)   Variances.  Review, hear and approve or deny all applications for
variances from development standards, such as height, setback or area:
(I.C. 36-7-4-918.5)
         (a)   Written findings of fact.  No variance in the application of the
provisions of the ordinance shall be made by the Board relating to buildings,
land or premises now existing or to be constructed, unless after a public
hearing, the Board shall find, in writing that:
            (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the community;
            (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property
included in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse
manner; and
            (3)   The strict application of the terms of this ordinance will
result in practical difficulties in the use of the property.
(I.C. 36-7-4-918.5)
         (b)   Conditions or commitments for variances.  The Board may impose
reasonable conditions upon or require commitments for its approval as it deems
necessary to find that the variance will not subvert the general purpose of
this or any other city ordinance and will not injure property, uses or natural,
scenic or historic features in the same zoning district and vicinity. These
conditions may include limitations concerning use, construction, character,
location, landscaping, screening, parking and other matters related to the
purpose and intent of this ordinance; and
         (c)   Failure to comply.  Where an owner has failed to comply with any
condition and/or commitment permitted or required by the grant of the variance,
the Board may authorize this action as consistent with §
10.4.
      (3)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Review, hear and approve or deny all applications for
conditional uses; and
(I.C. 36-7-4-918.2)
         (b)   Imposition of additional conditions. The Board may impose
additional conditions to assure that the conditional use will conform to the
intent of this ordinance.
(I.C. 36-7-4-918.2 and 36-7-4-921)
      (4)   Appeals.  Review, hear and decide appeals of decisions made under
this ordinance or in the enforcement of this ordinance by the Administrator
and/or his or her designees, committees, administrative boards or any other
bodies (except the Plan Commission); and
(I.C. 36-7-4-918.1)
      (5)   Other duties.  All additional duties as established by the State
Code and the City Board of Zoning Appeals Rules of Procedure.
   (C)   Powers.  Powers should be interpreted as activities that are optional
and may be initiated by the Board as per the Indiana Code or the BZA Rules of
Procedure.
   (D)   Applications.  All applications for variances, conditional uses and
requests for administrative appeal shall be filed by the applicant with the
Administrator in the manner prescribed by the Board.
   (E)   Communication with Board members.  No person (including applicants,
remonstrators and other interested parties) may communicate with any member of
the Board before the hearing with intent to influence the member’s action on a
matter pending before the Board.
(I.C. 36-7-4920)
   (F)   Notice of public hearing.  For all public hearings, notice shall be
provided to the public consistent with the requirements of §
9.15.
   (G)   Re-filing of denied applications.  No request for variance,
conditional use or administrative appeal that has been denied may be re-filed
for a period of one year from the date of the denial, unless substantial
changes have been made that address the reasons for denial. The Administrator
may waive the waiting period at his or her discretion based on adjacent land
use changes or other contributing factors.
   (H)   Appeals.  Every decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
subject to review by a court of jurisdiction (writ of certiorari) as prescribed
by the I.C. 367-4-1000 series. All appeals shall be presented to a court of
jurisdiction.
   (I)   Improvement location permit required.  If the Board grants a
conditional use or variance, it shall direct the applicant to apply for an
improvement location permit. A development plan consistent with §
9.17 of this ordinance may apply. If the application complies with all
requirements established by the Board and this ordinance, an improvement
location permit for the execution of the approved variance or conditional use
shall be issued.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Development standards variance, see Title XV, §
9.23
   Written commitments, see Title XV, §
9.14
§ 2.5  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The City Plan Commission Rules of Procedure dated October 15, 2007, as
amended, is incorporated by reference into this unified development ordinance.
In the event the provisions of this ordinance conflict with the Rules of
Procedure, then the unified development ordinance shall control.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Editor’s note:
   City of Lebanon Plan Commission Rules of Procedures, as amended, are
available at www.cityoflebanon.org.
CHAPTER 3:  NONCONFORMING USES, LOTS AND STRUCTURES
Section
   
3.1   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
3.2   Nonconforming lots; areas and widths for single-family dwellings
   
3.3   Nonconforming signs; legally nonconforming
§ 3.1  NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Intent.  Within the districts established by this ordinance or by
amendments that may later be adopted, there may exist certain structures or
uses of land that were lawful before this ordinance was passed or amended, but
which are prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this ordinance
or may be by future amendments hereto. All previously existing uses, lots and
structures which do not comply with the regulations in this ordinance and its
amendments, shall be deemed legal nonconforming (“grandfathered”) uses, lots
and structures.
   (B)   Illegal nonconforming uses.  A structure, lot or use that is
nonconforming and that was established or constructed without an approved
improvement location permit or approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals or
Plan Commission is considered illegal nonconforming. An illegal nonconforming
property shall be subject to actions and penalties allowed by this ordinance (
Chapter 10: Enforcement and Penalties) and all other applicable city
ordinances, and shall be altered to conform with all applicable standards and
regulations of this ordinance. Illegal uses existing at the time this ordinance
is enacted shall not be validated by virtue of its enactment.
   (C)   Legal nonconforming status.  Legal nonconforming status results from
the enactment of a unified development ordinance (UDO) or a change to the UDO,
including the official zoning map. The structure, lot or use has not changed
but due to the UDO enactment or change, the property no longer conforms to the
standards of the zoning district in which it is located. Legal nonconforming
lots, structures, uses and the like may continue in the manner and to the
extent that they existed or were used at the time the change in the UDO was
enacted provided that it does not, subsequent to the adoption of this
ordinance, become more nonconforming.
   (D)   Change in ownership.  A change in ownership shall not affect the legal
nonconforming status.
   (E)   Honoring previous permits.  Nothing herein contained shall require any
change in the plans for the construction or designated use of a building for
which a building permit or improvement location permit has been issued, and the
actual construction begun within 90 days of the date of the permit, and which
entire building shall be completed according to those plans filed or on file
before the effective date of this ordinance. Actual construction is hereby
defined as work done which is beyond the preparation stage and into that stage
where the changes or additions are made permanent.
   (F)   Regulations concerning nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Change in existing use.  A legal nonconforming use may be changed
to another legal nonconforming use of the same or greater restrictions,
provided the size of the structure is not increased.
      (2)   Conditional uses and conforming uses.  An existing use which is
listed herein as a conditional use, and which is located in a district in which
a conditional use may be permitted, is a conforming use; provided the use meets
the minimum lot area requirement set forth in this ordinance. Any expansion of
the conditional use involving the enlargement of buildings, structures and land
area devoted to the use, shall be subject to the requirements and procedure
described in this ordinance.
   (G)   Requirements for nonconforming uses and uses permitted by conditional
use or variance.  Any use which is nonconforming in the zoning district in
which it is located or is permitted by conditional use or variance shall be
consistent with the standards for the zoning district in which the use is
permitted by this ordinance. The Board of Zoning Appeals may specify the
appropriate standards for all uses permitted by conditional use or variance.
   (H)   Discontinuance of use.  If a nonconforming use of land or a building
discontinues active continuous operations for a period of one year or more, the
building or land where the nonconforming use existed shall be occupied and used
only for a conforming use.
   (I)   Damage to nonconforming use.  Any nonconforming use which, by fire,
flood, explosion, earthquake, war, riot or act of God or humans is damaged to
an extent of more than 50% of its then fair market replacement value above the
foundations at the time of the damage, shall not be reconstructed and used as
before the calamity; but if less than 50% is damaged, it may be reconstructed
or used, provided that the reconstruction or use be accomplished within 12
months of the calamity.
   (J)   Regulations concerning nonconforming structures/lots.
      (1)   Enforcement affect of other ordinances.  The legal nonconforming
status shall not affect the uniform enforcement of all other ordinances
designed for the protection of the health, welfare and safety of the citizens
of the city including, but not limited to, the fire, building and housing
codes. No permits shall be issued for other work or to expand the floor area or
add residential units to those legal nonconforming uses.
      (2)   Structural alteration or enlargement.  No nonconforming structure
shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy a greater area of land
than was occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
ordinance.
      (3)   Repairs and maintenance.
         (a)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance.  On any nonconforming
structure or portion of a structure, work may be done in any period of 12
consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of non-
bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding 10% of
the current replacement cost of the nonconforming structure and market value of
real estate, or nonconforming portion of the structure, whichever the case may
be, provided that the cubic content existing when it became nonconforming shall
not be increased.
         (b)   Buildings may be made safe.  Nothing in this ordinance shall
prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any part of any
building, either conforming or nonconforming, declared unsafe by proper
authority.
         (c)   Damage to nonconforming structure.  Any nonconforming structure
which, by fire, flood, explosion, earthquake, war, riot or act of God or humans
is damaged to an extent of more 50% of its replacement value above the
foundations, shall not be reconstructed and used as before the calamity; but if
less 50% is damaged, it may be reconstructed or used provided that the
reconstruction or use be accomplished within 12 months of the calamity.
   (K)   Nonconformity by public acquisition.  Any property, lot or structure
which is rendered nonconforming by the action of a governmental agency in
opening, closing, widening, paving or improvement of any street, shall absent
any other reason for nonconformity, be exempt from the nonconformance
provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   Exception.
      (1)   Expansions of existing structure.  A legal nonconforming single-
family or two-family residence and/or its accessory structures which are
located in a multifamily zoning district, but within an area that has developed
primarily as a residential neighborhood, may be expanded and the expansion
shall be for the purpose of continuing the residential use of the property. The
residential structure shall comply with the infill development requirements of
§
7.22(E).
      (2)   New construction.  Any legally established lot, as defined by this
ordinance, which exists in a residential neighborhood, located in a district in
which single- and/or two-family dwellings are no longer permitted by this
ordinance, shall be permitted to erect a single- or two-family dwelling with
permitted accessory buildings in compliance with the infill developments
requirements of §
7.22.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-07, passed 7-28-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Sign regulations for abandoned sign requirements, see Title XV, §
7.7
§ 3.2  NONCONFORMING LOTS; AREAS AND WIDTHS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   A single-family dwelling may be located on any lot in any district in which
single-family dwellings are permitted if the lot was a single parcel in single
ownership, or a single parcel included in a subdivision of record at the time
of passage of this ordinance even though the lot does not have the minimum lot
width or the minimum lot area specified for the district.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 3.3  NONCONFORMING SIGNS; LEGALLY NONCONFORMING.
   Any sign lawfully existing on the effective date of the unified development
ordinance, or amendment thereto, that does not conform to all the standards and
regulations of the unified development ordinance is considered a legal
nonconforming sign. The following apply to legal nonconforming signs.
   (A)   Pre-existing signs.  Signs that existed prior to the time the unified
development ordinance was adopted and were in conformance with previous
ordinances shall be legally nonconforming until a time a major change is made
to the sign. Major changes include changing the size, changing the height,
adding lights, altering light intensity and/or relocation.
   (B)   Sign condition.  All legal nonconforming signs shall be kept in good
repair, safe, neat, clean and attractive condition. In the event nonconforming
signs are not kept in that condition or are demolished by any force whatsoever
to the extent of 50% or more of the fair market value of the sign structure,
the signs shall then be made to conform to the unified development ordinance.
   (C)   Sign removal.  A nonconforming sign shall be removed by the owner or
lessee of the premises upon which the sign is located when the business it
advertises is no longer conducted on the premises. If the owner or lessee fails
to remove the sign, the Plan Commission or Planning and Zoning Administrator
shall give the owner a 30-day written notice to remove it. Upon failure to
comply with this notice, the Plan Commission or Administrator may remove the
sign at cost to the property owner or lessee.
   (D)   Major changes/replacement.  Legal nonconforming signs that are
structurally altered by a major change or replaced shall comply immediately
with all provisions of the unified development ordinance.
   (E)   Right-of-way acquisition.
      (1)   Existing conforming signs.  In the case of a legally established
sign that would become a legal nonconformity due to its setback from the new
right-of-way line or its position within a redefined sight visibility triangle
by virtue of the right-of-way acquisition by any government entity, the sign
shall be required to be relocated to a position that would bring it into
compliance with the regulations of §
7.2. The cost of the relocation should be factored into the price paid for the
additional right-of-way during the condemnation proceedings, and the property
owner or lessee shall be responsible for accomplishing the relocation within 90
days of receiving payment for the right-of-way.
      (2)   Existing legal nonconforming signs.  In the case of a legal
nonconforming sign for which the nonconformity is increased due to its setback
from the new right-of-way line or its position within a redefined sight
visibility triangle by virtue of right-of-way acquisition by any government
entity, the sign shall be required to be relocated to a position that would
bring it into compliance with the regulations of §§
7.2 and
7.7. The cost of the relocation should be factored into the price paid for the
additional right-of-way during the condemnation proceedings, and the property
owner or lessee shall be responsible for accomplishing the relocation within 90
days of receiving payment for the right-of-way.
      (3)   Existing illegal nonconforming signs.  In the case of illegal
nonconforming signs that may be discovered during right-of-way acquisition by
any government entity, the sign shall be removed at the cost of the property
owner or lessee.
   (F)   Annexation.  If land is annexed to the city, any sign upon the
annexation that does not conform to the sign standards at the time shall have
legal nonconforming status if:
      (1)   Under applicable federal, state, county and local regulations, the
sign was legal in all respects immediately prior to annexation; and
      (2)   The annexation was not conditioned upon the removal or modification
of the sign. Any sign not meeting these requirements is an illegal
nonconforming sign.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
CHAPTER 4:  ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
4.1   Establishment of zoning districts
   
4.2   Use matrix
   
4.3   Lot standards tables
   
4.4   Single-Family Residential (SF)
   
4.5   Single-Family Residential (SF1)
   
4.6   Single-Family Residential (SF2)
   
4.7   Single-Family Residential (SF3)
   
4.8   Traditional Residential (TR)
   
4.9   Multifamily Residential (MF)
   
4.10   Manufactured Home Park (MH)
   
4.11   Central Business (CB)
   
4.12   Neighborhood Business (NB)
   
4.13   Planned Business Commercial (PBC)
   
4.14   Planned Business Office (PBO)
   
4.15   Planned Business Industrial (PBI)
   
4.16   General Industrial (ID)
   
4.17   Institutional (IN)
   
4.18   Open Space (OS)
§ 4.1  ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Establishment of zoning districts.  For zoning purposes, the territory
within the city is hereby divided into the following classes of districts,
which either exist or are proposed to exist within the city. Each of the zoning
districts stands alone and is not part of a hierarchy-system of zoning. For
example, uses permitted in the NB District are not permitted in the PBC
District unless expressly listed as that in the PBC District. Only those uses
and standards that are expressly indicated and noted for each district apply to
that district. These districts, including PUD, are graphically represented on
the official zoning map dated December 10, 2007, which is hereby declared to be
a part of this chapter.
      (1)   Single-Family Residential (SF);
      (2)   Single-Family Residential (SF1);
      (3)   Single-Family Residential (SF2);
      (4)   Single-Family Residential (SF3);
      (5)   Traditional Residential (TR);
      (6)   Multifamily Residential (MF);
      (7)   Manufactured Home Park (MH);
      (8)   Central Business (CB);
      (9)   Neighborhood Business (NB);
      (10)   Planned Business Commercial (PBC);
      (11)   Planned Business Office (PBO);
      (12)   Planned Business Industrial (PBI);
      (13)   General Industrial (ID);
      (14)   Institutional (IN); and
      (15)   Open Space (OS).
   (B)   Planned Unit Development (PUD) District established.  The PUD District
is hereby established. This ordinance allows for any zoning district(s) to be
rezoned for the creation of a PUD. All PUDs shall be consistent with the
requirements of
Chapter 5: Planned Unit Development.
   (C)   Overlay Districts established.  The following Overlay Districts have
been established in order to provide additional enhancements to highly visible
corridors and to protect fragile natural environments or unique historic
character in the city. The Overlay Districts are detailed in
Chapter 6: Overlay Districts and include:
      (1)   Thoroughfare;
      (2)   Interstate; and
      (3)   Downtown.
   (D)   Subdivision of land.  The subdivision of land in every zoning district
shall be consistent with the provisions and requirements of
Chapter 8: Subdivision of Land of this ordinance.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Overlay Districts, see Title XV,
Chapter 6
   Planned Unit Development, see Title XV,
Chapter 5
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.2  USE MATRIX.
   (A)   Use matrix.
      (1)   For
Table 4.1: Use Matrix, specific uses located in the left column are designated
as either permitted uses “P” or conditional uses “C.” If there is no
designation, that use is not permitted within that district.
      (2)   A development plan is required for approval for all uses except for
those specifically labeled as such, including crop production, farm (general),
grazing and pasture land and infill development/minor subdivisions for single-
family and two-family residential uses.
   (B)   Explanation of use classifications.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Permitted uses are those uses allowed without special permission
of the Board of Zoning Appeals, given that they follow the standards and
requirements set forth in this ordinance.
         (b)   A PRINCIPAL USE is defined as the primary use to which a
property is devoted and as the main purpose for which the property exists. A
principal use may be authorized as either a permitted use or a conditional use.
      (2)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   CONDITIONAL USES are those uses that, because of potential
incompatibility and negative impact on the immediate neighborhood, require
additional review in order to determine compliance with city standards and to
determine their suitability in a given location.
         (b)   In order to achieve balance between the public benefit and the
local impact, conditional uses are only permitted following a public hearing
and approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals, as per
Chapter 2: Administration.
      (3)   Unlisted or questionable land uses.
         (a)   Any use not listed as a permitted use or conditional use within
the use matrix, is considered to be not permitted within the applicable zoning
district.
         (b)   The Administrator may determine where an unlisted use falls
within the use matrix if it is not specifically listed but is similar to
another use that is.
         (c)   This determination may be appealed to the Board of Zoning
Appeals consistent with the provisions of §
2.4.
Table 4.1: Use Matrix
Principal Land Use
P - Permitted Use      C - Conditional Use
 OS SF SF1 SF2 SF3 TR MF MH CB NB PBC PBO PBI ID IN
Table 4.1: Use Matrix
Principal Land Use
P - Permitted Use      C - Conditional Use
                                                          OS SF SF1 SF2 SF3 TR MF MH CB NB PBC PBO PBI ID IN
Agriculture
Agricultural product sales, distribution and storage      C  C
facility
Animal boarding/stables (excluding kennels) - minimum 3-  C* C
acre tract
Crop processing and storage (materials produced on-site)  P  P
Crop production ‡                                       P  P  P   P   P                  P   P   P   P  P
Farm (general) ‡                                        C  C
Farm co-op. facility                                      C  C
Farm equipment sales and service                          C  C                                         P
Farmer’s market (permanent)                             C  C  C           C        C  C  C
Fertilizer sales, distribution and storage                                                         P   P
Floriculture                                              C  C
Grazing and pasture land ‡                              C  C
Greenhouse (commercial) not exceeding 1,000 square feet   C  C
in area
Nursery, wholesale                                        C  C                                     C   C
Raising and breeding of non-farm fowl and animals,        C  C                                     C   P
commercially, except kennel
Seed sales, distribution and storage                                                       C       P   P
Viticulture (vineyard)                                    C  C
Communications/Utilities
Composting facility (indoor)                                                                           C  C
Composting facility (outdoor)                                                                          C  C
Garbage transfer station                                                                               C  C
Radio and television studios                                                               P   P   P      P
Recycling center                                                                                   P   P  C
Sanitary fill or refuse dump                                                                           C  C
Sewage treatment plant                                                                                 C  C
Telecommunications/radio/tele- vision tower                                                C   C   C   C  C
Utility company business office                                                      P  P  P   P   P   P  P
Utility substation                                                                   C  C  C   C   C   C  C
Water tower                                                                                        C   C  C
Wellfield/water treatment facility                                                                     C  C
Entertainment Services
Adult uses                                                                                             C
Banquet or assembly hall                                                             P  P  P   P   P      P
Bar or tavern or night club                                                          C  C  P   C   C
Billiard room or arcade                                                              C  C  P
Bowling alley                                                                        P  P  P
Dancing academy/martial arts/gymnastics studio                                       P  P  P       P      P
Lodge or private club                                                                P  P  P   P
Miniature golf course                                                                P  P  P
Outdoor commercial recreational enterprise (carnival,                                   C  C       C   C
amusement park and the like)
Recreational development (private)                        C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  C  C  C       C   C  C
Retreat center                                                                       P  P  P   P   P      P
Riding stable (commercial) - minimum 3-acre tract         P* P                             C       P      P
Seasonal fishing or hunting lodge                         C  C                                         C
Shooting range (outdoor)                                                                               C  C
Shooting/archery range (indoor)                                                            C       C   C  C
Skating rink (roller/ice)                                                            P  P  P       C      C
Swimming pool (private)                                   P  P  P   P   P   P  P  P  P  P  P
Swimming pool (public)                                    C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  C  C                 C
Theater (adult drive-in)                                                                               C
Theater (indoor), excluding adult motion picture theater                             P  P  P
and adult mini-motion picture theater
Theater (outdoor); excluding adult drive-in theater                                        C       C      P
Water park                                                                                 C              C
Winery                                                                               C  C  C       C
Equipment Services
Electric appliance shop                                                              P  P  P       P   P
Home electronics/appliance store                                                     P  P  P       P
Repair services (small appliances, jewelry, alterations                     C        P  P  P       P   P
and the like)
Food Sales and Service
Bakery (retail)                                                             C        P  P  P       P
Bakery (wholesale)                                                                         P       P   P
Coffee shop                                                                 C        P  P  P   P   P
Delicatessen                                                                C        P  P  P   P   P
Drive in/up restaurant                                                                  C  P
Meat market                                                                 C        P  P  P
Microbrewery/brew-pub                                                                P  P  P   C   C
Produce terminal, wholesale                                                                C       P   P
Restaurant                                                                           P  P  P   P   P
Institutional/Public Uses
Animal shelter                                            C  C                             C       C   C  C
Cemetery                                                  C  C                             C   C   C   C  C
Church or temple                                          C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  C  C  C   C   C      C
College building                                                                     C  C  C   C   C      C
Community center                                          C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  P  P  P              P
Crematory                                                                                          C   C  C
Fairgrounds                                                                                               P
Fire station or police station                            C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  P  P  P   P   P   P  P
Government facility (non-office)                                                     P  P  P   P   P   P  P
Government office                                                                    P  P  P   P   P   P  P
Hospital                                                                             C  P  P   P   P      P
Institution for the developmentally disabled/mentally ill                      C     C  C  C   C          P
Kindergarten or day nursery                               C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  P  P  P   P   C      P
Library                                                   C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  P  P  P   P          P
Museum or gallery                                                              C  C  P  P  P   P          P
Penal or correctional institution                                                                      C  C
Post office                                                                          P  P  P   P   P   P  P
Power generating plant                                                                                 C  C
School (any combination of K - 12), public and private    C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  C  C  C              P
Stadium or coliseum                                                                        C       C      C
Trade or business school                                                             C  C  C   P   C      P
University or college                                                                C  C  C   P   C      P
Park, Recreation and Natural Areas
Artificial lake of three or more acres                    C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  C  C  C   C   C   C  C
Campground/RV park                                        C  C                                         C  P
Country club/golf course/driving range                    C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C        C       C      C
Nature preserve/center                                    C  C                                            P
Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic   C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  C  C  C   C          P
facilities)
Personal Services
Barber shop                                                                 C        P  P  P   C
Beauty shop                                                                 C        P  P  P   C
Body art studios                                                                           C       C   C
Child care/day care center                                C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  P  P  P   P   P      P
Dry cleaning establishment (retail)                                         C        P  P  P   P   P
Fitness center                                                                       P  P  P   P   P
Funeral home                                                                         P  P  P
Health spa                                                                  C        P  P  P
Hotel/motel                                                                          P     P   P   P
Kennel                                                                                     C       C   C  C
Laundry (self-service)                                                      C        P  P  P
Laundry service (large-scale)                                                                      P   P
Massage therapy (by licensed massage therapist)                             C        P  P  P   P
Pharmacy                                                                    C        P  P  P   P   P
Photographic studio                                                         C        P  P  P
Shoe repair shop                                                            C        P  P  P       P
Tailor and pressing shop                                                    C        P  P  P       P
Tanning salon                                                               C        P  P  P
Professional Services
Administrative/professional office                                          C        P  P  P   P   P   C  P
Bank/financial institution                                                  C        P  P  P   P   P   C  P
Body art studio                                                                            C       C   C
Business/financial services office                                          C        P  P  P   P   P   C
Clinic (medical/dental) or health center                                    C        P  P  P   P          P
Conference center                                                                    P  P  P   P   P      P
Data processing/call center                                                          P  C  P   P   P   P  P
Employment service                                                                   P  P  P   P   P
Investment firm                                                                      P  P  P   P
Office building                                                                      P  P  P   P   P      P
Print shop/copy center                                                      C        P  P  P   P   P
Veterinary hospital for small animals                                                   P  P       P
Residential
Amenity area, subdivision                                    P  P   P   P   P  P  P
Bed and breakfast facility                                C  C                       C  C  C
Boarding house                                            C  C                       C  C  C              C
Child day care home                                       C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  C  C
Domestic pets                                             P  P  P   P   P   P  P  P
Dwelling, accessory apartment (“granny flat”)**       C  C  C   C   C   C        C  C
Dwelling multifamily                                                        P  P        C
Dwelling secondary (on upper floors of first-floor                          P  C     P  P  C
retail/office use)
Dwelling single-family (including manufactured homes)     P  P  P   P   P   P     P  P  P
**** ‡
Dwelling two-family **** ‡                                        C   P   P  P     P  P
Group home ***                                            C  C  C   C   C   C  C     C
Home occupation *****                                     C  P  P   P   P   P  P  P  P  P
Mobile home park/manufactured home park                                           P
Assisted living facility                                                    C  P     P  C  P              P
Nursing/convalescent home                                                      P     P  P  P
Residential facility for the developmentally disabled     C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C
type I ***
Residential facility for the develop- mentally disabled   C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  C  C
type II ***
Residential facility for the mentally ill ***             C  C  C   C   C   C  C  C  C  C
Retirement facility (senior housing)                                        C  P     P  C  P              P
Retail/Wholesale Sales
Antique shop                                                                C        P  P  P
Apparel shop                                                                C        P  P  P
Art or photo gallery                                                        C        P  P  P
Auction facility (excluding livestock)                                               P  P  P   P   P      P
Book store                                                                  C        P  P  P   P
Building finishes shop (paint, carpet, wallpaper and the                             P  P  P       P
like)
Building supply store                                                                      P       P   P
Construction services                                                                   C  P       P   P
Convenience store (without gas station)                                     C        P  P  P   P   P
Craft/fabric store                                                                   P  P  P
Department store, including any facility (whether or not
attached) associated with the department store for the
sale of tires, batteries, automobile accessories and                                 C  C  P
lubrication and for the servicing and repair of motor
vehicles incidental to those sales
Dressmaking                                                                 C        P  P  P
Farm equipment sales and service (enclosed)                                                P       P   P
Fireworks sales (permanent)                                                                            C
Flower shop                                                                 C        P  P  P
Garden shop/retail nursery                                                           P  P  P       P
Gift shop                                                                   C        P  P  P
Greenhouse, commercial                                                                             P   P
Grocery store                                                                        P  P  P
Hardware store                                                                       P  P  P
Ice cream shop                                                              C        P  P  P
Jewelry store                                                               C        P  P  P
Liquor store                                                                         P  P  P
Manufactured home sales                                                                    C           C  C
Newsdealer                                                                  C        P  P  P   P   P
Office supply store                                                                  P  P  P   P   P
Pet store                                                                            P  P  P
Record/CD/video/musical instrument shop                                              P  P  P
Roadside sales stand******                                C  C                             C           P
Shopping center                                                                      C  C  P
Shopping mall                                                                              P
Sporting goods shop                                                                  P  P  P
Stationery shop                                                             C        P  P  P
Supermarket                                                                          P  P  P
Variety store                                                                        P  P  P
Vendor, temporary (farmer’s market, street fair and the               P   P        P  P  P   P
like)******
Wholesale establishment                                                                    P       P
Transportation Services
Airport                                                                                        C   C   C  C
Airstrip (private)                                        C  C                                 C   C   C  C
Auto parts sales (without on-site repair)                                            P  C  P           P
Automobile filling station                                                           C  C  P   C   C   P
Automobile/motor vehicle repair, (major), engine
rebuilding or major reconditioning of motor vehicles,                                   C  C       C   P
including body work, frame or fender straightening or
repair, transmission repair and painting of vehicles.
Automobile/motor vehicle repair, (minor), including oil
changes/lubrications, brake replacement, muffler
replacement, tire servicing, radiator cleaning and                                   C  C  P       C   P
flushing, water hose replacement, windshield wipers and
the like
Automobile/motorcycle sales area and leasing (open)                                  P  P  P       C   P
Car wash                                                                             C  C  P   C   C   P
Heliport                                                                                       C   C   C  C
Mobile home sales area and leasing (open)                                                  C       C   P
Motor bus or railroad passenger station                                              C     C   C   C   C  C
Parking lot or structure (as a principal use)                                        C     C   C   C   C  C
Recreational vehicle sales and service                                                         C   C   P
Truck freight terminal                                                                             C   P
Truck sales and service center                                                                     C   C
Truck stop/travel center                                                                           C   C
Used motor vehicle & motorcycle sales                                                P  P  P       C   P
Warehousing/Industrial
Agricultural products terminal                                                                         P
Animal and animal products processing                                                                  C
Assembly facility                                                                                  P   P
Boat/RV storage facility (outdoor)                                                                 P   P
Bottle gas storage and distribution                                                                    C
Concrete/asphalt production facility                                                                   C
Contractor’s warehouse/storage facility (enclosed)                                       C       P   P
Contractor’s warehouse/storage facility (unenclosed)                                             C   P
Electronic processing                                                                              C   C
Explosive manufacturing and storage                                                                    C
Fabrication facility                                                                               P   P
Food and beverage production                                                                       P   P
General material product processing                                                                C   C
Heavy manufacturing                                                                                    C
Inoperable vehicle storage                                                                             C
Junk/scrap metal yard                                                                                  C
Light manufacturing                                                                                P   P
Lumber yard                                                                                C       C   P
Mineral extraction, borrow pit, top soil removal and                                                   C
their storage areas
Mini-warehouse self-storage facility                                                    C  C       P   P
Packaging facility                                                                                 P   P
Petroleum and chemical processing and storage                                                          C
Power generation facility (commercial)                                                             C   C
Printing/publishing facility                                                                       P   P
Research and development facility                                                              C   P   P
Semi-tractor/trailer storage                                                                       C   P
Tool and dye shop                                                                                  P   P
Truck terminal                                                                                     P   P
Warehouse/distribution facility                                                                    P   P
Waste incinerator                                                                                      C
*   10-acre minimum required
**   See §
7.10(B)
***   A minimum separation of 1,500 feet is required between locations
****   Development plan not required for infill residential development or minor residential subdivision
only; major residential subdivisions require a development plan
*****   Requires a home occupation permit, §
9.8
******   Requires a temporary vendor permit, §
9.10
‡   Does not requires a development plan
 
Editor's Note: Table 4.1 available in PDF, click HERE
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009; Ord. 2014-06,
passed 4-28-2014; Ord. 2015-14, passed 11-10-2015; Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-12-
2018)
§ 4.3  LOT STANDARDS TABLES.
   (A)   Purpose.  Development standards for each district dictate the maximum
permitted density, minimum lot size, minimum lot width and frontage, minimum
yard setbacks, maximum height, minimum ground floor area and maximum lot
coverage or intensity. These regulations for the zone districts of the city are
shown on
Table 4.2: Residential Districts Lot Standards and
Table 4.3: Nonresidential Districts Lot Standards.
   (B)   Interpreting the lot standards tables.  The following explanations of
terms should be consulted when interpreting
Table 4.2: Residential Districts Lot Standards and
Table 4.3: Nonresidential Districts Lot Standards. For more information on the
meaning of terms in this ordinance, see
Chapter 11: Definitions.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.  The smallest area established by this ordinance
on which a use, structure or building may be located in a particular district;
      (2)   Minimum lot width.  This refers to the minimum width a lot must
have in order to be considered developable by this ordinance. The horizontal
distance is measured between side lot lines at the building setback line;
      (3)   Minimum lot frontage.  The horizontal length of a lot measured
between side lot lines at the street right-of-way or private street easement.
All sides of a lot that abut a street are considered frontage;
      (4)   Front setback.  The minimum allowable distance between the street
right-of-way line and the facade of a principal building or structure projected
to the sides of the lot measured perpendicular to the front lot line. The front
setback applies to all frontages of a lot facing a street or right-of-way. For
residential districts the setback is based on the classification of the road on
which the building is located. The three road designations (arterial,
collector/local) are based on the Center Township Thoroughfare Plan;
      (5)   Side setback.  The minimum distance between the structure or
building and the side lot lines. However, for corner and through lots, a front
setback shall be maintained for any frontage of a lot upon a street;
      (6)   Rear setback.  The minimum distance between the structure or
building and the rear lot line. For through lots, the rear of the structure
facing a street shall meet front setback requirements;
      (7)   Agricultural adjacency setback (residential only).  This setback
line shall exist only on residential property that is adjacent to agricultural
uses, and only along the portions of the property line that are directly
adjacent to the agricultural uses. Plantings shall not occur within this
setback;
      (8)   Maximum height.  In all instances, the height of a structure shall
be measured from adjacent grade level to the highest point of the structure,
excluding the necessary appurtenances such as chimneys, church spires,
steeples, clock or bell towers, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire
towers, penthouses, stacks, tanks, water towers, transmission towers or
essential mechanical equipment not prohibited by other laws or further
provisions of this ordinance. No accessory structure located in a residential
zoning district may exceed the height of the principal structure on the
property. Certain height exceptions are permitted according to the provisions
of §
7.3;
      (9)   Maximum intensity (business and industrial only).  Maximum
intensity is shown as the highest permissible floor area ratio (FAR). This
ratio is found by adding up the total floor area for all floors of the building
and dividing that number by the total lot area;
      (10)   Maximum lot coverage.  The maximum ground area of a lot that can
be covered by principal and accessory structures or buildings (this includes
all impervious surfaces). For the purposes of this ordinance, parking areas
shall be included as a structure;
      (11)   Minimum total living area (residential only).  The sum of all
horizontal floor area, including each story, of a residential building,
exclusive of garages, porches, unfinished basements, unfinished attics, decks
or terraces;
      (12)   Required open space for subdivisions (residential only).  The
required amount of open space, measured as a percentage of net land area.
Required open space must be usable; and
      (13)   Minimum ground floor area (residential only).  The sum of the
horizontal floor area required on the ground level of a residential building,
exclusive of garages, porches, decks or terraces. A raised half story may be
included in this total.
   (C)   Living area.  Each single- and multifamily dwelling unit shall have
separate and individual kitchen and bathroom facilities unless as specified in
§
7.21(B).
   (D)   Lot standards table.  Lot standards are listed in the following tables
under each district heading. Provisions for parking, signs and landscaping are
set forth in
Chapter 7: Development Standards.
Table 4.2: Residential Districts Lot Standards
Regulation OS SF SF1 SF2 SF3 TR MF MH
Table 4.2: Residential Districts Lot Standards
Regulation          OS      SF     SF1    SF2   SF3   TR    MF        MH
Agricultural
adjacency setback   30      30     30     30    30    30    NA        NA
(ft.)
Front    Arterial   60      60     60     60    60    60    60        50 (park)
setback  Collector/ 35      25     25     25    25    20    40        15 (site)
(ft.)    local
Maximum height      35      35     35     35    35    35    45        35
(ft.)
Maximum lot
coverage for all    25%     35%    35%    35%   45%   70%   65%       50%
impervious surfaces
Minimum ground
floor living area   900     900    900    900   750   750   750       800
per unit (sq. ft.)
Minimum lot
frontage (ft.       150     75     50     40    40    30    50        50
measured at lot
line)
                                                            4,000 (1  5 ac
Minimum lot size                                            br) 5,000 (park)
(sq. ft. per unit)  2 acres 20,000 12,500 9,000 7,500 6,000 (2 br)    4,000
                                                            6,000 (3  (site)
                                                            br)
Minimum lot width                                                     100
(ft. measured at    300     125    100    75    65    50    100       (park) 30
setback line)                                                         (site)
Minimum total
living area per     2,500   2,500  2,000  1,500 1,200 750   750       800
unit (sq. ft.)
Rear setback (ft.)  50      25     20     20    15    15    30        50 (park)
                                                                      15 (site)
Required open space
for subdivisions    8%      8%     8%     10%   10%   12%   12%       12%
(percent of net
land area)
Side setback (ft.)  50      15     10     7.5*  7.5*  7.5*  50        50 (park)
                                                                      15 (site)
*   Minimum of 7.5 feet or at least 20% of the width of the lot
 
Table 4.3: Nonresidential Districts Lot Standards
Regulation CB NB PBC PBO PBI ID IN
Table 4.3: Nonresidential Districts Lot Standards
Regulation                         CB     NB     PBC PBO PBI     ID      IN
Front setback (ft.) ***            0      Min 15 50  50  50      100     50
                                          Max 50
Maximum height (ft.)               50     35     35  50  50      50      50
Maximum intensity (floor area      3      2      0.6 0.6 0.6     0.6     0.45
ratio)
Maximum lot coverage for all       100%   85%    75% 75% 75%     75%     50%
impervious surfaces
Minimum lot     Business           50
frontage (ft.                             30     100 100 150     150     100
measured at lot Residential        30
line)
Minimum lot size (sq. ft.
residential lot sizes are per      6,000* 6,000* -   -   5 acres 5 acres 1 acre
unit)
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at 50     50     100 100 200     200     100
setback line)
                Business or        5      15
Rear setback    industrial                       10  10  50      50      50
(ft.)           Single-family      15     15
                two-family
Side setback    Business or        0      0      15
(ft.) **        industrial                           15  25      50      25
                Residential        7.5    7.5    10
*   Allows secondary residential use, second story, minimum 600 sq. ft. per
unit
**   Additional bufferyard standards may apply
***   Refer to §
7.4 for additional setback standards
 
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-23-2008; Ord 2008-07,
passed 7-28-2008; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 4.4  SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (SF).
   (A)   District intent.  The SF (Single-Family Residential) zoning district
is intended to provide areas for low density, single-family residential land
uses developed in suburban-style subdivisions and as a transition between rural
areas and higher density residential development. These areas should be located
adjacent to existing developed areas and should be connected to available
infrastructure.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.
         (a)   Crop processing and storage (materials produced on-site); and
         (b)   Crop production.*
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Amenity area, subdivision;
         (b)   Domestic pets; and
         (c)   Dwelling single-family (including manufactured homes).*
      (3)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Riding stable (commercial) - minimum three-acre tract; and
         (b)   Swimming pool (private).
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.
         (a)   Agricultural product sales, distribution and storage facility;
         (b)   Animal boarding/stables (excluding kennels) - minimum three-acre
tract;
         (c)   Farm (general);*
         (d)   Farm co-op facility;
         (e)   Farm equipment sales and service;
         (f)   Farmer’s market (permanent);
         (g)   Floriculture;
         (h)   Grazing and pasture land;*
         (i)   Greenhouse (commercial) not exceeding 1,000 square feet in area;
         (j)   Nursery, wholesale;
         (k)   Raising and breeding of non-farm fowl and animals, commercially,
except kennel; and
         (l)   Viticulture (vineyard).
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast facility;
         (b)   Boarding house;
         (c)   Child day care home;
         (d)   Dwelling, accessory apartment (“granny flat”);
         (e)   Group home;
         (f)   Home occupation;
         (g)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type I;
         (h)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type II;
and
         (i)   Residential facility for the mentally ill.
      (3)   Transportation services.  Airstrip (private).
      (4)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres;
         (b)   Campground/RV park;
         (c)   Country club/golf course/driving range;
         (d)   Nature preserve/center; and
         (e)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (5)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Animal shelter;
         (b)   Cemetery;
         (c)   Church or temple;
         (d)   Community center;
         (e)   Fire station or police station;
         (f)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (g)   Library; and
         (h)   School (any combination of K - 12), public and private.
      (6)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Recreational development (private);
         (b)   Seasonal fishing or hunting lodge; and
         (c)   Swimming pool (public).
      (7)   Retail/wholesale sales.  Roadside sales stand.
      (8)   Personal services.  Child care/day care center.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Agricultural adjacency setback (ft.) - refer to graphic in this 30
subsection (D) below
Front setback (ft.)
   Arterial                                                  60
   Collector/local                                           25
Maximum height (ft.)                                            35
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces                35%
Minimum ground floor living area per unit (sq. ft.)             900
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)                 75
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)                             20,000
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line)                125
Minimum total living area per unit (sq. ft.)                    2,500
Rear setback (ft.)                                              25
Required open space for subdivisions (percent of net land area) 8%
Side setback (ft.)                                              15
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   Development plan required.
      (2)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Home occupation standards, see Title XV, §
7.12
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Lot standards, see Title XV, §
7.4
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.5  SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (SF1).
   (A)   District intent.  The SF1 (Single-Family Residential) zoning district
is intended to provide areas for single-family residential land uses developed
in suburban-style subdivisions. These areas should be located adjacent to
existing developed areas and should be connected to available infrastructure.
This District should be used to provide unique, rural housing options.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.  Crop production.*
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Amenity area, subdivision;
         (b)   Domestic pets; and
         (c)   Dwelling single-family (including manufactured homes).*
      (3)   Entertainment services.  Swimming pool (private).
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.  Farmer’s market (permanent).
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Child day care home;
         (b)   Dwelling, accessory apartment (“granny flat”);
         (c)   Group home;
         (d)   Home occupation;
         (e)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type I;
         (f)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type II;
and
         (g)   Residential facility for the mentally ill.
      (3)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres;
         (b)   Country club/golf course/driving range; and
         (c)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (4)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Church or temple;
         (b)   Community center;
         (c)   Fire station or police station;
         (d)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (e)   Library; and
         (f)   School (any combination of K - 12), public and private.
      (5)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Recreational development (private); and
         (b)   Swimming pool (public).
      (6)   Personal services.  Child care/day care center.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Agricultural adjacency setback (ft.) - refer to graphic in §   30
4.4(D)
Front setback (ft.)
   Arterial                                                  60
   Collector/local                                           25
Maximum height (ft.)                                            35
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces                35%
Minimum ground floor living area per unit (sq. ft.)             900
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)                 50
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)                             12,500
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line)                100
Minimum total living area per unit (sq. ft.)                    2,000
Rear setback (ft.)                                              20
Required open space for subdivisions (percent of net land area) 8%
Side setback (ft.)                                              10
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   Development plan required.
      (2)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Home occupation standards, see Title XV, §
7.12
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Lot standards, see Title XV, §
7.4
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.6  SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (SF2).
   (A)   District intent.  The SF2 (Single-Family Residential) zoning district
is intended to provide areas for single-family residential land uses developed
in suburban-style subdivisions. These areas should be located adjacent to
existing developed areas and should be connected to available infrastructure
(roads and utilities).
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.  Crop production.*
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Amenity area, subdivision;
         (b)   Domestic pets; and
         (c)   Dwelling single-family (including manufactured homes).*
      (3)   Entertainment services.  Swimming pool (private).
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Child day care home;
         (b)   Dwelling, accessory apartment (“granny flat”);
         (c)   Dwelling two-family;*
         (d)   Group home;
         (e)   Home occupation;
         (f)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type I;
         (g)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type II;
and
         (h)   Residential facility for the mentally ill.
      (2)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres;
         (b)   Country club/golf course/driving range; and
         (c)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (3)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Church or temple;
         (b)   Community center;
         (c)   Fire station or police station;
         (d)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (e)   Library; and
         (f)   School (any combination of K - 12), public and private.
      (4)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Recreational development (private); and
         (b)   Swimming pool (public).
      (5)   Personal services.  Child care/day care center.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Agricultural adjacency setback (ft.) - refer to graphic in §   30
4.4(D)
Front setback (ft.)
   Arterial                                                  60
   Collector/local                                           25
Maximum height (ft.)                                            35
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces                35%
Minimum ground floor living area per unit (sq. ft.)             900
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)                 40
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)                             9,000
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line)                75
Minimum total living area per unit (sq. ft.)                    1,500
Rear setback (ft.)                                              20
Required open space for subdivisions (percent of net land area) 10%
Side setback (ft.)                                              7.5
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   Development plan required.
      (2)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Home occupation standards, see Title XV, §
7.12
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Lot standards, see Title XV, §
7.4
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.7  SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (SF3).
   (A)   District intent.  The SF3 (Single-Family Residential) zoning district
is intended to provide for moderate density single-family and two-family
residential development on smaller lots than are permitted in the other SF
districts. This District is designed for areas close to urban development, and
shall be connected to existing infrastructure (streets and utilities).
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.  Crop production.*
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Amenity area, subdivision;
         (b)   Domestic pets;
         (c)   Dwelling single-family (including manufactured homes);* and
         (d)   Dwelling two-family.*
      (3)   Entertainment services.  Swimming pool (private).
      (4)   Retail/wholesale sales.  Vendor, temporary (farmer’s market, street
fair and the like).
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Child day care home;
         (b)   Dwelling, accessory apartment (“granny flat”);
         (c)   Group home;
         (d)   Home occupation;
         (e)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type I;
         (f)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type II;
and
         (g)   Residential facility for the mentally ill.
      (2)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres;
         (b)   Country club/golf course/driving range; and
         (c)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (3)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Church or temple;
         (b)   Community center;
         (c)   Fire station or police station;
         (d)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (e)   Library; and
         (f)   School (any combination of K - 12), public and private.
      (4)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Recreational development (private); and
         (b)   Swimming pool (public).
      (5)   Personal services.  Child care/day care center.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Agricultural adjacency setback (ft.) - refer to graphic in §   30
4.4(D)
Front setback (ft.)
   Arterial                                                  60
   Collector/local                                           25
Maximum height (ft.)                                            35
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces                45%
Minimum ground floor living area per unit (sq. ft.)             750
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)                 40
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)                             7,500
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line)                65
Minimum total living area per unit (sq. ft.)                    1,200
Rear setback (ft.)                                              15
Required open space for subdivisions (percent of net land area) 10%
Side setback (ft.)**                                            7.5
**   The combined total of the side setbacks shall equal at least 20% of the
width of the lot.
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   Development plan required.
      (2)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Home occupation standards, see Title XV, §
7.12
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Lot standards, see Title XV, §
7.4
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.8  TRADITIONAL RESIDENTIAL (TR).
   (A)   District intent.  The TR (Traditional Residential) zoning district is
intended to provide for single-family and two-family residential development in
a neo-traditional subdivision (§
8.1) or in the CB and NB Districts within the Downtown Overlay District. The
compact urban form utilizes a grid street pattern, smaller setbacks, on-street
parking and alley access to rear yards and rear-loading garages. This District
is designed for urban areas. These areas should be located adjacent to existing
development and near compatible infrastructure (streets and utilities).
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Amenity area, subdivision;
         (b)   Domestic pets;
         (c)   Dwelling multifamily;
         (d)   Dwelling secondary (on upper floors of first-floor retail/office
use);
         (e)   Dwelling single-family (including manufactured homes);* and
         (f)   Dwelling two-family.*
      (3)   Entertainment services.  Swimming pool (private).
      (4)   Retail/wholesale sales.  Vendor, temporary (farmer’s market, street
fair and the like).
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.  Farmer’s market (permanent).
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Child day care home;
         (b)   Dwelling, accessory apartment (“granny flat”);
         (c)   Group home;
         (d)   Home occupation;
         (e)   Assisted living facility;
         (f)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type I;
         (g)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type II;
         (h)   Residential facility for the mentally ill; and
         (i)   Retirement facility (senior housing).
      (3)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres;
         (b)   Country club/golf course/driving range; and
         (c)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (4)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Church or temple;
         (b)   Community center;
         (c)   Fire station or police station;
         (d)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (e)   Library; and
         (f)   School (any combination of K - 12), public and private.
      (5)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Recreational development (private); and
         (b)   Swimming pool (public).
      (6)   Professional services.
         (a)   Administrative/professional office;
         (b)   Bank/financial institution;
         (c)   Business/financial services office;
         (d)   Clinic (medical/dental) or health center; and
         (e)   Print shop/copy center.
      (7)   Retail/wholesale sales.
         (a)   Antique shop;
         (b)   Apparel shop;
         (c)   Art or photo gallery;
         (d)   Book store;
         (e)   Convenience store (without gas station);
         (f)   Dressmaking;
         (g)   Flower shop;
         (h)   Gift shop;
         (i)   Ice cream shop;
         (j)   Jewelry store;
         (k)   Newsdealer; and
         (l)   Stationery shop.
      (8)   Equipment services.  Repair services (small appliances, jewelry,
alterations and the like.)
      (9)   Food sales and service.
         (a)   Bakery (retail);
         (b)   Coffee shop;
         (c)   Delicatessen; and
         (d)   Meat market.
      (10)   Personal services.
         (a)   Barber shop;
         (b)   Beauty shop;
         (c)   Child care/day care center;
         (d)   Dry cleaning establishment (retail);
         (e)   Health spa;
         (f)   Laundry (self-service);
         (g)   Massage therapy (by licensed massage therapist);
         (h)   Pharmacy;
         (i)   Photographic studio;
         (j)   Shoe repair shop;
         (k)   Tailor and pressing shop; and
         (l)   Tanning salon.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Agricultural adjacency setback (ft.) - refer to graphic in §   30
4.4(D)
Front setback (ft.)
   Arterial                                                  60
   Collector/local                                           20
Maximum height (ft.)                                            35
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces                70%
Minimum ground floor living area per unit (sq. ft.)             750
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)                 30
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)                             6,000
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line)                50
Minimum total living area per unit (sq. ft.)                    750
Rear setback (ft.)                                              15
Required open space for subdivisions (percent of net land area) 12%
Side setback (ft.)**                                            7.5
**   The combined total of the side setbacks shall equal at least 20% of the
width of the lot
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   The Building or Fire Code Enforcement Official of the city shall
have the authority to require or increase a fire-protection rating in any
structural assembly of an approved multifamily dwelling or mixed-use occupancy
that includes a residential occupancy.
      (2)   Development plan required if TR District is part of a major
subdivision.
      (3)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Home occupation standards, see Title XV, §
7.12
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Lot standards, see Title XV, §
7.4
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.9  MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL (MF).
   (A)   District intent.  The MF (Multifamily Residential) zoning district is
intended to provide areas for large or small multifamily developments for a
variety of housing and ownership types such as two-family dwellings, townhomes,
apartment homes and condominiums. These higher density communities should be
located in areas with access to compatible infrastructure (streets and
utilities), commercial and recreational development.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Amenity area, subdivision;
         (b)   Domestic pets;
         (c)   Dwelling multifamily;
         (d)   Dwelling two-family;*
         (e)   Assisted living facility;
         (f)   Nursing/convalescent home; and
         (g)   Retirement facility (senior housing).
      (2)   Entertainment services.  Swimming pool (private).
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Child day care home;
         (b)   Dwelling secondary (on upper floors of first-floor retail/office
use);
         (c)   Group home;
         (d)   Home occupation;
         (e)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type I;
         (f)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type II;
and
         (g)   Residential facility for the mentally ill.
      (2)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres;
         (b)   Country club/golf course/driving range; and
         (c)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (3)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Church or temple;
         (b)   Community center;
         (c)   Fire station or police station;
         (d)   Institution for the developmentally disabled/mentally ill;
         (e)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (f)   Library;
         (g)   Museum or gallery; and
         (h)   School (any combination of K - 12), public and private.
      (4)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Recreational development (private); and
         (b)   Swimming pool (public).
      (5)   Personal services.  Child care/day care center.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Front setback (ft.)
   Arterial                                                  60
   Collector/local                                           40
Maximum height (ft.)                                            45
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces                65%
Minimum ground floor living area per unit (sq. ft.)             750
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)                 50
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)
   One bedroom                                               4,000
   Two bedrooms                                              5,000
   Three bedrooms                                            6,000
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line)                100
Minimum total living area per unit (sq. ft.)                    750
Rear setback (ft.)                                              30
Required open space for subdivisions (percent of net land area) 12%
Side setback (ft.)**                                            50
**   Minimum building separation shall be 25 ft.
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   The Building or Fire Code Enforcement Official of the city shall
have the authority to require or increase a fire-protection rating in any
structural assembly of an approved multifamily dwelling or mixed-use occupancy
that includes a residential occupancy.
      (2)   Requires development plan.
      (3)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Height standards, see Title XV, §
7.3
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Single-family to multifamily conversion standards, see Title XV, §
7.20
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.10  MANUFACTURED HOME PARK (MH).
   (A)   District intent.  The MH (Manufactured Home Park) zoning district is
intended to provide for leased-lot neighborhoods of manufactured homes. This
District should be used to establish and maintain locations for these
facilities near compatible infrastructure (streets and utilities), commercial
services, other high density housing or open space. These developments are
similar to multifamily developments with greater setbacks, smaller living
spaces and higher densities.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Amenity area, subdivision;
         (b)   Domestic pets;
         (c)   Dwelling single-family (including manufactured homes);* and
         (d)   Mobile home park/manufactured home park.
      (2)   Entertainment services.  Swimming pool (private).
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Child day care home;
         (b)   Home occupation;
         (c)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type I;
         (d)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type II;
and
         (e)   Residential facility for the mentally ill.
      (2)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres;
         (b)   Country club/golf course/driving range; and
         (c)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (3)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Church or temple;
         (b)   Community center;
         (c)   Fire station or police station;
         (d)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (e)   Library;
         (f)   Museum or gallery; and
         (g)   School (any combination of K - 12), public and private.
      (4)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Recreational development (private); and
         (b)   Swimming pool (public).
      (5)   Personal services.  Child care/day care center.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Front setback (ft.)
   Park                                                      50
   Site                                                      15
Maximum height (ft.)                                            35
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces                50%
Minimum ground floor living area per unit (sq. ft.)             800
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)                 50
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)
   Park                                                      5 acres
   Site                                                      4,000
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line)
   Park                                                      100
   Site                                                      30
Minimum total living area per unit (sq. ft.)                    800
Rear setback (ft.)
   Park                                                      50
   Site                                                      15
Required open space for subdivisions (percent of net land area) 12%
Side setback (ft.)
   Park                                                      50
   Site                                                      15
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   Development plan required for new manufactured home park
development.
      (2)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Manufactured home parks standards, see Title XV, §
7.19
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.11  CENTRAL BUSINESS (CB).
   (A)   District intent.  The CB (Central Business) zoning district covers the
central business district of the city. Its intent is to protect the unique
historic character of the downtown area while establishing the district as a
specialty business, residential and shopping district. This District is further
intended to permit the development of traditional mixed-use which would include
second story residential above commercial. This District should be protected
from non-neighborhood serving land uses such as “big box” or other more
regional retail uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Dwelling secondary (on upper floors of first-floor retail/office
use);
         (b)   Dwelling single-family (including manufactured homes);*
         (c)   Dwelling two-family;*
         (d)   Assisted living facility;
         (e)   Nursing/convalescent home; and
         (f)   Retirement facility (senior housing).
      (2)   Transportation services.
         (a)   Auto parts sales (without on-site repair); and
         (b)   Automobile/motorcycle sales area and leasing (open).
      (3)   Communications/utilities.  Utility company business office.
      (4)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Community center;
         (b)   Fire station or police station;
         (c)   Government facility (non-office);
         (d)   Government office;
         (e)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (f)   Library;
         (g)   Museum or gallery; and
         (h)   Post office.
      (5)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Banquet or assembly hall;
         (b)   Bowling alley;
         (c)   Dancing academy/martial arts/gymnastics studio;
         (d)   Lodge or private club;
         (e)   Miniature golf course;
         (f)   Retreat center;
         (g)   Skating rink (roller/ice);
         (h)   Swimming pool (private); and
         (i)   Theater (indoor), excluding adult motion picture theater and
adult mini-motion picture theater.
      (6)   Professional services.
         (a)   Administrative/professional office;
         (b)   Bank/financial institution;
         (c)   Business/financial services office;
         (d)   Clinic (medical/dental) or health center;
         (e)   Conference center;
         (f)   Data processing/call center;
         (g)   Employment service;
         (h)   Hotel/motel;
         (i)   Investment firm;
         (j)   Office building; and
         (k)   Print shop/copy center.
      (7)   Retail/wholesale sales.
         (a)   Antique shop;
         (b)   Apparel shop;
         (c)   Art or photo gallery;
         (d)   Auction facility (excluding livestock);
         (e)   Book store;
         (f)   Building finishes shop (paint, carpet, wallpaper and the like);
         (g)   Convenience store (without gas station);
         (h)   Craft/fabric store;
         (i)   Dressmaking;
         (j)   Flower shop;
         (k)   Garden shop/retail nursery;
         (l)   Gift shop;
         (m)   Grocery store;
         (n)   Hardware store;
         (o)   Ice cream shop;
         (p)   Jewelry store;
         (q)   Liquor store;
         (r)   Newsdealer;
         (s)   Office supply store;
         (t)   Pet store;
         (u)   Record/CD/video/musical instrument shop;
         (v)   Shopping mall;
         (w)   Sporting goods shop;
         (x)   Stationery shop;
         (y)   Supermarket;
         (z)   Variety store; and
         (aa)   Vendor, temporary (farmer’s market, street fair and the like).
      (8)   Equipment services.
         (a)   Electric appliance shop;
         (b)   Home electronics/appliance store; and
         (c)   Repair services (small appliances, jewelry, alterations and the
like).
      (9)   Food sales and service.
         (a)   Bakery (retail);
         (b)   Coffee shop;
         (c)   Delicatessen;
         (d)   Meat market;
         (e)   Microbrewery/brew-pub; and
         (f)   Restaurant.
      (10)   Personal services.
         (a)   Barber shop;
         (b)   Beauty shop;
         (c)   Child care/day care center;
         (d)   Dry cleaning establishment (retail);
         (e)   Fitness center;
         (f)   Funeral home;
         (g)   Health spa;
         (h)   Laundry (self-service);
         (i)   Massage therapy (by licensed massage therapist);
         (j)   Pharmacy;
         (k)   Photographic studio;
         (l)   Shoe repair shop;
         (m)   Tailor and pressing shop; and
         (n)   Tanning salon.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.  Farmer’s market (permanent).
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast facility;
         (b)   Boarding house;
         (c)   Child day care home;
         (d)   Dwelling, accessory apartment (“granny flat”);
         (e)   Group home;
         (f)   Home occupation;
         (g)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type II;
and
         (h)   Residential facility for the mentally ill.
      (3)   Transportation services.
         (a)   Automobile filling station;
         (b)   Automobile/motor vehicle repair, (minor), including oil changes/
lubrications, brake replacement, muffler replacement, tire servicing, radiator
cleaning and flushing, water hose replacement, windshield wipers and the like;
         (c)   Car wash;
         (d)   Motor bus or railroad passenger station; and
         (e)   Parking lot or structure (as a principal use).
      (4)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres;
         (b)   Country club/golf course/driving range; and
         (c)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (5)   Communications/utilities.  Utility substation.
      (6)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Church or temple;
         (b)   College building;
         (c)   Hospital;
         (d)   Institution for the developmentally disabled/mentally ill;
         (e)   School (any combination of K - 12), public and private;
         (f)   Trade or business school; and
         (g)   University or college.
      (7)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Bar or tavern or night club;
         (b)   Billiard room or arcade;
         (c)   Recreational development (private);
         (d)   Swimming pool (public); and
         (e)   Winery.
      (8)   Retail/wholesale sales.
         (a)   Department store, including any facility (whether or not
attached) associated with the department store for the sale of tires,
batteries, automobile accessories and lubrication and for the servicing and
repair of motor vehicles incidental to those sales; and
         (b)   Shopping center.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Front setback (ft.)                              0
Maximum height (ft.)                             50
Maximum intensity (floor area ratio)             3.0
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces 100%
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)
   Business                                   50
   Residential                                30
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)**            6,000
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line) 50
Rear setback (ft.)
   Business/industrial                        5
   Single-family/two-family                   15
Side setback (ft.)
   Business/industrial                        0
   Residential                                7.5
*  Allows secondary residential use, second story, minimum 600 square feet per
unit
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   A certificate (§
9.12 Certificate of Compliance with Safety Codes) shall be required for change
of tenant or use and conversions of residential to: commercial; multifamily; or
dwellings with mixed-use occupancy.
      (2)   The Building or Fire Code Enforcement Official of the city shall
have the authority to require or increase a fire-protection rating in any
structural assembly of an approved multifamily dwelling or mixed-use occupancy
that includes a residential occupancy.
      (3)   Development plan required.
      (4)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Downtown Overlay District, see Title XV, §
6.3
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Outdoor sales, display and storage, Title XV, §
7.13
   Sign regulations, see Title XV, §
7.7
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.12  NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS (NB).
   (A)   District intent.  The NB (Neighborhood Business) zoning district is a
mixed-use neighborhood district in close proximity to downtown and with close
proximity to convenience goods, services and amenities. Lot sizes are smaller
and density higher than other residential districts. This District could permit
the development of mixed-use. This District should be protected from non-
neighborhood serving land uses such as “big box” retail uses or other non-
compatible commercial or industrial uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Dwelling secondary (on upper floors of first-floor retail/office
use);
         (b)   Dwelling single-family (including manufactured homes);*
         (c)   Dwelling two-family;* and
         (d)   Nursing/convalescent home.
      (2)   Transportation services.  Automobile/motorcycle sales area and
leasing (open).
      (3)   Communications/utilities.  Utility company business office.
      (4)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Community center;
         (b)   Fire station or police station;
         (c)   Government facility (non-office);
         (d)   Government office;
         (e)   Hospital;
         (f)   Kindergarten or day nursery library;
         (g)   Museum or gallery; and
         (h)   Post office.
      (5)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Banquet or assembly hall;
         (b)   Bowling alley;
         (c)   Dancing academy/martial arts/gymnastics studio;
         (d)   Lodge or private club;
         (e)   Miniature golf course;
         (f)   Retreat center;
         (g)   Skating rink (roller/ice);
         (h)   Swimming pool (private); and
         (i)   Theater (indoor), excluding adult motion picture theater and
adult mini-motion picture theater.
      (6)   Professional services.
         (a)   Administrative/professional office;
         (b)   Bank/financial institution;
         (c)   Business/financial services office;
         (d)   Clinic (medical/dental) or health center;
         (e)   Conference center;
         (f)   Employment service;
         (g)   Investment firm;
         (h)   Office building;
         (i)   Print shop/copy center; and
         (j)   Veterinary hospital for small animals.
      (7)   Retail/wholesale sales.
         (a)   Antique shop;
         (b)   Apparel shop;
         (c)   Art or photo gallery;
         (d)   Auction facility (excluding livestock);
         (e)   Book store;
         (f)   Building finishes shop (paint, carpet, wallpaper and the like);
         (g)   Convenience store (without gas station);
         (h)   Craft/fabric store;
         (i)   Dressmaking;
         (j)   Flower shop;
         (k)   Garden shop/retail nursery;
         (l)   Gift shop;
         (m)   Grocery store;
         (n)   Hardware store;
         (o)   Ice cream shop;
         (p)   Jewelry store;
         (q)   Liquor store;
         (r)   Newsdealer;
         (s)   Office supply store;
         (t)   Pet store;
         (u)   Record/CD/video/musical instrument shop;
         (v)   Sporting goods shop;
         (w)   Stationery shop;
         (x)   Supermarket;
         (y)   Variety store; and
         (z)   Vendor, temporary (farmer’s market, street fair and the like).
      (8)   Equipment services.
         (a)   Electric appliance shop;
         (b)   Home electronics/appliance store; and
         (c)   Repair services (small appliances, jewelry, alterations and the
like).
      (9)   Food sales and service.
         (a)   Bakery (retail);
         (b)   Coffee shop;
         (c)   Delicatessen;
         (d)   Meat market;
         (e)   Microbrewery/brew-pub; and
         (f)   Restaurant.
      (10)   Personal services.
         (a)   Barber shop;
         (b)   Beauty shop;
         (c)   Child care/day care center;
         (d)   Dry cleaning establishment (retail);
         (e)   Fitness center;
         (f)   Funeral home;
         (g)   Health spa;
         (h)   Laundry (self-service);
         (i)   Massage therapy (by licensed massage therapist);
         (j)   Pharmacy;
         (k)   Photographic studio;
         (l)   Shoe repair shop;
         (m)   Tailor and pressing shop; and
         (n)   Tanning salon.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.  Farmer’s market (permanent).
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast facility;
         (b)   Boarding house;
         (c)   Child day care home;
         (d)   Dwelling, accessory apartment (“granny flat”);
         (e)   Dwelling multifamily;
         (f)   Home occupation;
         (g)   Assisted living facility residential facility for the
developmentally disabled type II;
         (h)   Residential facility for the mentally ill; and
         (i)   Retirement facility (senior housing).
      (3)   Transportation services.
         (a)   Auto parts sales (without on-site repair);
         (b)   Automobile filling station;
         (c)   Automobile/motor vehicle repair, (major), engine rebuilding or
major reconditioning of motor vehicles, including body work, frame or fender
straightening or repair, transmission repair and painting of vehicles;
         (d)   Automobile/motor vehicle repair, (minor), including oil changes/
lubrications, brake replacement, muffler replacement, tire servicing, radiator
cleaning and flushing, water hose replacement, windshield wipers and the like;
and
         (e)   Car wash.
      (4)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres; and
         (b)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (5)   Communications/utilities.  Utility substation.
      (6)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Church or temple;
         (b)   College building;
         (c)   Institution for the developmentally disabled/mentally ill school
(any combination of K - 12), public and private;
         (d)   Trade or business school; and
         (e)   University or college.
      (7)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Bar or tavern or night club;
         (b)   Billiard room or arcade;
         (c)   Outdoor commercial recreational enterprise (carnival, amusement
park and the like);
         (d)   Recreational development (private);
         (e)   Swimming pool (public); and
         (f)   Winery.
      (8)   Professional services.  Data processing/call center.
      (9)   Retail/wholesale sales.
         (a)   Construction services;
         (b)   Department store, including any facility (whether or not
attached) associated with the department store for the sale of tires,
batteries, automobile accessories and lubrication and for the servicing and
repair of motor vehicles incidental to those sales; and
         (c)   Shopping center.
      (10)   Food sales and service.  Drive through restaurant.
      (11)   Warehousing/industrial.  Mini-warehouse self-storage facility.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Front setback (ft.)
   Minimum                                    15
   Maximum                                    30
Maximum height (ft.)                             35
Maximum intensity (floor area ratio)             2.0
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces 85%
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)  30
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)**            6,000
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line) 50
Rear setback (ft.)
   Business/industrial                        15
   Single-family/two-family                   15
Side setback (ft.)
   Business/industrial                        0
   Residential                                7.5
**   Allows secondary residential use, second story, minimum 600 sq. ft per
unit
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   The Building or Fire Code Enforcement Official of the city shall
have the authority to require or increase a fire-protection rating in any
structural assembly of an approved multifamily dwelling or mixed-use occupancy
that includes a residential occupancy.
      (2)   Development plan required.
      (3)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Outdoor sales, display and storage, Title XV, §
7.13
   Sign regulations, see Title XV, §
7.7
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.13  PLANNED BUSINESS COMMERCIAL (PBC).
   (A)   District intent.  The PBC (Planned Business Commercial) zoning
district is designed to encourage well-planned commercial uses, particularly
with respect to unified design, safe ingress and egress, adequate and properly
located parking and service facilities and convenient and safe pedestrian
accessibility on visually prominent and high use corridors throughout the city.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.  Crop production.*
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Assisted living facility;
         (b)   Nursing/convalescent home; and
         (c)   Retirement facility (senior housing).
      (3)   Transportation services.
         (a)   Auto parts sales (without on-site repair);
         (b)   Automobile filling station;
         (c)   Automobile/motor vehicle repair, (minor), including oil changes/
lubrications, brake replacement, muffler replacement, tire servicing, radiator
cleaning and flushing, water hose replacement, windshield wipers and the like;
         (d)   Automobile/motorcycle sales area and leasing (open); and
         (e)   Car wash.
      (4)   Communications/utilities.
         (a)   Radio and television studios; and
         (b)   Utility company business office.
      (5)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Community center;
         (b)   Fire station or police station;
         (c)   Government facility (non-office);
         (d)   Government office;
         (e)   Hospital;
         (f)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (g)   Library;
         (h)   Museum or gallery; and
         (i)   Post office.
      (6)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Banquet or assembly hall;
         (b)   Bar or tavern or night club;
         (c)   Billiard room or arcade;
         (d)   Bowling alley;
         (e)   Dancing academy/martial arts/gymnastics studio;
         (f)   Lodge or private club;
         (g)   Miniature golf course;
         (h)   Retreat center;
         (i)   Skating rink (roller/ice);
         (j)   Swimming pool (private); and
         (k)   Theater (indoor), excluding adult motion picture theater and
adult mini-motion picture theater.
      (7)   Professional services.
         (a)   Administrative/professional office;
         (b)   Bank/financial institution;
         (c)   Business/financial services office;
         (d)   Clinic (medical/dental) or health center;
         (e)   Conference center;
         (f)   Data processing/call center;
         (g)   Employment service;
         (h)   Hotel/motel;
         (i)   Investment firm;
         (j)   Office building;
         (k)   Print shop/copy center; and
         (l)   Veterinary hospital for small animals.
      (8)   Retail/wholesale sales.
         (a)   Antique shop;
         (b)   Apparel shop;
         (c)   Art or photo gallery;
         (d)   Auction facility (excluding livestock);
         (e)   Book store;
         (f)   Building finishes shop (paint, carpet, wallpaper and the like);
         (g)   Building supply store;
         (h)   Construction services;
         (i)   Convenience store (without gas station);
         (j)   Craft/fabric store;
         (k)   Department store, including any facility (whether or not
attached) associated with the department store for the sale of tires,
batteries, automobile accessories and lubrication and for the servicing and
repair of motor vehicles incidental to those sales;
         (l)   Dressmaking;
         (m)   Farm equipment sales and service (enclosed);
         (n)   Flower shop;
         (o)   Garden shop/retail nursery;
         (p)   Gift shop;
         (q)   Grocery store;
         (r)   Hardware store;
         (s)   Ice cream shop;
         (t)   Jewelry store;
         (u)   Liquor store;
         (v)   Newsdealer;
         (w)   Office supply store;
         (x)   Pet store;
         (y)   Record/CD/video/musical instrument;
         (z)   Shop shopping center;
         (aa)   Shopping mall;
         (bb)   Sporting goods shop;
         (cc)   Stationery shop;
         (dd)   Supermarket;
         (ee)   Variety store;
         (ff)   Vendor, temporary (farmer’s market, street fair and the like);
and
         (gg)   Wholesale establishment.
      (9)   Equipment services.
         (a)   Electric appliance shop;
         (b)   Home electronics/appliance store; and
         (c)   Repair services (small appliances, jewelry, alterations and the
like).
      (10)   Food sales and service.
         (a)   Bakery (retail);
         (b)   Bakery (wholesale);
         (c)   Coffee shop;
         (d)   Delicatessen;
         (e)   Drive through restaurant;
         (f)   Meat market;
         (g)   Microbrewery/brew-pub; and
         (h)   Restaurant.
      (11)   Personal services.
         (a)   Barber shop;
         (b)   Beauty shop;
         (c)   Child care/day care center;
         (d)   Dry cleaning establishment (retail);
         (e)   Fitness center;
         (f)   Funeral home;
         (g)   Health spa;
         (h)   Laundry (self-service);
         (i)   Massage therapy (by licensed massage therapist);
         (j)   Pharmacy;
         (k)   Photographic studio;
         (l)   Shoe repair shop;
         (m)   Tailor and pressing shop; and
         (n)   Tanning salon.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.
         (a)   Farmer’s market (permanent); and
         (b)   Seed sales, distribution and storage.
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast facility;
         (b)   Boarding house; and
         (c)   Dwelling secondary (on upper floors of first-floor retail/office
use).
      (3)   Transportation services.
         (a)   Automobile/motor vehicle repair, (major), engine rebuilding or
major reconditioning of motor vehicles, including body work, frame or fender
straightening or repair, transmission repair and painting of vehicles;
         (b)   Mobile home sales area and leasing (open);
         (c)   Motor bus or railroad passenger station; and
         (d)   Parking lot or structure (as a principal use).
      (4)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres;
         (b)   Country club/golf course/driving range; and
         (c)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (5)   Communications/utilities.
         (a)   Telecommunications/radio/television tower; and
         (b)   Utility substation.
      (6)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Animal shelter;
         (b)   Cemetery;
         (c)   Church or temple;
         (d)   College building;
         (e)   Institution for the developmentally disabled/mentally ill;
         (f)   Power generating plant;
         (g)   School (any combination of K - 12), public and private;
         (h)   Stadium or coliseum;
         (i)   Trade or business school; and
         (j)   University or college.
      (7)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Outdoor commercial recreational enterprise (carnival, amusement
park and the like);
         (b)   Recreational development (private);
         (c)   Riding stable (commercial) - minimum three-acre tract;
         (d)   Shooting/archery range (indoor);
         (e)   Skating rink (roller/ice);
         (f)   Swimming pool (private); and
         (g)   Theater (indoor), excluding adult motion picture theater and
adult mini-motion picture theater.
      (8)   Retail/wholesale sales.
         (a)   Manufactured home sales; and
         (b)   Roadside sales stand.
      (9)   Food sales and service.  Produce terminal, wholesale.
      (10)   Personal services.
         (a)   Body art studios located in the PBC, PBI and ID Districts; and
         (b)   Kennel.
      (11)   Warehousing/industrial.
         (a)   Contractor’s warehouse/storage facility (enclosed);
         (b)   Lumber yard; and
         (c)   Mini-warehouse self-storage facility.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Front setback (ft.)                              50
Maximum height (ft.)                             35
Maximum intensity (floor area ratio)             0.6
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces 75%
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)  100
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line) 100
Rear setback (ft.)                               10
Side setback (ft.)
   Business/industrial                        15
   Residential                                10
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   Development plan required.
      (2)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-23-2008; Ord. 2008-07,
passed 7-28-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Outdoor sales, display and storage, see Title XV, §
7.13
   Sign regulations, see Title XV,
7.7
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.14  PLANNED BUSINESS OFFICE (PBO).
   (A)   District intent.  The PBO (Planned Business Office) zoning district is
intended for professional office development as well as limited service and
retail uses to meet the needs of the district’s employees.
The PBO district layout should encourage well-planned office communities with
cohesive design elements, vehicular and pedestrian access and parking
facilities.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.  Crop production.*
      (2)   Communications/utilities.
         (a)   Radio and television studios; and
         (b)   Utility company business office.
      (3)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Fairgrounds;
         (b)   Fire station or police station;
         (c)   Government facility (non-office);
         (d)   Government office;
         (e)   Hospital;
         (f)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (g)   Library;
         (h)   Museum or gallery;
         (i)   Post office;
         (j)   Trade or business school; and
         (k)   University or college.
      (4)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Banquet or assembly hall;
         (b)   Lodge or private club; and
         (c)   Retreat center.
      (5)   Professional services.
         (a)   Administrative/professional office;
         (b)   Bank/financial institution;
         (c)   Business/financial services office;
         (d)   Clinic (medical/dental) or health center;
         (e)   Conference center;
         (f)   Data processing/call center;
         (g)   Employment service;
         (h)   Hotel/motel;
         (i)   Investment firm;
         (j)   Office building; and
         (k)   Print shop/copy center.
      (6)   Retail/wholesale sales.
         (a)   Auction facility (excluding livestock);
         (b)   Book store;
         (c)   Convenience store (without gas station);
         (d)   Newsdealer;
         (e)   Office supply store; and
         (f)   Vendor, temporary (farmer’s market, street fair and the like).
      (7)   Food sales and service.
         (a)   Coffee shop;
         (b)   Delicatessen; and
         (c)   Restaurant.
      (8)   Personal services.
         (a)   Child care/day care center;
         (b)   Dry cleaning establishment (retail);
         (c)   Fitness center;
         (d)   Massage therapy (by licensed massage therapist); and
         (e)   Pharmacy.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Transportation services.
         (a)   Airport;
         (b)   Airstrip (private);
         (c)   Automobile filling station;
         (d)   Car wash;
         (e)   Heliport;
         (f)   Motor bus or railroad passenger station;
         (g)   Parking lot or structure (as a principal use); and
         (h)   Recreational vehicle sales and service.
      (2)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres; and
         (b)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (3)   Communications/utilities.
         (a)   Telecommunications/radio/television tower; and
         (b)   Utility substation.
      (4)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Cemetery;
         (b)   Church or temple;
         (c)   College building; and
         (d)   Institution for the developmentally disabled/mentally ill.
      (5)   Entertainment services.  Bar or tavern or night club.
      (6)   Food sales and service.  Microbrewery/brew-pub.
      (7)   Personal services.
         (a)   Barber shop; and
         (b)   Beauty shop.
      (8)   Warehousing/industrial.  Research and development facility.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Front setback (ft.)                              50
Maximum height (ft.)                             50
Maximum intensity (floor area ratio)             0.6
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces 75%
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)  100
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line) 100
Rear setback (ft.)                               10
Side setback (ft.)                               15
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   Development plan required.
      (2)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-07, passed 7-28-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Outdoor sales, display and storage, see Title XV, §
7.13
   Sign regulations, see Title XV,
7.7
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.15  PLANNED BUSINESS INDUSTRIAL (PBI).
   (A)   District intent.  The PBI (Planned Business Industrial) zoning
district is intended to provide locations for production, small-scale
manufacturing, assembly, warehousing, research and development facilities and
similar land uses. This District is intended to accommodate only industrial
uses that are completely contained within structures and do not involve the
outdoor storage of materials or the release of potential environmental
pollutants. This District should be used to support industrial retention and
expansion in the city.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.
         (a)   Crop production;* and
         (b)   Fertilizer sales, distribution and storage seed sales,
distribution and storage.
      (2)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres;
         (b)   Campground/RV park;
         (c)   Country club/golf course/driving range; and
         (d)   Nature preserve/center park or recreational facility
(playgrounds and athletic facilities).
      (3)   Communications/utilities.
         (a)   Radio and television studios;
         (b)   Recycling center; and
         (c)   Utility company business office.
      (4)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Fire station or police station;
         (b)   Government facility (non-office);
         (c)   Government office;
         (d)   Hospital; and
         (e)   Post office.
      (5)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Banquet or assembly hall;
         (b)   Dancing academy/martial arts/gymnastics studio;
         (c)   Retreat center; and
         (d)   Riding stable (commercial) - minimum three-acre tract.
      (6)   Professional services.
         (a)   Administrative/professional office;
         (b)   Bank/financial institution;
         (c)   Business/financial services office;
         (d)   Conference center;
         (e)   Data processing/call center;
         (f)   Employment service;
         (g)   Hotel/motel;
         (h)   Office building;
         (i)   Print shop/copy center; and
         (j)   Veterinary hospital for small animals.
      (7)   Retail/wholesale sales.
         (a)   Auction facility (excluding livestock);
         (b)   Building finishes shop (paint, carpet, wallpaper and the like);
         (c)   Building supply store;
         (d)   Construction services;
         (e)   Convenience store (without gas station);
         (f)   Farm equipment sales and service (enclosed);
         (g)   Garden shop/retail nursery;
         (h)   Greenhouse, commercial;
         (i)   Newsdealer;
         (j)   Office supply store; and
         (k)   Wholesale establishment.
      (8)   Equipment services.
         (a)   Electric appliance shop;
         (b)   Home electronics/appliance store; and
         (c)   Repair services (small appliances, jewelry, alterations and the
like).
      (9)   Food sales and service.
         (a)   Bakery (retail);
         (b)   Bakery (wholesale);
         (c)   Coffee shop;
         (d)   Delicatessen;
         (e)   Produce terminal, wholesale; and
         (f)   Restaurant.
      (10)   Personal services.
         (a)   Child care/day care center;
         (b)   Dry cleaning establishment (retail);
         (c)   Fitness center;
         (d)   Laundry service (large-scale);
         (e)   Pharmacy;
         (f)   Shoe repair shop; and
         (g)   Tailor and pressing shop.
      (11)   Warehousing/industrial.
         (a)   Assembly facility;
         (b)   Boat/RV storage facility (outdoor);
         (c)   Contractor’s warehouse/storage facility (enclosed);
         (d)   Fabrication facility;
         (e)   Food and beverage production;
         (f)   Manufacturing, light;
         (g)   Mini-warehouse self-storage facility;
         (h)   Packaging facility;
         (i)   Printing/publishing facility;
         (j)   Research and development facility;
         (k)   Tool and dye shop;
         (l)   Truck terminal; and
         (m)   Warehouse/distribution facility.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.
         (a)   Nursery, wholesale; and
         (b)   Raising and breeding of non-farm fowl and animals, commercially,
except kennel.
      (2)   Transportation services.
         (a)   Airport;
         (b)   Airstrip (private);
         (c)   Automobile filling station;
         (d)   Automobile/motor vehicle repair, (major), engine rebuilding or
major reconditioning of motor vehicles, including body work, frame or fender
straightening or repair, transmission repair and painting of vehicles;
         (e)   Automobile/motor vehicle repair, (minor), including oil changes/
lubrications, brake replacement, muffler replacement, tire servicing, radiator
cleaning and flushing, water hose replacement, windshield wipers, and the like;
         (f)   Automobile/motorcycle sales area and leasing (open);
         (g)   Mobile home sales area and leasing (open);
         (h)   Car wash;
         (i)   Heliport;
         (j)   Motor bus or railroad passenger station;
         (k)   Parking lot or structure (as a principal use);
         (l)   Recreational vehicle sales and service;
         (m)   Truck freight terminal;
         (n)   Truck stop/travel center; and
         (o)   Truck sales and service center.
      (3)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres; and
         (b)   Country club/golf course/driving range.
      (4)   Communications/utilities.
         (a)   Telecommunications/radio/television tower;
         (b)   Utility substation; and
         (c)   Water tower.
      (5)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Animal shelter;
         (b)   Cemetery;
         (c)   Crematory;
         (d)   Church or temple;
         (e)   College building;
         (f)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (g)   Stadium or coliseum;
         (h)   Trade or business school; and
         (i)   University or college.
      (6)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Bar or tavern or night club;
         (b)   Outdoor commercial recreational enterprise (carnival, amusement
park and the like);
         (c)   Recreational development (private);
         (d)   Shooting/archery range (indoor);
         (e)   Skating rink (roller/ice);
         (f)   Theater (outdoor); excluding adult drive-in theater; and
         (g)   Winery.
      (7)   Food sales and service.  Microbrewery/brew-pub.
      (8)   Personal services. Kennel.
      (9)   Warehousing/industrial.
         (a)   Contractor’s warehouse/storage facility (unenclosed);
         (b)   Lumber yard;
         (c)   Power generation facility (commercial); and
         (d)   Semi-tractor/trailer storage.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Front setback (ft.)                              50
Maximum height (ft.)                             50
Maximum intensity (floor area ratio)             0.6
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces 75%
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)  150
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)              5 acres
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line) 200
Rear setback (ft.)                               50
Side setback (ft.)                               25
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2165.jpg]
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   Development plan required.
      (2)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-200 7; Ord. 2015-14, passed 11-10-201 5; Ord. 2018-
01, passed 2-12-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Outdoor sales, display and storage, see Title XV, §
7.13
   Sign regulations, see Title XV,
7.7
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.16  GENERAL INDUSTRIAL (ID).
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The ID (General Industrial) Zoning District is intended to provide
for general industrial manufacturing, production, assembly, warehousing,
research and development facilities and similar land uses. This District is
intended to accommodate a variety of industrial uses in locations and under
conditions that minimize land use conflicts. The ID District is intended to be
located in areas with good access to major thoroughfares and where large
shipping truck traffic does not disrupt local streets. This District should be
used to support industrial retention and expansion in the city.
      (2)   Administrative offices, banks and other commercial services shall
be allowed at the discretion of the Plan Commission and shall remain incidental
to the industrial uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.
         (a)   Crop production;*
         (b)   Farm equipment sales and service;
         (c)   Fertilizer sales, distribution and storage;
         (d)   Raising and breeding of non-farm fowl and animals, commercially,
except kennel; and
         (e)   Seed sales, distribution and storage.
      (2)   Transportation services.
         (a)   Auto parts sales (without on-site repair);
         (b)   Automobile filling station;
         (c)   Automobile/motor vehicle repair, (major), engine rebuilding or
major reconditioning of motor vehicles, including body work, frame or fender
straightening or repair, transmission repair and painting of vehicles;
         (d)   Automobile/motor vehicle repair, (minor), including oil changes/
lubrications, brake replacement, muffler replacement, tire servicing, radiator
cleaning and flushing, water hose replacement, windshield wipers and the like;
         (e)   Automobile/motorcycle sales area and leasing (open);
         (f)   Mobile home sales area and leasing (open);
         (g)   Car wash;
         (h)   Recreational vehicle sales and service; and
         (i)   Truck freight terminal.
      (3)   Communications/utilities.
         (a)   Recycling center; and
         (b)   Utility company business office.
      (4)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Fire station or police station;
         (b)   Government facility (non-office);
         (c)   Government office; and
         (d)   Post office.
      (5)   Professional services.  Data processing/call center.
      (6)   Retail/wholesale sales.
         (a)   Building supply store;
         (b)   Construction services;
         (c)   Farm equipment sales and service (enclosed);
         (d)   Greenhouse, commercial; and
         (e)   Roadside sales stand.
      (7)   Equipment services.
         (a)   Electric appliance shop; and
         (b)   Repair services (small appliances, jewelry, alterations and the
like).
      (8)   Food sales and service.
         (a)   Bakery (wholesale); and
         (b)   Produce terminal, wholesale.
      (9)   Personal services.  Laundry service (large-scale).
      (10)   Warehousing/industrial.
         (a)   Agricultural products terminal;
         (b)   Assembly facility;
         (c)   Boat/RV storage facility (outdoor);
         (d)   Contractor’s warehouse/storage facility (unenclosed);
         (e)   Contractor’s warehouse/storage facility (enclosed);
         (f)   Fabrication facility;
         (g)   Food and beverage production;
         (h)   Lumber yard;
         (i)   Manufacturing, light;
         (j)   Mini-warehouse self-storage facility;
         (k)   Packaging facility;
         (l)   Printing/publishing facility;
         (m)   Research and development facility;
         (n)   Semi-tractor/trailer storage;
         (o)   Tool and dye shop;
         (p)   Truck terminal; and
         (q)   Warehouse/distribution facility.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.  Nursery, wholesale.
      (2)   Transportation services.
         (a)   Airport;
         (b)   Airstrip (private);
         (c)   Heliport;
         (d)   Motor bus or railroad passenger station;
         (e)   Parking lot or structure (as a principal use);
         (f)   Truck stop/travel center; and
         (g)   Truck sales and service center.
      (3)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres; and
         (b)   Campground/RV park.
      (4)   Communications/utilities.
         (a)   Composting facility (indoor);
         (b)   Composting facility (outdoor);
         (c)   Garbage transfer station;
         (d)   Sanitary fill or refuse dump;
         (e)   Sewage treatment plant;
         (f)   Telecommunications/radio/television tower;
         (g)   Utility substation;
         (h)   Water tower; and
         (i)   Wellfield/water treatment facility.
      (5)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Animal shelter;
         (b)   Cemetery;
         (c)   Crematory;
         (d)   Penal or correctional institution; and
         (e)   Power generating plant.
      (6)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Adult uses;
         (b)   Outdoor commercial recreational enterprise (carnival, amusement
park and the like);
         (c)   Recreational development (private);
         (d)   Seasonal fishing or hunting lodge;
         (e)   Shooting range (outdoor);
         (f)   Shooting/archery range (indoor);
         (g)   Theater (outdoor); excluding adult drive-in theater; and
         (h)   Theater (adult drive-in).
      (7)   Professional services.
         (a)   Administrative/professional office;
         (b)   Bank/financial institution; and
         (c)   Business/financial services office.
      (8)   Retail/wholesale sales.
         (a)   Fireworks sales (permanent); and
         (b)   Manufactured home sales.
      (9)   Personal services. Kennel.
      (10)   Warehousing/industrial.
         (a)   Animal and animal products processing;
         (b)   Bottle gas storage and distribution;
         (c)   Concrete/asphalt production facility;
         (d)   Explosive manufacturing and storage;
         (e)   Inoperable vehicle storage;
         (f)   Junk/scrap metal yard;
         (g)   Manufacturing, heavy;
         (h)   Mineral extraction, borrow pit, top soil removal and their
storage areas;
         (i)   Petroleum and chemical processing and storage;
         (j)   Power generation facility (commercial); and
         (k)   Waste incinerator.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Front setback (ft.)                              100
Maximum height (ft.)                             50
Maximum intensity (floor area ratio)             0.6
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces 75%
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)  150
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)              5 acres
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line) 200
Rear setback (ft.)                               50
Side setback (ft.)                               50
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   All permitted uses in the ID District require development plan
review to ensure that the health and safety of city residents is not
compromised.
      (2)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-23-2008; Ord. 2018-01,
passed 2-12-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Outdoor sales, display and storage, see Title XV, §
7.13
   Sign regulations, see Title XV,
7.7
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.17  INSTITUTIONAL (IN).
   (A)   District intent.  The IN, Institutional Zoning District is intended to
provide for institutional facilities including park and recreational
facilities, schools (public, private, special, parochial and higher learning),
places of worship and government/municipal facilities. This District is
established to provide institutional uses with a district which meets their
unique development needs while providing consideration of the impact of those
uses on the use and value of adjacent properties and ensuring that institutions
are appropriately integrated into the community and well-served by
transportation routes and other necessary infrastructure and utilities.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.  Crop production.*
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Assisted living facility; and
         (b)   Retirement facility (senior housing).
      (3)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Campground/RV park;
         (b)   Nature preserve/center; and
         (c)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (4)   Communications/utilities.
         (a)   Radio and television studios; and
         (b)   Utility company business office.
      (5)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Community center;
         (b)   Fairgrounds;
         (c)   Fire station or police station;
         (d)   Government facility (non-office);
         (e)   Government office;
         (f)   Hospital;
         (g)   Institution for the developmentally disabled/mentally ill;
         (h)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (i)   Library;
         (j)   Museum or gallery;
         (k)   Post office;
         (l)   School (any combination of K - 12), public and private;
         (m)   Trade or business school; and
         (n)   University or college.
      (6)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Banquet or assembly hall;
         (b)   Dancing academy/martial arts/gymnastics studio;
         (c)   Retreat center;
         (d)   Riding stable (commercial) - minimum three-acre tract;
         (e)   Seasonal fishing or hunting lodge; and
         (f)   Theater (outdoor); excluding adult drive-in theater.
      (7)   Professional services.
         (a)   Administrative/professional office;
         (b)   Bank/financial institution;
         (c)   Clinic (medical/dental) or health center;
         (d)   Conference center;
         (e)   Data processing/call center; and
         (f)   Office building.
      (8)   Retail/wholesale sales.  Auction facility (excluding livestock).
      (9)   Personal services.  Child care/day care center
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Residential.  Boarding house.
      (2)   Transportation services.
         (a)   Airport;
         (b)   Airstrip (private);
         (c)   Car wash;
         (d)   Heliport;
         (e)   Motor bus or railroad passenger station; and
         (f)   Parking lot or structure (as a principal use).
      (3)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres; and
         (b)   Country club/golf course/driving range.
      (4)   Communications/utilities.
         (a)   Composting facility (indoor);
         (b)   Composting facility (outdoor);
         (c)   Garbage transfer station;
         (d)   Recycling center;
         (e)   Sanitary fill or refuse dump;
         (f)   Sewage treatment plant;
         (g)   Telecommunications/radio/television tower;
         (h)   Utility substation;
         (i)   Water tower; and
         (j)   Wellfield/water treatment facility.
      (5)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Animal shelter;
         (b)   Cemetery;
         (c)   Crematory;
         (d)   Church or temple;
         (e)   College building;
         (f)   Penal or correctional institution;
         (g)   Power generating plant; and
         (h)   Stadium or coliseum.
      (6)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Recreational development (private);
         (b)   Shooting range (outdoor);
         (c)   Shooting/archery range (indoor);
         (d)   Skating rink (roller/ice);
         (e)   Swimming pool (public); and
         (f)   Water park.
      (7)   Retail/wholesale sales.  Manufactured home sales.
      (8)   Personal services.  Kennel.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Front setback (ft.)                              50
Maximum height (ft.)                             50
Maximum intensity (floor area ratio)             0.45
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces 50%
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)  100
Minimum lot size (sq. ft. per unit)              1 acre
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line) 100
Rear setback (ft.)                               50
Side setback (ft.)                               25
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   This District will be the default zoning classification for initial
zoning during annexation for applications without a development proposal.
      (2)   Development plan required.
      (3)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Outdoor sales, display and storage, see Title XV, §
7.13
   Sign regulations, see Title XV,
7.7
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
§ 4.18  OPEN SPACE (OS).
   (A)   District intent.  The OS (Open Space) Zoning District is intended to
provide areas for rural and agricultural uses. This District is designed to
conserve the rural character of areas not expected to develop in the near
future.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.
         (a)   Crop processing and storage (materials produced on-site); and
         (b)   Crop production.*
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Domestic pets; and
         (b)   Dwelling single-family (including manufactured homes).*
      (3)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Riding stable (commercial) - minimum ten-acre tract; and
         (b)   Swimming pool (private).
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.
         (a)   Agricultural product sales, distribution and storage facility;
         (b)   Animal boarding/stables (excluding kennels) - minimum ten-acre
tract;
         (c)   Farm (general);*
         (d)   Farm co-op facility;
         (e)   Farm equipment sales and service;
         (f)   Farmer’s market (permanent);
         (g)   Floriculture;
         (h)   Grazing and pasture land;*
         (i)   Greenhouse (commercial) not exceeding 1,000 square  feet in
area;
         (j)   Nursery, wholesale;
         (k)   Raising and breeding of non-farm fowl and animals, commercially,
except kennel; and
         (l)   Viticulture (vineyard).
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast facility;
         (b)   Boarding house;
         (c)   Child day care home;
         (d)   Dwelling, accessory apartment (“granny flat”);
         (e)   Group home;
         (f)   Home occupation;
         (g)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type I;
         (h)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled type II;
and
         (i)   Residential facility for the mentally ill.
      (3)   Transportation services.  Airstrip (private).
      (4)   Park, recreation and natural areas.
         (a)   Artificial lake of three or more acres;
         (b)   Campground/RV park;
         (c)   Country club/golf course/driving range;
         (d)   Nature preserve/center; and
         (e)   Park or recreational facility (playgrounds and athletic
facilities).
      (5)   Institutional/public uses.
         (a)   Animal shelter;
         (b)   Cemetery;
         (c)   Church or temple;
         (d)   Community center;
         (e)   Fire station or police station;
         (f)   Kindergarten or day nursery;
         (g)   Library; and
         (h)   School (any combination of K - 12), public and private.
      (6)   Entertainment services.
         (a)   Recreational development (private);
         (b)   Seasonal fishing or hunting lodge; and
         (c)   Swimming pool (public).
      (7)   Retail/wholesale sales.  Roadside sales stand.
      (8)   Personal services.  Child care/day care center.
   (D)   Lot and yard standards.
Agricultural adjacency setback (ft.) - refer to graphic in §   30
4.4(D)
Front setback (ft.)
   Arterial                                                  60
   Collector/local                                           35
Maximum height (ft.)                                            35
Maximum lot coverage for all impervious surfaces                25%
Minimum ground floor living area per unit (sq. ft.)             900
Minimum lot frontage (ft. measured at lot line)                 150
Minimum lot size                                                2 acres
Minimum lot width (ft. measured at setback line)                300
Minimum total living area per unit (sq. ft.)                    2,500
Rear setback (ft.)                                              50
Required open space for subdivisions (percent of net land area) 8%
Side setback (ft.)                                              50
 
   (E)   Notes.
      (1)   This District will be the default zoning classification for initial
zoning during annexation for applications without a development proposal.
      (2)   Development plan required.
      (3)   Well and septic systems permitted with approval of City Utility
Service Board and County Health Department.
      (4)   *  Does not require a development plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses and structures, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Design standards, see Title XV, §
7.18
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
   Home occupation standards, see Title XV, §
7.12
   Infill development standards, see Title XV, §
7.22
   Landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
   Lot standards, see Title XV, §
7.4
   Subdivision of Land, see Title XV,
Chapter 8
CHAPTER 5:  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
5.1   General provisions
   
5.2   Procedure to establish/rezone to a PUD
   
5.3   Initial zoning or rezoning to a PUD
   
5.4   Preliminary plan
   
5.5   PUD final detailed plan
   
5.6   Common areas and facilities
   
5.7   Modifications to the approved PUD
§ 5.1  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Description of District.  This District is intended to provide more
development flexibility and innovative approaches than are possible through the
application of customary zoning regulations. The PUD District allows for mixed-
uses and mixed densities under one zoning classification to reflect this
development trend. This ordinance allows any zoning district to be rezoned for
the creation of a PUD District. All PUD Districts shall be consistent with the
requirements of this ordinance.
   (B)   Development standards.  All land use classifications that are allowed
in this ordinance may be permitted within a PUD, unless otherwise omitted. All
various types of development, i.e., residential, commercial or industrial shall
meet the requirements of this unified development ordinance, as they apply to
those classifications.
   (C)   Statement of purpose.  A PUD District is one that:
      (1)   Designates a parcel of real property as a Planned Unit Development
District;
      (2)   Specifies uses or a range of uses permitted in the Planned Unit
Development District;
      (3)   Specifies development requirements in the Planned Unit Development
District;
      (4)   Specifies the plan documentation and supporting information that
may be required; and
      (5)   Specifies any limitation applicable to a Planned Unit Development
District.
(I.C. 36-7-4-1503)
   (D)   Applicability.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply only to a tract of land
proposed to be a minimum of five acres.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply only to proposed new
developments and shall not apply to any planned unit development which is now
fully or partially developed, nor to any development for which a final
authorization has been granted pursuant to a previous ordinance. However, a
petitioner may, upon application and approval of the Commission, become subject
to all the benefits and requirements of this section, subject to those rights
as shall have vested in the owners of the area affected by development under
this ordinance.
   (E)   PUD uses and standards.
      (1)   Uses.  All uses are subject to the discretion and approval of the
Plan Commission. Once uses are approved by the Plan Commission, they are
granted by right. All land uses proposed in a planned unit development must be
compatible with the intent of the comprehensive plan and the characteristics of
surrounding land uses and zoning districts.
      (2)   Development requirements.  Unless alternate development or design
standards are proposed by the petitioner in the PUD District ordinance and
approved by the Plan Commission and the Common Council, the development and
design standards established by
Chapter 4 shall apply.
      (3)   Rules and procedures.  All proceedings brought under this chapter
are subject to the Rules of Procedures of the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Limitation of ordinance amendments.  Any initiative of the Plan
Commission to amend the unified development ordinance that would affect an
approved planned unit development before its completion shall not be enforced
on the planned unit development. New amendments to the ordinance shall only
apply to planned unit developments that have been declared abandoned, or for
which an approval has expired.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Planned unit developments, see I.C. 36-7-4-1500 et seq.
§ 5.2  PROCEDURE TO ESTABLISH/REZONE TO A PUD.
   (A)   Origination of proposals.  Any applicant may propose a Planned Unit
Development District in accordance with the procedures established in this
chapter. The applicant shall submit an application and fee for planned unit
development in accordance with the procedures below in subsection (C) below.
   (B)   Ownership.
      (1)   A parcel or site proposed for a planned unit development may or may
not be under single ownership.
      (2)   However, if not under single ownership, the multiple owners must
have a contractual agreement:
         (a)   Not to develop the parcels separately, but in accordance with a
single, unified plan; and
         (b)   In which the separate owners have given their express intentions
to enter into a private agreements and to assure its completion as planned and
to the satisfaction of the Plan Commission.
      (3)   The Common Council may grant an extension of the time for a period
as it deems in the public interest.
   (C)   Procedures.  The authorization of a planned unit development shall be
subject to the procedures expressed herein. There is a four step process. The
steps in the process are as follows.
(1)   Pre-submittal conference.
         (a)   Prior to filing a formal application for approval of a planned
unit development, the applicant shall meet with and present the general concept
to city planning and building staff to discuss the development concept in
relation to adopted city policies; and
         (b)   The pre-design conference is intended only for the above
purposes; neither the developer nor the jurisdiction is bound by any decision
made during a pre-application conference.
      (2)   Initial zoning or rezone to a PUD.  During this phase, the concept
plan and the unique development requirements for the PUD are prepared and
submitted for review by the Technical Assistance Committee prior to submission
to the Plan Commission and the Common Council in the form of a PUD ordinance.
Refer to §
5.3.
      (3)   Preliminary plan.  The preliminary plan can proceed concurrently
with the PUD District ordinance. The preliminary plan addresses the layout of
the overall site and serves the same function as a primary plat for projects
which are to be subdivided. The preliminary plan shall be reviewed by the
Technical Assistance Committee and shall be approved by the Plan Commission.
Refer to §
5.4.
      (4)   Final detailed plan.  The final detailed plan provides specific
detail for development of the site and serves as a secondary plat for parcels
which to be subdivided. The final detailed plan shall be reviewed by the
Technical Assistance Committee and approved by the Plan Commission, the
Administrator or Plat Committee in accordance with the Plan Commission Rules of
Procedure. Upon approval, staff may issue an improvement location permit. Refer
to §
5.5.
 
Notes:
1.  Step 6:  Public hearing.  * Refer to I.C. 36-7-4-1512 for Common Council
powers with regard to the PUD District ordinance.
 
Notes:
1.  Preliminary Plan.  * Similar process to that of an overall preliminary
plat.
2.  Final Detailed Plan.  ** Similar process to that of a secondary plat.
3.  Step 12: Final Detailed Plan.  *** If denied by the Administrator, an
appeal can be made to the Plan Commission.
 
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 5.3  INITIAL ZONING OR REZONING TO A PUD.
   (A)   Concept plan and application preparation and review. The purpose of
the PUD District ordinance is to designate a parcel of real property as a
planned unit development zoning district. The plan shall include:
      (1)   Submittal.  The PUD District ordinance submittal shall include any
graphic media which will explain the features to be contained within the
development. The PUD District ordinance and concept plan may take the form of a
booklet, a set of 11 by17 inch sheets or a combination of these formats:
         (a)   Show the boundary lines of adjacent subdivided and unsubdivided
and the existing zoning of the area proposed to be developed as well as the
land adjacent thereto;
         (b)   Specify uses or a range of uses permitted in the Planned Unit
Development Zoning District; and
         (c)   Specify development requirements and standards based on the
related zoning district or alternatives.
      (2)   Concept plan.  The plan shall include a proposed layout to scale of
the general concept for handling vehicular and pedestrian circulation, parking,
general infrastructure, drainage, site perimeter treatment and other pertinent
development features;
      (3)   Superseding original plat.  If the planned unit development is to
supersede an original plat being vacated, the original plat shall be shown by
dotted lines in relationship to the lines of the new plat, the new plan being
clearly shown in solid lines;
      (4)   Development requirements.  Detailed text documenting the
development standards that apply to the proposed PUD District may be included.
         (a)   Written development standards, including:
            (1)   Lot area;
            (2)   Floor area;
            (3)   Ratios of floor space to land area;
            (4)   Area in which structures may be built (“buildable area”),
including areas for cluster type residential development without lot lines;
            (5)   Open space;
            (6)   Setback lines and minimum yards;
            (7)   Building separations;
            (8)   Height of structures;
            (9)   Signs;
            (10)   Parking and loading space;
            (11)   Design standards; and
            (12)   Phasing of development.
      (5)   Written commitments.  A description of any written commitments that
are being proposed as part of the development; and
      (6)   Review by Technical Assistance Committee.  The Technical Assistance
Committee shall review the concept plan and the written findings of the TAC
shall be submitted to the Plan Commission prior to public hearing.
   (B)   Plan Commission public hearing.  The Plan Commission will, in a public
hearing scheduled consistent with the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure,
review the application and required supporting information.
   (1)   Notification.  Notification for the scheduled public hearing regarding
the preliminary plan shall be completed consistent with the requirements the
Rules of Procedures of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Representation.  Either the applicant or a representative of the
applicant must be present at the public hearing to present the application and
address any questions the Commission may have.
      (3)   Presentations.  The Plan Commission shall consider a staff report
from the Planning and Zoning Administrator or his or her designee and testimony
from the petitioner, remonstrators and other interested parties at the hearing.
The presentation of reports and testimony and all other aspects of the public
hearing shall be consistent with the Rules of Procedures of the Plan
Commission.
      (4)   Decision criteria. In reviewing the Planned Unit Development
District ordinance and concept plan petition, the Plan Commission shall pay
reasonable regard to the following, consistent with I.C. 36-7-4-603:
         (a)   The extent to which the proposal fulfills the requirements and
intent of the comprehensive plan and any other applicable, adopted planning
studies or reports;
         (b)   The current conditions and the character of current structures
and uses in each zoning district;
         (c)   The most desirable use of which the land in each district is
adapted;
         (d)   The conservation of collective property values throughout the
city as a whole; and
         (e)   Responsible growth and development.
      (5)   Possible action.  The Plan Commission will in concurrence with
established rules and procedure review the application and required supporting
information. The proposed PUD District ordinance and concept plan shall be
certified to the Common Council with one of the following recommendations. Per
I.C. 36-7-4-1512, the Plan Commission may impose conditions or require written
commitments from the applicant.
         (a)   Favorable recommendation.  The PUD District ordinance
application shall be forwarded with a favorable recommendation if it is found
to be consistent with the decision criteria listed in subsection (B)(4) above.
         (b)   Unfavorable recommendation.  The application shall be forwarded
with an unfavorable recommendation if it is found to be inconsistent with the
decision criteria listed in subsection(B)(4) above.
         (c)   No recommendation.  The application shall be forwarded with no
recommendation.
         (d)   Continued.  The application may be continued based on a request
by the Administrator, the petitioner, a remonstrator or an interested party.
The application shall be continued in the case of an indecisive vote, a
determination by the Plan Commission that additional information is required
prior to action being taken on the request, or if an appropriate representative
of the application fails to appear at the public hearing.
            (1)   Additional legal notice shall not be required unless
specified by the Plan Commission.
            (2)   The continuing of all applications shall be to a specific
date and consistent with the adopted Rules of Procedures of the Plan
Commission.
   (C)   Decision by Common Council.  Upon certification of the PUD District
ordinance by the Plan Commission, the Common Council shall vote on the PUD
ordinance within 90 days. The Common Council shall pay reasonable regard to the
decision criteria listed under subsection(B)(4) above, consistent with I.C. 36-
7-4-603 and 36-7-4-1512, and then may:
      (1)   Adopt the ordinance;
      (2)   Adopt the PUD ordinance with conditions or commitments;
      (3)   Return the PUD District ordinance and concept plan to the Plan
Commission with proposed amendments; or
      (4)   Deny the ordinance.
   (D)   Inaction.  If the Plan Commission has given the proposal a favorable
recommendation and the Council fails to act on the proposal within 90 days, the
ordinance takes effect as if it had been adopted as certified 90 days after
certification. If the Plan Commission has failed to make a recommendation or
has given the proposal an unfavorable recommendation and the Council fails to
act on the proposal within 90 days, the proposal is defeated.
   (E)   Effect of approval on PUD District ordinance.
   (1)   When a PUD District ordinance and concept plan has been approved by
the Council, the PUD zoning shall become effective, and its location shall be
shown on the zoning map in accordance with the Plan Commission Rules of
Procedure.
      (2)   Upon the amendment to the zoning map, the use and development of
the site shall be governed by the Planned Unit Development District and concept
plan, subject to approval of the preliminary plan (similar to the overall
primary plat) and the final detailed plan (similar to a secondary plat).
      (3)   No permit of any kind shall be issued until the final detailed plan
has been approved.
      (4)   Upon adoption by the Common Council, the PUD District ordinance
shall be returned to the Plan Commission which shall thereafter exercise or
designate the Administrator to exercise continuing jurisdiction.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Written commitments, see Title XV, §
9.14
§ 5.4  PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Preparation.  The preliminary plan shall be prepared in accordance
with the established procedures detailed in the application available in the
City Planning and Building Department offices. The preliminary plan shall serve
to divide the PUD District into lots, blocks and common area.
   (B)   Content.  The following shall be included in the preliminary plan
submission.
      (1)   Cover page and index.  The cover sheet shall include the
development title, date of submittal, sheet index, applicants involved, land
surveyors, engineers or other professionals responsible for the preliminary
plan design, and the legal description of the subject property and common
address of the site.
      (2)   Common holdings map.  A map of any property adjacent to the
property subject to the preliminary plan owned or otherwise controlled by any
or all of the petitioners. The common holdings map shall be accompanied by a
general description of the future development of that property and its
relationship to the area included in the preliminary plan. The general
description shall be in map form and shall include, at a minimum, general land
uses, general street patterns and access points and general drainage designs.
      (3)   Existing site conditions.
         (a)   Built features.  All existing streets (including travel lanes,
sidewalks, street trees, rights-of-way and the like), established open spaces,
structures, wells, utility lines and facilities, fire hydrants and street
lights;
         (b)   Easements.  All existing easements and an indication of their
purpose;
         (c)   Topography.  A topographic survey of the area with contour
intervals of two feet;
         (d)   Natural features. The location of natural streams, regulated
drains, 100-year floodplains and floodways, water courses, wetlands (as
identified by IDNR, IDEM or an individual with a Unites States Army Corps of
Engineers Regulation 4 Jurisdictional Wetland Certification), wooded areas and
isolated preservable trees (with greater than an eight-inch DBH); and
         (e)   Historic features.  An identification of any historic features,
specifically those listed as outstanding, notable or contributing on the State
Historic Sites and Structures Inventory - County Interim Report or listed in
the National Register of Historic Places and/or State Register of Historic
Sites and Structures.
      (4)   Proposed development.  A conceptual plan of the proposed
development of the property, including:
         (a)   Circulation systems.  The layout and design of proposed streets,
sidewalks, on- and off-street parking, bike lanes, paths and trails;
         (b)   Land uses.  The land use, number of acres or square feet,
density of any proposed residential uses;
         (c)   Open space.  The proposed location, improvements to open space
(including park facilities, natural areas, trail systems and other designated
common areas);
         (d)   Landscaping.  The conceptual design of landscaping, buffering
and/or screening, wooded areas to be preserved;
         (e)   Natural features.  A description of the accommodation of natural
streams, regulated drains, 100-year floodplains and floodways, water courses,
wetlands (as identified by IDNR, IDEM or an individual with a Unites States
Army Corps of Engineers Regulation 4 Jurisdictional Wetland Certification),
wooded areas and isolated preservable trees (with greater than an eight-inch
DBH);
         (f)   Drainage.  A drainage concept plan with calculations meeting the
requirements of Lebanon Utilities and the County Drainage Board;
         (g)   Infrastructure.  The plan shall indicate how infrastructure will
be provided to the site;
         (h)   Historic features.  A description of the accommodation of
historic features, specifically those listed as outstanding, notable or
contributing on the State Historic Sites and Structures Inventory - County
Interim Report or listed in the National Register of Historic Places and/or
State Register of Historic Sites and Structures;
         (i)   Covenants.  A description of any private covenants and
restrictions that will be established for the development. Covenants that set
forth in detail provisions for the ownership and maintenance of facilities held
in common so as to reasonably ensure their continuity and conservation shall be
required. The covenant provisions shall include special remedies in the event
facilities held in common are permitted to deteriorate or are not maintained in
a condition consistent with the best interests of the city, and in the event
the city shall take those remedial steps provided for in these provisions; and
         (j)   Project phasing.  A statement of the proposed order of
development of the major elements of the project, including phasing, if
applicable, and the order and content of each phase.
      (5)   Supplemental information.  Any other information requested by the
Administrator or Plan Commission to aid in the review of the detailed plan.
This may included traffic studies or fiscal impact analyses.
   (C)   Preliminary plan approval procedures.  Planned unit developments shall
be required to comply with this section and the provisions of §
9.19(B). In no instance shall the approval of a PUD be interpreted as waiving
or modifying any ordinance or development plan processes. This process may
occur concurrently with the PUD District ordinance and concept plan approval.
      (1)   Technical Assistance Committee review.  The Technical Assistance
Committee (TAC) shall review the preliminary plan for conformance with the
standards and set procedures. Following the TAC review, the petitioner shall
revise the petition as deemed appropriate.
      (2)   Plan Commission approval process.
         (a)   Public notice and hearing.  Notice and hearing requirements are
as specified in the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure, as amended.
         (b)   Decision.  The Plan Commission shall:
            (1)   Approve the petition;
            (2)   Approve the petition with conditions and/or commitments;
            (3)   Deny the petition; or
            (4)   Continue the petition to a definite future meeting date.
         (c)   Commitments and covenants recording.  The President of the Plan
Commission shall sign the approved preliminary plan which shall be dated and
stamped “approved.” Any commitments shall be recorded on the plat and filed
with the County Recorder’s office within 30 days of the approval of the
preliminary plan. Covenants shall be filed with the city. The documents must
indicate that covenants are private agreements that may be enforced at the
discretion of the Plan Commission. The
petitioner shall provide one copy of the recorded documents to the
Administrator for the records of the Plan Commission prior to proceeding with a
final detailed plan.
      (3)   If approved.  Approval of the preliminary plan by the Plan
Commission shall act as an overall primary plat, show restrictions placed on
the land, and act as a zoning control device. No construction, site grading and
the like is authorized by adoption of the preliminary plan.
      (4)   If approved with conditions and/or commitments.  Following Plan
Commission approval, the petitioner shall submit revised copies of the plans
that address the comments and concerns of the Plan Commission.
      (5)   If denied.  Following Plan Commission denial, the Plan Commission
shall make written findings giving the reasons for denial. The petitioner may
prepare a new preliminary plan application and resubmit.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 5.5  PUD FINAL DETAILED PLAN.
   (A)   Conformance to preliminary plan. The final detailed plan shall conform
to the PUD preliminary plan as approved.
   (B)   Submission.  The PUD final detailed plan and supporting data shall be
filed with the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Content.  The final detailed plan shall be the complete set of
construction documents including construction plans, details illustrating
materials and connections, and specifications for every element of the proposed
project. Other documents shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Any additional information as may have been required by the
preliminary plan approval;
      (2)   An accurate map exhibit of the entire phase for which PUD final
detailed plan approval is being requested which complies with the requirements
for development plans, as set forth in §
9.17, single-family residential development on individual lots need not show
precise locations of buildings on each lot, but plans shall show setback and
other bulk constraints;
      (3)   Projected construction schedule;
      (4)   Agreements and covenants which govern the use, maintenance and
continued protection of the PUD and its common spaces, shared facilities and
private roads; and
      (5)   Financial assurance for the satisfactory installation of all public
facilities in the form of bonds or other assurances as are required in the
normal procedures of platting pursuant to the provisions of the this ordinance.
   (D)   Final detailed plan procedures.  The procedure for the approval of a
PUD final detailed plan is similar to that for a secondary plat and shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Review by Technical Assistance Committee.  The Technical Assistance
Committee shall review the PUD final detailed plan in accordance with the
development plan requirements of §
9.17 of this ordinance.
      (2)   Administrative decision by staff.  As designated by the Plan
Commission, the Administrator or his or her designee may approve or deny the
final detailed plan application.
         (a)   Approve.  The application may be approved if it is found to be
consistent with all applicable requirements and the intent of this ordinance.
         (b)   Deny.  The application may be denied if it is found to be
inconsistent with any applicable requirements and/or the intent of this
ordinance.
         (c)   Appeal.  The applicant may appeal the decision of the
Administrator to the Plan Commission within 30 days.
   (E)   Time limitation.  Approval of a final detailed plan shall be obtained
within two years after adoption of the PUD District ordinance by the Common
Council. The Plan Commission, upon proper application and for good cause, may
grant without a public hearing an extension of time for a period as it deems is
in the public interest.
   (F)   Phasing.  The Commission may allow the petitioner to develop the
property involved in phases. If phasing is permitted, the Plan Commission may
allow the petitioner to submit a partial final detailed plan which corresponds
to the phases involved.
   (G)   Modifications.  All development within a PUD shall conform to the
corresponding approved final detailed plan. In the exercise of its continuing
jurisdiction, the Administrator shall be cognizant of any substandard
deviations from the approved preliminary plan and take appropriate action. The
Administrator may allow modifications in the final detailed plan in a manner
consistent with the approved preliminary plan to allow for changed
circumstances and conditions unforeseen at the time of original approval.
   (H)   Streets.  Where a platting, replatting or vacation of streets within
all or a portion of the land involved is contemplated, the Plan Commission
shall handle those matters in accordance with its regular procedures in
accordance with law.
   (I)   Abandonment.
      (1)   Under the abandonment of a development authorized under this
section, the Plan Commission shall initiate an amendment to the unified
development ordinance so that the land will be zoned into a category or
categories which approximates its existing use or any other zoning category or
categories which it deems appropriate.
      (2)   Abandonment shall be deemed to have occurred:
         (a)   When no improvements have been made pursuant to the approved
final detailed plan for 24-consecutive months;
         (b)   Upon the expiration of five years from the issuance of the
approval of a final detailed plan for a development which has not been
completed; and
      (c)   Upon the expiration of an extension granted by the Commission.
   (K)   Recording.  An approved final detailed plan shall be treated the same
as an approved plat and modifications thereof shall be recorded in the
appropriate plat books in the offices of the County Recorder within six months
after approval by the Plan Commission. A copy of the recorded plat shall be
submitted to the city.
   (L)   Permit.  No improvement location permit shall be issued for a PUD
District by the Plan Commission unless all recording required by subsection (K)
above has been effected. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for an PUD
District unless the approved final detailed plan with modifications, if any, is
adhered to, all in compliance with the purposes of this ordinance. No
construction or installation work shall be done on any public improvements
until satisfactory plans and specifications therefore have been submitted to
the Plan Commission in accordance with this ordinance and the petitioner has,
at least 24 hours in advance, notified the Administrator of his or her
intention to begin the work, in order that inspections may be made as the work
progresses.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Common area maintenance or homeowner’s association, see Title XV, §
8.17
§ 5.6  COMMON AREAS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Homeowner’s association.  Adequate provision shall be made for a
private organization (i.e., homeowner’s association) with direct responsibility
to, and control by, the property owners involved to provide for the operation
and maintenance of all common facilities including private streets jointly
shared by the property owners if the facilities are a part of the planned unit
development plan, and, in this instance, legal assurance shall be provided
which show that the private organization is self-perpetuating and adequately
funded to accomplish its purposes.
   (B)   Maintenance.  Common areas and facilities which are not dedicated to
the public shall be maintained to standards assuring continuous and adequate
maintenance at a reasonable and non-discriminatory rate of charge to the
beneficiaries thereof. Common areas and facilities not dedicated to the public
shall be operated and maintained at no expense to any governmental unit.
Adequate access shall be provided for fire, police, health, sanitation and
public utilities vehicles to service common areas.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 5.7  MODIFICATIONS TO THE APPROVED PUD.
   (A)   Major modifications requiring new preliminary plan approval.  New
planned unit development preliminary plan approval by the Plan Commission shall
be required for changes which alter the concept or intent of the PUD District
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Significant changes in the proportion or allocation of land uses;
      (2)   Changes in the type of approved uses;
      (3)   Changes in the location of uses;
      (4)   Lessening of aesthetic treatments;
      (5)   Changes in functional uses or open space, where the change
constitutes an intensification of use of the open space;
      (6)   Changes in the final governing agreements, requirements or
commitments where the changes conflict with the preliminary plan approval;
      (7)   Density increases;
      (8)   Changes to the internal street system or off-street parking areas
which the Administrator considers to be significant;
      (9)   Significant changes in drainage management structures, as
determined by the Administrator;
      (10)   Changes in access to the development site, where the change
amounts to an intensification in the traffic patterns of roadways; and/or
      (11)   All other changes not expressly addressed under subsection (B)
below.
   (B)   Minor modifications.
      (1)   The following changes are considered minor modifications to the PUD
final detailed plan, and may be approved by the Administrator. The
Administrator may choose to send a minor modification request directly to the
Plan Commission if the opinion is that it would be in the best interest of the
community, or if the request appears to be controversial.
      (2)   The Administrator’s decision may be appealed to the Plan Commission
by the property owner.
         (a)   Changes in lot arrangement, but not size, which are not
detrimental to the proposed thoroughfare pattern of the development;
         (b)   Substitutions of plants;
         (c)   Reduction of parking spaces or setbacks by less than 5%;
         (d)   Increase in building square footage or height by less than 10%;
         (e)   Changes to the internal street system or off-street parking
areas, which are considered minor by the Administrator;
         (f)   Minor changes in drainage management structures, as determined
by the Administrator; and/or
         (g)   Changes in access to the development site, where the change
amounts to a reduction in intensity in the traffic patterns of roadways, as
determined by the Administrator.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
CHAPTER 6:  OVERLAY DISTRICTS
Section
   
6.1   Thoroughfare Overlay District
   
6.2   Interstate Overlay District
   
6.3   Downtown Overlay District
§ 6.1  THOROUGHFARE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent of the district.  The purpose of the Thoroughfare Overlay
District is:
      (1)   To promote coordinated, quality development for all development
sites, buildings, structures abutting designated major thoroughfares within the
city;
      (2)   To establish basic standards which promote high quality, innovative
site design and at the same time encourage efficient land use; and
      (3)   To encourage capital investments for the development of adjacent
properties.
   (B)   District boundaries.  The boundaries of the Thoroughfare Overlay
District are hereby established as shown on the official zoning map for the
city. The boundaries extend 400 feet from the centerline of the designated
thoroughfare. Designated thoroughfares include State Road 32, State Road 39,
Indianapolis Avenue and Lafayette Avenue.
   (C)   Applicability.  All new development and any existing lots, structures
or buildings proposing an expansion of the lot, structure or building by 30% or
more of the existing.
   (D)   Interpretation.  The Thoroughfare Overlay District regulations apply
in addition to the underlying zoning district regulations. In the case that
this Overlay District overlaps other Overlay Districts, or where conflicting
regulations occur, the following shall apply.
      (1)   The regulations of the Downtown Overlay District shall supercede
the regulations of the Thoroughfare Overlay District. The Thoroughfare Overlay
District shall supercede the regulations of the Interstate Overlay District.
Where no special regulations are included within a specific Overlay District,
the regulations of the underlying Overlay District shall apply, or in the case
of no underlying Overlay District, the regulations of the underlying zoning
district shall apply.
      (2)   In the case of conflicting regulations between the Thoroughfare
Overlay District regulations of this section and other regulations in this
ordinance, the hierarchy detailed in subsection (D)(1) above shall determine
which regulations control.
   (E)   Plan Commission approval.
      (1)   A development plan is required for all proposed development in the
Thoroughfare Overlay District per §
9.17. Individual single- or two-family lots are not subject to the requirements
of the Overlay District and only require development plan approval by the Plan
Commission when they are part of a major subdivision.
      (2)   If any portion of the parcel/tract/lot lies in the Overlay
District, the entire parcel/tract/lot is considered to be in the Overlay
District.
   (F)   Permitted uses.  All uses which are permitted in a given site’s
underlying zoning district except those expressly excluded in subsection (H)
below, are permitted in the Thoroughfare Overlay District.
   (G)   Permitted conditional uses.  All conditional uses which are permitted
(upon obtaining a conditional use approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals) in
the underlying zoning district(s), except the uses expressly excluded in
subsection (H) below, are permitted in the Thoroughfare Overlay District.
   (H)   (1)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Used motor vehicle sales;
         (b)   Drive through establishments (drive through windows may be
permitted as accessory uses, subject to the provisions of this section);
         (c)   Farm equipment sales and service (not fully enclosed);
         (d)   Heliport;
         (e)   Highway maintenance garage;
         (f)   Wholesale/warehousing/industrial services not contained entirely
within buildings;
         (g)   Outdoor storage;
         (h)   Car washes (self-service only); and
         (i)   Auto repair.
      (2)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Airport;
         (b)   Radio or television transmission tower;
         (c)   Boat or marine equipment sales and service;
         (d)   Penal or correctional institution;
         (e)   Sanitary fill;
         (f)   Sewage treatment or disposal plant;
         (g)   Junk yard, salvage yard operation;
         (h)   Raising of non-farm fowl and animals, commercially (except
kennel);
         (i)   Mini warehouses/self storage;
         (j)   Signs greater than 100 square feet in sign area, except as noted
elsewhere in this ordinance;
         (k)   Adult uses;
         (l)   Body art studio; and
         (m)   Used motor vehicle sales.
   (I)   Vehicular access.  Refer to §
7.18 for vehicular access requirements.
   (J)   Accessory buildings and uses.  All accessory buildings and uses which
are permitted in the underlying zoning district(s) shall be permitted, except
that any detached accessory building shall be architecturally compatible with
the principal building(s) with which it is associated.
   (K)   Site layout.  Development plans shall address the entire parcel.
Ownership patterns may limit the degree to which this can be shown. Plans
should indicate phasing and be prepared in accordance with the requirements of
§
9.17. See also standards for nonresidential subdivisions in §
8.1(D).
      (1)   Site layout shall consider the relationship between all buildings
on site. Building entries shall generally be oriented towards the adjacent
streets.
      (2)   Pedestrian access on all public and private streets shall be
provided at the time of initial development.
      (3)   Pedestrian connectivity between uses shall be included.
      (4)   Internal drive aisles that connect multiple lots shall be used to
minimize points of access for safe vehicular circulation.
      (5)   The orientation and access of outlots shall be considered and
illustrated on the plan.
      (6)   Where parcels can be accessed via connection to a secondary
arterial, collector or adjoining parking lot, curb cuts shall not be
established on primary arterials within the Thoroughfare Overlay District.
   (L)   Nonresidential uses (CB, NB, PBC, PBO, PBI, ID and IN).
      (1)   Parking.  In addition to the standards contained in §
7.5 the following shall apply:
         (a)   Off-street parking between the street and the front facade of
the structure shall not exceed 50% of the required parking.
            (1)   Parking which exceeds 50% of the required parking and is
located in the front yard and is visible from the public right-of-way shall
require an increase in the required parking lot interior landscaping standards
by 10%.
            (2)   Parking located between the street and the front facade shall
not be allowed within the required front yard or within the required corridor
buffer.
         (b)   Pedestrian areas in parking lots shall be demarcated with
special paving, color, height or striping for increased safety.
         (c)   Shared parking may be utilized in accordance with §
7.5.
      (2)   Architectural standards.
         (a)   Building materials.
            (1)   Metal building construction and post building construction
(also known as pre-engineered building systems) shall not be permitted.
            (2)   Structures located in the Overlay Districts shall be
constructed using a minimum of 50% masonry as described below.
               a.   Masonry construction may consist of brick, granite,
sandstone, slate, limestone, marble or other hard and durable all weather
stone. Ashlar, cut stone and dimension stone construction techniques are
acceptable.
               b.   Brick material used for masonry construction shall be
composed of hard fired all-weather standard size brick or other all-weather
facing brick.
            (3)   The use of smooth-faced concrete block, untextured
smoothfaced tilt-up panels and standing seam metal panels shall be prohibited.
The Administrator shall approve or deny the use of all composite and
alternative materials that replicate the appearance and durability of those
listed below. All facade wall exterior building materials shall be high
quality, and shall be limited to any combination of the following:
               a.   Brick or face tile;
               b.   Wood;
               c.   Native stone;
               d.   Glass (reflective glass shall be limited to a maximum of
50% of the area of any facade wall on which glass is used);
               e.   Tinted and/or textured concrete masonry units (such as
split-face block and burnished block);
               f.   Architectural precast concrete or tilt-up concrete panels
that are textured using the following techniques: exposed aggregate, bush-
hammered, sand blasted or other concrete finish as approved by the Plan
Commission or designee;
               g.   Architectural metal, limited to a maximum of 50% of the
area of any facade wall on which architectural metal is used;
               h.   Exterior insulation and finish systems (EIFS); and
               i.   Fiber cement board, nine-inch lap.
         (b)   Facade detail.  Facade detail elements such as color, lighting,
display windows and roof design shall meet the requirements of §
7.18.
         (c)   Minimum height.  Buildings in the Overlay District shall have a
minimum height of 20 feet.
         (d)   Building orientation.  All structures shall be sited to front on
public ways or give the appearance of a front-like facade on public ways. The
main entrance of the structure must face the street and be clearly articulated
through the use of architectural detailing. Where there are two street
frontages the entrance on the thoroughfare of highest classification shall be
the main entrance.
      (3)   Landscaping.
         (a)   Coordination.  The landscaping is intended to visually tie an
entire development together, define entryways and vehicular and pedestrian
circulation, buffer dissimilar uses and to mitigate the effect of heat build up
on dark paved surfaces. All landscape requirements of the underlying zoning
district shall apply.
         (b)   Live material.  Areas required to be landscaped shall be covered
in live material such as trees, shrubs, ground cover and sod. Areas not
required by this ordinance may be covered by woody mulch, rock mulch or other
natural materials other than exposed gravel and aggregate rock.
         (c)   Corridor buffer.  A corridor buffer of minimum 20 feet in width
shall be established. The incorporation of walkways and bikeways into the
design is encouraged. Parking lots, through roads, frontage roads, drive
aisles, buildings and accessory structures and the like shall not be
established within this area.
         (d)   Lot plantings. Plantings shall be included on a lot on all sides
of a building or structure. Plantings for nonresidential uses shall constitute
75% of the building’s perimeter excluding entryways and service bays. The
minimum average width of the planting area shall be five feet. Landscaping
materials used adjacent to buildings shall include shrubs, ground cover and
ornamental grasses in addition to turf. Trees are encourage in larger planting
spaces.
         (e)   Street trees.  Street trees shall be planted parallel to the
street either within street right-of-way or within ten feet outside of right-
of-way, except as noted in §
6.3. The tree species shall be selected from
Table 7.11: Trees for Planting on Streets, Highways and Parking Lots (generally
with high canopies, shade producing, hardy) or
Table 7.12: Trees for Planting on Streets and Highways that Minimize Conflict
With Overhead Utilities. Spacing shall be determined by tree type with a
maximum spacing of 40 feet on center. Street trees shall be seedless hardwood
shade/canopy trees. Species should be selected based upon hardiness,
durability, root systems that do not damage sidewalks, and leaf and fruit
litter that will not clog storm drains.
         (f)   Landscape buffer/screening.  Requirements for buffer/screening
can be found in §
7.8.
         (g)   Sign landscaping.  Requirements for landscaping around the base
of signs can be found in §
7.8.
      (4)   Trash collection.  Trash, garbage, grease and recycling collection
areas shall be enclosed and screened on all sides with a minimum six foot tall
opaque wall constructed of materials which are architecturally compatible with
the design of the principal building(s). Gates shall be used on the unit’s side
and shall be functional. Trash collection and recycling areas shall be integral
to the building or located in the rear of the site.
      (5)   Pedestrian facilities.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be provided along the frontage adjacent to a
public or private street. The sidewalk shall be a minimum of six feet wide.
         (b)   Sidewalks shall be provided along both sides of the major access
drive and one side of a secondary access drive.
         (c)   A continuous, delineated pedestrian pathway network no less than
six feet wide, that continues from the perimeter public sidewalk to the
principal customer entrance of all principal buildings on the site shall be
provided.
         (d)   Sidewalks, no less than eight feet wide, must be provided along
the full length of the building along any facade that features a customer
entrance.
         (e)   All pedestrian walkways shall be distinguished from driving
surfaces through the use of special pavers, bricks or scored concrete.
      (6)   Lighting.
         (a)   Design.  All light standards, building-mounted lights, security
lights and other architectural lights shall be of compatible design and
materials.
         (b)   Height.  Freestanding and wall-mounted outdoor light fixtures
used to illuminate a surface parking or service area shall utilize full cutoff
fixtures. The Plan Commission may approve cutoff, semi-cutoff or other
decorative lighting should it be more appropriate to the overall site design.
         (c)   Gas stations.  Refer to §
7.15.
         (d)   Intensity/light trespass.  Lighting levels shall not exceed
three-tenths foot candles at the property line abutting a residential use or
district. Light levels shall not exceed five-tenths foot candles of light at
the property line adjacent to a nonresidential district. Light levels shall not
exceed six-tenths at property lines adjacent to street right-of-way.
      (7)   Signs.  Signs for each proposed use shall be in conformance with
the requirements of §
7.7 of this ordinance and compatible in character as to color and architectural
design with the structures located on the site.
      (8)   Drive-through windows.  Drive-through windows:
         (a)   Shall be designed as a related, integrated architectural element
and part of the overall design composition of the building;
         (b)   Shall confine stacking to the rear of the tract or parcel with
outlet from those lines also being to the rear or side of the building; and
         (c)   Shall not permit spill onto adjoining properties, public rights-
of-way or interior/internal drives.
      (9)   Loading berths.  Loading berths shall be permitted per the needs of
business establishments and shall be identified on the development plan.
Loading berths and overhead doors shall face to the rear of all buildings.
Should a loading berth be located adjacent to or visible from a public right-
of-way or established on the side of a building through any circumstance, it
shall be screened from view with an opaque wall constructed of materials which
are architecturally compatible with the design of the principal building(s).
      (10)   Screening.
         (a)   All roof top equipment shall be enclosed in building material
that matches the structure or is visually compatible with the structure.
         (b)   All building mechanical and electrical equipment located
adjacent to the building and visible from a public thoroughfare or residential
use shall be screened from view by means of walls, landscaping, camouflage or
other approved method. All screening shall be architecturally compatible with
the principal structure.
         (c)   Sound attenuation to mechanical equipment is also encouraged.
   (M)   Change in land use. Any change in land use permitted by Chapter 4 of
this unified development ordinance on existing lots located in the boundaries
of the Thoroughfare Overlay District as defined above is subject to the
provisions herein.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-23-2008; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 4-13-2009; Ord. 2014-06, passed 4-28-2014; Ord. 2015-08, passed 5-26-
2015)
Cross-reference:
   Accessory uses, see Title XV, §
7.10
   Drive-through stacking requirements, see Title XV, §
7.5
   Exterior lighting standards, see Title XV, §
7.15
   Landscaping for parking lot interior landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8
Editor’s note:
   See also the City Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
   The Center Township thoroughfare plan is available at the City Planning and
Building Department.
§ 6.2  INTERSTATE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intention of the district.  The purpose of the Interstate Overlay
District is:
      (1)   To promote coordinated, quality development;
      (2)   To establish basic standards for structures, landscaping and other
improvements on the properties within the Interstate Overlay District which
promote high quality, innovative site design and at the same time encourage
efficient land usage; and
      (3)   To establish development standards which will encourage capital
investments for the development of those properties along and abutting
Interstate 65 (I-65) within the city.
   (B)   District boundaries.  The boundaries of the Interstate Overlay
District are hereby established as shown on the official zoning map for the
city. The boundaries extend 400 feet outside of and parallel to the outermost
right-of-way of I-65.
   (C)   Interpretation.  Properties that are situated within the Interstate
Overlay District are subject to the same requirements as §
6.1 of this ordinance, except where noted in this section. In the case that
this Overlay District overlaps other Overlay Districts, or where conflicting
regulations occur, the following shall apply.
      (1)   The regulations of the Downtown Overlay District shall supercede
the regulations of the Thoroughfare Overlay District. The Thoroughfare Overlay
District shall supercede the regulations of the Interstate Overlay District.
Where no special regulations are included within a specific Overlay District,
the regulations of the underlying Overlay District shall apply, or in the case
of no underlying Overlay District, the regulations of the underlying zoning
district shall apply.
      (2)   In the case of conflicting regulations between the Interstate
Overlay District regulations of this section and other regulations in this
ordinance, the hierarchy detailed in subsection (C)(1) above shall determine
which regulations control.
   (D)   Permitted uses.  All uses which are permitted in the underlying zoning
district are permitted, except those expressly prohibited in §
6.1. As an exception, pole/ground signs in excess of 100 square feet in sign
area and mini-warehouses/self storage facilities are permitted in the
Interstate Overlay District.
   (E)   Interstate corridor buffer.  Properties abutting I-65 shall provide a
minimum 30 foot width landscape buffer on the lot frontage adjacent to the
interstate. The buffer shall contain Type B buffer plantings from
Table 7.9: Landscape Buffer Types. This buffer is in addition to other required
landscaping and setback yards.
   (F)   Building orientation.  All structures shall give the appearance of a
front-like facade along the interstate. However, where the building is sited so
that the front faces the interstate, a front-like facade must be maintained
along other public rights-of-way within the city.
   (G)   Trash collection.  Trash collection and recycling areas shall not be
visible from the interstate and shall be screened in accordance with §
7.8.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-23-2008)
§ 6.3  DOWNTOWN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent.  The intent of the Downtown Overlay District is to promote the
continuation of higher density mixed-use development in the downtown area of
the city and to ensure a high degree of compatibility between existing and new
development in keeping with traditional downtown development patterns. The
district shall:
      (1)   Require a reasonable amount of design standards that assure
compatible size, scale and massing of structures for new construction;
      (2)   Preserve existing historic character by encouraging rehabilitation
of existing buildings;
      (3)   Protect property values and encourage continued investment;
      (4)   Encourage revitalization with pedestrian-oriented development with
a mix of uses including residential, retail, service, office and entertainment;
and
      (5)   Be consistent with the goals and policies of the comprehensive
plan.
   (B)   Boundaries.  The boundaries of the Downtown Overlay District are shown
on the official zoning map. More specifically, the Downtown Overlay District is
divided into two subareas and includes all land within the following designated
boundaries:
      (1)   Commercial core. From a point that is 125 feet north of and 125
feet west of the intersection of North Street and West Street; east to a point
that is 125 feet north of and 200 feet east of the intersection of North Street
and East Street; south to a point that is 125 feet south of and 200 feet east
of the intersection of East Street and SR 32; west to a point that is 125 feet
south of and 125 feet west of the intersection of West Street and SR 32 (all
measurements taken from the street centerlines).
      (2)   Integrated Residential/Commercial.  From the intersection of
Chicago Street and Jameson Street, east to the intersection of Chicago Street
and Park Street, south to the intersection of Main Street and Indianapolis
Avenue, southeast to the intersection of Indianapolis Avenue and Elm Street,
west to the intersection of Elm Street and Evans Street, south 350 feet, west
to Jameson Street, north to the intersection of Chicago Street and Jameson
Street. This area excludes the Commercial Core in subsection (B)(1) above (all
measurements taken from the street centerlines).
   (C)   General provisions/applicability.  This chapter applies to any:
      (1)   Site or structure being located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved, altered, converted or enlarged that would require a
development plan. Projects requiring an improvement location permit or a
certificate of compliance with safety codes may need to comply with
requirements of these sections at the discretion of the Planning and Zoning
Administrator;
      (2)   Lot being used, altered or excavated;
      (3)   Existing uses being expanded, changed or new uses added; and
      (4)   Streetscape improvements including exterior facades, landscaping,
lighting, street furnishings or other improvements.
   (D)   Relation to underlying zoning.  In the case that this Overlay District
overlaps other Overlay Districts, or where conflicting regulations occur, the
following shall apply.
      (1)   The regulations of the Downtown Overlay District shall supercede
the regulations of the Thoroughfare Overlay District. The Thoroughfare Overlay
District shall supercede the regulations of the Interstate Overlay District.
Where no special regulations are included within a specific Overlay District,
the regulations of the underlying Overlay District shall apply, or in the case
of no underlying Overlay District, the regulations of the underlying zoning
district shall apply.
      (2)   In the case of conflicting regulations between the Thoroughfare
Overlay District regulations of this section and other regulations in this
ordinance, the hierarchy detailed in subsection (D)(1) above shall determine
which regulations control.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   A development plan is required for proposed new development or
expansion of developments constituting more than 30% of the existing in the
Downtown Overlay District. The Plan Commission shall review all development
plan applications in accordance with §
9.17.
      (2)   Single-family uses on individual lots do not require Plan
Commission approval and may be reviewed administratively by the city’s
Technical Assistance Committee. The Planning and Zoning Administrator or his or
her designee may grant approval. Single-family uses on individual lots are
subject to development plan approval by the Plan Commission only when they are
part of a major subdivision.
      (3)   Structures wholly or partly used as a dwelling/residence/commercial
or service business shall be required to obtain a certificate of compliance, as
per §
9.12 when a new lease/agreement is made or when there is a change of use or
tenant. The certificate of compliance may require an inspection for compliance
with the City Building Code. These projects generally will only require staff
review but the Planning and Zoning Administrator/Building Inspector may require
review by the Technical Assistance Committee.
   (F)   Development and design standards.  The guidelines and standards
contained herein provide guidance for quality design and compatible development
consistent with the historic character of the area.
      (1)   Streets.  The existing city street grid shall be maintained
including provisions for alleys where possible. New construction shall observe
maximum setbacks and locate close to the right-of-way to engage the pedestrian
and encourage street activity.
      (2)   Sidewalks.
         (a)   Minimum sidewalk width shall be six feet.
         (b)   Special paving is encouraged for sidewalks in the downtown core.
         (c)   Special paving shall be used for crosswalks to distinguish the
pedestrian areas from vehicular areas.
         (d)   Supporting columns, landscaping as specified in §
7.8, street furniture, street trees and signs as specified in §
7.7, shall be permitted within the sidewalk area within the Downtown Overlay
district provided that a minimum horizontal clearance of 42 inches is
maintained at all times.
         (e)   The minimum vertical clearance between the established grade of
the public right-of-way and the underside of the encroaching structure shall be
a minimum of nine feet.
      (3)   Off-street parking.
         (a)   Minimum off-street parking requirements within the Commercial
Core shall be one-half of the required spaces specified in
Table 7.4: Schedule of Parking Standards.
         (b)   Off-street parking shall not be located in the front yard of any
structure within the Commercial Core.
         (c)   Shared and off-site parking shall be permitted in accordance
with §
7.5.
         (d)   Parking lots within the Downtown Overlay District must be
screened in accordance with §
7.8.
         (e)   Bicycle parking shall be required in accordance with §
7.5.
      (4)   Loading.  Loading dock entrances for nonresidential uses shall be
screened so that loading docks and related activity are not visible from the
public street right-of-way or adjacent residential uses.
      (5)   Vehicle and driveway access.
         (a)   Curb cuts from public streets are not permitted if an alley is
present adjacent to the side or rear property line.
         (b)   Shared driveways are encouraged for lots that do not abut
alleys.
      (6)   Landscaping and screening.
         (a)   Parking lot screening may include brick or masonry walls,
instead of plant materials.
         (b)   A corridor buffer is not required in the Downtown Overlay
District.
      (7)   Street trees.
         (a)   Street trees shall be planted a minimum distance of two feet
from the curb. A list of suitable trees for street planting can be found in
Table 7.11: Trees for Planting on Streets, Highways and Parking Lots (generally
with high canopies, shade producing, hardy) or
Table 7.12: Trees for Planting on Streets and Highways that Minimize Conflict
With Overhead Utilities of §
7.8.
         (b)   Street trees shall be planted within the sidewalk right-of-way,
provided that a horizontal sidewalk clearance of 42 inches is maintained. Trees
shall be in a minimum planting area of 25 square feet. Tree grates may be used
to maintain the required clearance.
      (8)   Lighting; pedestrian-scaled street lighting (not including site
lighting).
         (a)   Ornamental street lights should attempt to maintain the style
established by existing lighting on the Court House Square.
         (b)   Maximum light pole height shall be 20 feet.
         (c)   The light fixture shall direct light downward and be full
cutoff, cutoff or semi-cutoff.
      (9)   Fencing and walls.
         (a)   Chainlink fencing shall be prohibited in the front yard. Fencing
in the front yard shall be a minimum of 50% open.
         (b)   Retaining walls located adjacent to a sidewalk along a public
street shall not exceed a height of two feet. Retaining walls shall be split-
face or textured finish concrete block faced with stone, brick or stucco.
      (10)   Signs.
         (a)   Sign area for uses in the Downtown Overlay District shall be one
and one-half square feet per one linear foot of building frontage for an
aggregate maximum of 100 square feet. The total aggregate sign area may be
increased to 150 square feet if a combination of sign types (awning,
projecting, suspended) is used.
         (b)   Signs shall be externally illuminated as per §
7.7.
         (c)   Commercial Core.
            (1)   Ground signs shall not be permitted in the Commercial Core.
            (2)   Electronic message board signs are not permitted within the
Commercial Core.
         (d)   Integrated Residential/Commercial.
            (1)   The maximum height of post signs shall be five feet within
the integrated residential/commercial area.
            (2)   The sign area of post signs shall not exceed 20 square feet.
      (11)   Public art.  Public art including sculptures, play equipment,
children’s fountains, bicycle racks and street furniture shall be permitted and
is encouraged on private property, within public spaces, and within off-street
public right-of-way, provided that a horizontal sidewalk clearance of 42 inches
is maintained.
      (12)   Indoor/outdoor operations.  All uses and operations must be indoor
except off-street parking or loading areas, automated teller machines (ATMs),
outdoor seating areas (alone or associated with a restaurant) or similar uses,
provided that a horizontal sidewalk clearance of 42 inches is maintained.
      (13)   Use location.
         (a)   Commercial uses.  Single-family residential uses on individual
lots are exempt from this standard.
            (1)   General.  Ground floor commercial uses should be oriented to
the street.
            (2)   Commercial Core.  All commercial and mixed-use structures in
the Commercial Core shall have commercial uses located on 100% of the ground
floor.
            (3)   Integrated Residential/Commercial.  All commercial and mixed-
use structures in the Integrated Residential/Commercial Core shall have
commercial uses located on 50% of the ground floor.
         (b)   Residential uses.  For nonresidential, mixed-use and multifamily
residential structures, residential uses shall not be placed in any location
within the first floor of a building that faces a collector street, arterial
street or interstate.
      (14)   Architectural standards.  The standards in §
7.18 shall apply in addition to the following.
         (a)   Transparency (building facade/windows).  A minimum of 50% of
each facade between two feet and ten feet high shall be transparent. First-
floor residential buildings and places of worship are excluded from this
requirement.
         (b)   Front porch.  New residential construction in neighborhoods
where more than 70% of homes have front porches of 32 square feet or more shall
be required to have a front porch of at least 32 square feet.
         (c)   Building mass.
            (1)   Residential.  For single- and two-family residential, new
residential construction shall be of similar scale as the adjacent two homes on
either side of the lot, and the three homes across the street, equaling a total
of six homes for comparison.
            (2)   Nonresidential and multifamily.
               a.   New construction and renovations shall be compatible with
existing development patterns and shall be oriented to the street.
               b.   Within the Commercial Core, the minimum building height
shall be two floors.
         (d)   Story change. There shall be a clear delineation between each
story of the structure provided by a consistent cornice line.
         (e)   Residential garages.  Garages shall be accessed from the alley
or side street. If front-loading, the garage face shall be set back ten feet
from the front living area facade.
         (f)   Storefronts.  Storefronts shall be internally illuminated with
spots or other incandescent lighting, so as to display prominently and
attractively the business or its products. Exterior lighting may be affixed to
the buildings.
   (G)   Conversion standards.  Refer to §
7.20.
   (H)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   All uses prohibited by the Thoroughfare Overlay District are
prohibited in the Downtown Overlay District.
      (2)   Drive-through facilities (not including pedestrian-only service
windows) are prohibited in the Commercial Core.
      (3)   Car ports are prohibited in the Commercial Core.
   (I)   Accessory uses and building mechanical.  Accessory uses and building
mechanical shall be located to the side or rear of the principal structure and
shall be located in the location of least visibility from the public right-of-
way. Mechanical equipment shall be screened in accordance with §
7.8.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-23-2008; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 4-13-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV. §
7.14
   Sign regulations for sign types and additional regulations, see Title XV, §
7.7
CHAPTER 7:  DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section
   
7.1   Application
   
7.2   Sight visibility triangle
   
7.3   Height standards
   
7.4   Lot standards
   
7.5   Parking standards
   
7.6   Loading standards
   
7.7   Sign regulations
   
7.8   Landscaping
   
7.9   Environmental standards
   
7.10   Accessory uses and structures
   
7.11   Temporary uses
   
7.12   Home occupation standards
   
7.13   Outdoor sales, display and storage
   
7.14   Fence and wall standards
   
7.15   Exterior lighting standards
   
7.16   Telecommunications facilities
   
7.17   Adult businesses standards
   
7.18   Design standards
   
7.19   Manufactured home parks standards
   
7.20   Single-family to multifamily conversion standards
   
7.21   Specific use standards
   
7.22   Infill development standards
§ 7.1  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applicability.  All structures, land uses, land use changes,
structural alterations, structural relocations, structural additions and
structural enlargements that are constructed, created, established or occur
after the effective date of this ordinance (except as may otherwise be provided
within this ordinance) shall be subject to all development standards and
regulations applicable to the zoning district in which they are located. All
projects approved prior to the effective date of this ordinance shall adhere to
the terms and conditions of approval and/or written commitments made under the
zoning ordinance that was in place at the time of filing.
   (B)   Expansion or modification of existing uses and structures.  No
structure, parking area or other site feature regulated by this ordinance shall
be enlarged, altered or expanded unless the minimum improvements required by
this article are provided on the property in a manner equal to the extent of
its alteration or expansion.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.2  SIGHT VISIBILITY TRIANGLE.
   All properties, with the exception of those in the Commercial Core of the
Central Business District (CB), shall maintain a clear area (the “sight
visibility triangle”) at every intersection of an adjoining street with other
streets and entrance drives.
   (A)   Clearance.  The sight visibility triangle shall be free of structures,
vegetation, signs (other than street signs) and other opaque or partially
opaque objects between a height of three feet and eight feet as measured from
the nearest top-of-curb (or edge of pavement where curbs are not present).
   (B)   Dimensions.  The triangle is determined by a diagonal line connecting
two points measured 25 feet from the intersection of the projected rights-of-
way lines. In cases where the edge of pavement is coincidental with the right-
of-way, the points shall be measured 35 feet from the intersection of the edges
of pavement.
   (C)   Public signs and signals.  The above provisions shall not apply to
official warning signs or signals necessary to the public safety.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2167.jpg]
 
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.3  HEIGHT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Height requirements.  The maximum height permitted shall be as
described in
Table 4.2: Residential Districts Lot Standards, subject to the exceptions
listed in this section.
      (1)   Measuring height.  In all instances, the height of a structure
shall be measured from adjacent grade level to the highest point of the
structure, excluding the necessary appurtenances such as chimneys, church
spires, steeples, clock or bell towers, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads,
fire towers, penthouses, stacks, tanks, water towers, transmission towers or
essential mechanical equipment not prohibited by other laws or further
provisions of this ordinance.
      (2)   Additional residential limitations.  No accessory structure located
in a residential zoning district may exceed the height of the principal
structure on the property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2169.jpg]
 
   Height Illustration
   (B)   Height exceptions.  No structure may be erected or changed so as to
make its height greater than specified in the applicable zoning district,
except as noted below. For the purposes of this section, the height of church
steeples, chimneys and other structures which are attached or otherwise a part
of another structure shall be measured from grade level.
      (1)   General exceptions.  The following structures may exceed the
permitted height regulations by twofold (x 2):
         (a)   Church steeples;
         (b)   Spires, belfries and cupolas; and
         (c)   Industrial related storage tanks, mechanical equipment and
smokestacks.
      (2)   Height of residential structures.  In the districts limiting the
height of single-family residential structures to 35 feet, a dwelling may be
increased in height not to exceed 40 feet provided the required side yards are
increased two additional feet for each foot the structure exceeds 35 feet in
height.
      (3)   Telecommunications towers and antenna.  The height of
telecommunication towers and antenna shall meet the requirements of §
7.16.
      (4)   Amateur radio towers.  Amateur radio towers shall meet the
requirements of §
7.10.
      (5)   Necessary appurtenances.  The following structural elements may
exceed the permitted height standards for the zoning district in which they are
located by up to ten feet:
         (a)   Necessary mechanical appurtenances;
         (b)   Utility substations and related essential facilities;
         (c)   Water tanks;
         (d)   Chimneys;
         (e)   Fire towers;
         (f)   Stair towers;
         (g)   Stage bulkheads; and
         (h)   Elevator bulkheads.
      (6)   Water towers.  Water towers may exceed the permitted height
standards for the zoning district in which they are located and may be erected
to a maximum height of 200 feet.
   (C)   FAA requirements.  Nothing in this ordinance, including the exceptions
listed above shall be interpreted as waiving any height regulations related to
air travel. All applicable Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) restrictions
and regulations shall apply to all structures.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.4  LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Required setbacks.
      (1)   Minimums.  Minimum required setbacks shall be as set forth in each
district
Table 4.2: Residential Districts Lot Standards and
Table 4.3: Nonresidential Districts Lot Standards. The required setback shall
be measured from the existing right-of-way or the proposed right-of-way as set
forth in the Center Township thoroughfare plan, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Through lots.  Any lot having a frontage on two approximately
parallel streets or abutting more than one street, shall be considered to have
two or more front yards and shall conform to the minimum setbacks as specified
for each district in
Chapter 4.
      (3)   Corner lots.  Any lot having a frontage on two approximately
perpendicular streets shall be considered to have two or more front yards.
      (4)   Alley abutting rear or side yard.  Principal structures shall be
set back as specified in
Chapter 4. Accessory structures on the rear or side of a lot abutting an alley
shall be set back a minimum of five feet from the right-of-way (not the edge of
pavement).
      (5)   Obstruction.  Minimum required yards or building setback distances
shall be unobstructed and open to the sky, except for customary projections and
signs, in accordance with
Chapter 4 of this ordinance.
   (B)   Permitted encroachments in required yards.  No structure or part
thereof shall encroach upon any required yard. However, the following shall not
be considered encroachments when located within the required yards except in
areas required for vision clearance at intersections.
      (1)   Permitted encroachments in required front yards.
         (a)   An eave, cornice, overhang, awning, porch, balcony or bay window
not exceeding four feet; provided, however, that in no event shall the
encroachment protrude closer than 20 feet to a front lot line. However, in the
Central Business (CB) District, these encroachments may be permitted subject to
the standards of the Downtown Overlay District, provided they do not interfere
with intersection visibility as set for in §
7.2 or with the Board of Public Works and Safety requirements for sidewalk
clearance;
         (b)   The ordinary projection of belt courses, sills, lintels,
chimneys and other similar ornamental and architectural features not exceeding
two feet;
         (c)   Unenclosed, uncovered steps, entrance platforms, terraces or
landings not over 18 inches above grade level and not to project a distance in
excess of ten feet;
         (d)   Accessory uses such as public utility installations, walks,
driveways, curbs, mail boxes, name plates, lamp posts, bird baths and
structures of a like nature in any required front, side or rear yard;
         (e)   Fences that are at least 50% open, walls and hedges not to
exceed 42 inches in height; and
         (f)   Plants including trees, shrubs and perennials.
      (2)   Permitted encroachments in required side and rear yards.
         (a)   An eave, cornice overhang, awning, canopy or balcony not
exceeding four feet; provided, however, that the encroachment shall not
protrude closer than 50% of the required distance to any side or rear lot line;
         (b)   The ordinary projection of belt courses, sills, lintels,
chimneys and other similar ornamental and architectural features not exceeding
two feet; provided, however, that the encroachment shall not protrude closer
than 50% of the required distance to the rear lot line;
         (c)   Unenclosed, uncovered steps, entrance platforms, terraces or
landings not over 18 inches above grade level and shall not encroach more than
50% into the yard;
         (d)   Accessory uses such as public utility installations, walks,
driveways, curbs, retaining walls, mail boxes, name plates, lamp posts, bird
baths and structures of a like nature;
         (e)   Fences, latticework, screens, hedges or walls not more than six
feet in height;
         (f)   Plants including trees, shrubs and perennials;
         (g)   Open, off-street parking spaces, according to the provisions set
forth in §
7.5; and
         (h)   Balconies, breezeways and open porches and decks; provided,
however, that the encroachment shall not protrude closer than 50% of the
required distance to the side and rear lot line.
      (3)   Agricultural use.  Nothing contained in this subsection shall be
deemed to prohibit the erection or maintenance of an open fence in connection
with an agricultural use.
      (4)   Setback distance exceptions.  Any yard or setback line so placed or
oriented that none of the specific terms in this ordinance are applicable shall
necessitate a determination by the Planning and Zoning Administrator of
suitable dimensions generally required for a similar situation in the zoning
district.
   (C)   Placement of structures.
      (1)   Lot access and frontage.  Every building hereafter erected or moved
shall be located on a lot with frontage and access on a public street; or with
frontage and access to an approved private street and all buildings shall be so
located on lots as to provide for safe and convenient access, fire protection
and required off-street parking.
      (2)   Lot dimensions.  Every building hereafter erected shall be located
on a lot which meets the minimum zoning requirements for the district in which
it is located unless otherwise specified for planned unit developments or as
specified in
Chapter 6.
      (3)   Relocation of structures.  No buildings or structures shall be
moved from one lot or premises to another unless the building shall thereupon
conform to all the regulations of the zoning district to which the building
shall be moved.
      (4)   One principal building per lot.  In no case shall there be more
than one principal structure and associated accessory structure located on one
lot; except that principal structures designated and platted as a single unit
under single ownership and control, such as multifamily developments, shopping
centers and combined industrial operations may be permitted on one lot in
accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
      (5)   Placing structures over utility easements.  No building or
structure shall be placed or erected over utility easements, except for lot
line fences which shall be subject to the paramount right of the utility or
municipality to install, repair, maintain or replace its installation.
   (D)   Exceptions to district requirements.
      (1)   Infill development; front setback.  The front setback shall be as
required in
Table 4.2: Residential Districts Lot Standards and
Table 4.3: Nonresidential Districts Lot Standards. Except in areas where 50% or
more of the lots in a block are developed, the average of the existing front
setbacks of structures for 150 feet on either side may be used as the minimum
front setback.
      (2)   No part of a required setback (yard), open space, off-street
parking, loading space or bufferyard shall be included as part of a required
yard, open space or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for
any other building, unless specified elsewhere in this ordinance.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Condominium property law, see I.C. 32-25
§ 7.5  PARKING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Intent.  The regulations of this section are designed to alleviate or
prevent congestion of the public streets by establishing minimum requirements
for off-street parking of motor vehicles, in accordance with the use on the
property as specified in
Table 7.4: Schedule of Parking Standards.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Parking spaces shall be located on the lot with the uses for which
they are required. Exceptions are for off-site and shared parking.
      (2)   When the requirement spaces for an unspecified use is unclear, the
number of parking spaces shall be determined by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator on the basis of similar requirement, the number of persons served
or employed, and the capability of adequately serving the visiting public. This
determination may be appealed to the Plan Commission. A variance request from
the requirement can be heard by the BZA, §
2.4.
      (3)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises
shall be expanded through the addition of dwelling units, floor area, beds,
seating capacity or other unit of measurement, parking and loading facilities
shall be provided for the increase in intensity of use.
      (4)   Whenever the existing use of a building, structure or premises
shall hereafter be changed or converted to a new use permitted by this
ordinance, parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required for the
new use.
   (C)   Layout and design.
      (1)   All off-street parking areas shall be constructed using a paved
surface of concrete, asphalt, brick pavers, approved pervious concrete or
pavers or the like. Single- and two-family dwellings in the SF, Single-Family
District, on a minimum two acre parcel, and agricultural uses shall be
permitted parking areas of gravel. All parking areas shall be clearly painted
to show each parking space.
      (2)   All required parking spaces shall be designed to provide direct
access for vehicles. In no case may parking areas which do not have direct
access be considered a parking space meeting the requirement of this ordinance.
Except in all single-family districts (SF, SF1, SF2, SF3, TR) and the Central
Business District (CB), if a parked vehicle prevents direct access to a
required parking space (double-stacked), it shall not be considered, nor count
toward the required minimum parking.
      (3)   All parking areas for nonresidential uses shall be completely
curbed. Complete curbing may not be required if, innovative drainage techniques
or stormwater best management practices (BMPs) are
employed, and in the written opinion of Lebanon Utilities, the drainage system
for the property and surrounding environment shall be best served if curbs were
not present. Curbing must meet the general parking requirements of §
7.8(J)(1).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2171.jpg]
 
   A Swale Situated Between Two Parking Lot Edges with Curb Cuts to Allow
Natural Water Filtration
      (4)   Individual spaces shall be designed so that no part of the parked
vehicle will extend beyond the boundary of the established parking area into
any minimum required yard or onto adjoining property.
      (5)   Parking spaces are unobstructed and have access to an aisle or
driveway so that any automobile may be moved without moving another, and so
that no maneuvering directly incidental to entering or leaving a parking space
shall be on any public right-of-way or walkway.
      (6)   Off-street parking spaces may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
building. In any instance, when a building is constructed or used for parking
facilities on the lot, the building shall be treated as any major structure and
subject to all requirements thereof.
      (7)   Parking areas may be provided with a one story shelter building or
guard building which shall not exceed 100 square feet of gross floor area and
shall conform to all the structural requirements of the district.
      (8)   All parking lots shall be subject to the landscaping and screening
requirements for parking lots as set forth in §
7.8.
      (9)   Any lighting facilities used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be so located, shielded and directed upon the parking area in a manner
that they do not reflect or cause glare onto adjacent properties or interfere
with street traffic. Refer to §
7.15 for standards.
      (10)   Trash and recycling dumpsters shall not be located in required
parking spaces.
      (11)   All parking areas shall provide means of pedestrian circulation to
the use and between the use and the street.
      (12)   Parking space size shall be a minimum of 180 square feet and
dimensions shall conform to
Table 7.1a: Parking Dimensions and
Table 7.1b: Parking Dimensions. In no instance shall the overhang of a vehicle
be considered as part of the required parking space area.
Table 7.1a: Parking Dimensions
Angle of Parking Minimum Parking Space Size Minimum Aisle Width
                 Width Length
Table 7.1a: Parking Dimensions
Angle of Parking Minimum Parking Space Size Minimum Aisle Width
                 Width  Length
Parallel         8 feet 22 feet             on-street
90 Degree*       9 feet 20 feet             24 feet
60 Degree        9 feet 20 feet             18 feet (for one way)
45 Degree        9 feet 20 feet             14 feet (for one way)
Disabled         (refer to ADA guidelines)
* Recommended size 10 feet by 20 feet
 
   Table 7.1b: Parking Dimensions
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2183.jpg]
 
   Upper left:  Double-loaded  parking
   Bottom left: Diagonal parking
      (13)   All parking spaces shall be provided with adequate maneuvering
space into which vehicles can back for the purpose of exiting the parking
space.
   (D)   Entrance and drive standards.
      (1)   Driveway entrances or exits at the right-of-way line shall be no
closer than 25 feet to an adjoining residential property line or ten feet to an
adjoining nonresidential property line.
      (2)   No driveway with two-way traffic at the right-of-way shall exceed a
width of 30 feet with the exception of a boulevard entrance with two one-way
drives with a median divider. The minimum width of each drive shall be as
specified in the thoroughfare plan.
   (E)   Parking spaces accessible to the disabled.  In conformance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, accessible parking shall be
provided for all developments per this ordinance and any further requirements
hereafter adopted by federal, state or local law.
      (1)   Required spaces.  Accessible parking spaces shall be provided at a
rate listed in
Table 7.2: Parking Spaces Accessible to the Disabled. Accessible spaces shall
count towards the required total number of parking spaces.
      (2)   Design and layout of accessible parking lots.  Access aisles and
accessible routes for the mobility impaired shall be provided pursuant to ADA
requirements, as amended. Accessible spaces must be a minimum of eight-feet
wide with a five foot access aisle. One of every eight spaces, however, must
have an access aisle of eight-feet wide and be designated “van accessible.”
      (3)   Passenger loading zones.  Passenger loading zones shall provide an
access aisle of a minimum of 20 feet in length, adjacent and parallel to the
vehicle pull up space. If there are curbs between the access aisle and the
vehicle pull up space, then a curb ramp shall be provided.
      (4)   Signage and marking.  All accessible spaces shall be designated by
the international access symbol. Van accessible spaces will be labeled by both
the international access symbol and an additional sign indicating that the
space is accessible for vans. Signs shall be a minimum of five and one-half
feet above ground level so as not to be obscured by parked vehicles. The
mobility impaired symbol shall also be painted on the ground to the rear of the
parking space.
   Symbol of International Access
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2173.jpg]
 
Table 7.2: Parking Spaces Accessible to the Disabled
Total Number of Parking Spaces in Lot Minimum Number of Accessible Spaces
                                      Required
Table 7.2: Parking Spaces Accessible to the Disabled
Total Number of Parking Spaces in Lot Minimum Number of Accessible Spaces
                                      Required
1 to 25                               1
26 to 50                              2
51 to 75                              3
76 to 100                             4
101 to 150                            5
151 to 200                            6
201 to 300                            7
301 to 400                            8
401 to 500                            9
501 to 1,000                          2% of total
1,001 and over                        20, plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
   (F)   Parking standards by use.
      (1)   Residential uses.  Residential parking standards applicable to the
Single-Family Residential, Multifamily Residential and Manufactured Home Park
Zoning Districts:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings.
            (1)   Generally.  Parking spaces for single-family zoning districts
shall be provided on the same lot as the dwelling unit for which they are
required and shall meet the following standards.
            (2)   Spaces requirements.  A minimum of two off-street paved
spaces are required for each dwelling unit.
               a.   Exception.  Parcels two acre or more in area that are not
part of a platted subdivision and are being used solely for a single-family
dwelling may utilize a gravel driveway for parking, so long as a concrete apron
is provided between the street and the right-of-way line.
               b.   Unenclosed vehicles.  A maximum of four operable vehicles
owned or leased by the residents are permitted outside in an unenclosed area.
Inoperable vehicles are not permitted in the front yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2175.jpg]
 
   A Residential Parking Illustration
         (b)   Manufactured home park dwellings.  Parking spaces for dwellings
in the MH zoning district shall be provided on the same site as the dwelling
unit for which they are required and shall meet the following standards.
            (1)   Space requirements.
               a.   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces are required for
each dwelling unit. In addition, parking spaces for management offices, sales
facilities, self-service laundries and other accessory uses shall be equal to
one-half of the requirements for those uses established in the nonresidential
section of this chapter.
               b.   A maximum of two operable vehicles owned or leased by the
residents are permitted outside in an unenclosed area. Inoperable vehicles are
not permitted in the front yard.
            (2)   Access/location standards.  Parking areas must be designed to
prevent vehicles from having to back into or maneuver in public streets
(excluding all alleys and any streets that are internal to the development).
         (c)   Multifamily dwellings.  Parking spaces for dwellings in the
Multifamily (MF) Zoning District shall meet the following standards:
            (1)   Space requirements.  Parking shall be required for each
dwelling unit (rounded up to the nearest complete space) according to
Table 7.4: Schedule of Parking Standards. In addition, parking spaces for
management offices, sales facilities, self-service laundries and other
accessory uses shall be equal to one-half of the requirements for those uses.
            (2)   Parking of the disabled.  The required spaces shall include
parking for the disabled meeting the requirements of subsection (E) above. The
minimum number of disabled spaces provided shall either be as specified in the
disabled space standards table or equal one space for every handicap-
accessible dwelling unit, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Nonresidential uses.  Nonresidential parking standards applicable
to the Commercial, Industrial and Institutional Zoning Districts or uses,
except where otherwise noted, are as follows.
         (a)   General standards.  Parking spaces shall be located on the lot
with the use(s) for which they are required. All parking spaces and interior
drives shall meet the following requirements.
         (b)   Minimum required spaces.  The minimum number of parking spaces
required per property shall be determined by the sum of spaces required for
each applicable use in
Table 7.4: Schedule of Parking Standards.
         (c)   Exceeding the minimum requirements.
            (1)   A parking lot containing more than 30 or more parking spaces
that exceeds the minimum parking space requirements by more than 10% shall also
increase the required interior parking lot landscaping for the entire site by
5%.
            (2)   A 15% increase in required parking may be permitted without
restriction and above the set maximum if the developer constructs all
additional parking spaces with pervious pavement or employs the use of best
management practices (BMPs) for stormwater filtration as approved by the
Administrator.
         (d)   Cross-access requirement.  Cross-access easements shall be
established when a parcel abuts another parcel similarly zoned to reduce
congestion on public streets. The easements shall:
            (1)   Not be less than 20 feet in width; and
            (2)   Not exceed 30 feet in width.
         (e)   Pedestrian considerations.  Safe connections shall be provided
within parking lots which connect to the on-site businesses. The use of special
pavement materials to distinguish between pedestrian and vehicular areas is
encouraged, unless required by the zoning or Overlay District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2177.jpg]
 
   Parking Lot with a Special Pavement Pedestrian Pathway
         (f)   Employee and customer parking.  Adequate employee and customer
off-street parking areas shall be provided, including areas incidental to
display, servicing and repair. No parking shall be permitted on driveway
approaches, landscaped areas, adjacent alleys or streets, on any public right-
of-way or in a manner as to restrict motorists’ visibility.
         (g)   Use of parking facilities.  Off-street parking facilities shall
be utilized solely for the parking of passenger automobiles or light trucks of
less than one-ton capacity, belonging to patrons, occupants or employees of
specified uses. Parking facilities shall not be used for the storage, display,
sale, repair, dismantling or wrecking of any vehicle, equipment or material,
unless the facilities are enclosed in a building and otherwise permitted in the
district.
         (h)   Advertisements.  No business signs or advertisements shall be
permitted in parking areas without a permit, except directional and
identification signs as permitted in accordance with §
7.7.
         (i)   Parking facility location.  Off-street parking areas including
spaces, drive aisles and other maneuvering shall be permitted within the
required setback subject to the following conditions and except where noted.
            (1)   No paved portion of the parking area shall be located within
ten feet of the right-of-way in any designated front yard or of a required
buffer or planting area.
            (2)   No paved portions of the parking area shall be located within
five feet of any side or rear yard property line nor within a required buffer
or planting area.
         (j)   Buffers and perimeter landscaping.  All applicable requirements
for buffers and perimeter landscaping shall be met per §
7.8.
         (k)   Cart corrals.  Cart corrals shall be provided for commercial
retail businesses over 35,000 square feet. The cart corrals shall not be
located in required parking spaces, nor displace required landscape areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2179.jpg]
 
   Cart Corral
   (G)   Central Business District (CB) and Downtown Overlay District.
      (1)   In order to accommodate the unique built environment of the
downtown, minimum off-street parking standards shall be provided at one-half of
those required in
Table 7.4: Schedule of Parking Standards.
      (2)   On-street parking of one space per 22 feet of street frontage may
be counted towards required parking. On-street parallel parking shall be
allowed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2181.jpg]
 
   On-Street, Off-Street and Bicycle Parking in the CB District
      (3)   Parking spaces accessible to the disabled (whether off-street or
on-street) will still be required at a rate of one space per 25 spaces with a
minimum of one space.
      (4)   Required off-street loading and unloading spaces shall not be
construed as being part of the required off-street parking spaces.
      (5)   No part of any alley shall be used to meet the minimum parking
requirements of this ordinance.
   (H)   Drive-through stacking.  Drive through establishments shall provide
stacking space for the queuing of vehicles awaiting service in accordance with
the standards in
Table 7.4: Schedule of Parking Standards and the following provisions.
      (1)   Each stacking space shall be 20-feet long and a minimum of nine-
feet wide.
      (2)   Lane widths should be delineated with pavement markings. However,
individual spaces within the lane need not be marked.
      (3)   Any drive-through use not listed in
Table 7.4: Schedule of Parking Standards shall be required to provide at least
four stacking spaces per drive-through window.
      (4)   Stacking spaces shall be in addition to the required parking spaces
and must not be located within a required driveway, internal circulation system
or parking aisle.
   (I)   Off-site and shared parking.
      (1)   Off-site parking.  Off-site parking may be allowed on another lot
that is within 500 feet of the lot occupied by the use(s) for which it is
required.
      (2)   Shared parking.  Two or more uses for which the normal hours of
operation do not substantially overlap may share parking either on or off-site
(example: a church may share its parking lot with a business, or with
apartments located on upper-floors of adjacent businesses). The Planning and
Zoning Administrator may grant a maximum 20% reduction in required parking.
         (a)   Applicability.  In order to reduce the total required parking in
large mixed-use facilities in which uses operate at different times from one
another, the following shared parking schedule may be substituted for required
parking ratios in the facilities. However, the total number of parking spaces
required per
Table 7.4: Schedule of Parking Standards, shall not be reduced by more than
20%.
         (b)   How to use the schedule of shared parking.  Calculate the number
of spaces required for each use if it were freestanding (refer to
Table 7.4: Schedule of Parking Standards). Applying the applicable general land
use category to each proposed site, use the percentages to calculate the number
of spaces required for each time period, (six-time periods per use). Add the
number of spaces required for all applicable land uses to obtain a total
parking requirement for each time period. Select the time period with the
highest total parking requirement and use the total as the mixed-use parking
requirement.
Table 7.3: Schedule of Shared Parking Calculations
General Land
Use             Weekdays                        Weekends
Classifications
                Midnight - 7:00 a.m. 6:00 p.m.  Midnight - 7:00 a.m. 6:00 p.m.
                7:00 a.m.  - 6:00    - Midnight 7:00 a.m.  - 6:00    - Midnight
                           p.m.                            p.m.
Table 7.3: Schedule of Shared Parking Calculations
General Land
Use             Weekdays                        Weekends
Classifications
                Midnight - 7:00 a.m. 6:00 p.m.  Midnight - 7:00 a.m. 6:00 p.m.
                7:00 a.m.  - 6:00    - Midnight 7:00 a.m.  - 6:00    - Midnight
                           p.m.                            p.m.
Cinema/theater  0%         70%       100%       5%         70%       100%
Hotel           100%       65%       90%        100%       65%       80%
Office and      5%         100%      5%         0%         60%       10%
industrial
Residential     100%       55%       85%        100%       65%       75%
Restaurant      50%        70%       100%       45%        70%       100%
Retail          0%         100%      80%        0%         100%      60%
 
      (3)   Approval requirements.  All off-site and shared parking space
arrangements are subject to the approval of the Administrator. Approvals shall
be based on the determination that the use of off-site and/or shared parking
will not provide hardships for pedestrians, will not result in potentiality
hazardous traffic conditions and will provide an adequate number of parking
spaces for the uses involved. The parking needs of possible future uses of the
property shall also be considered by the Administrator.
      (4)   Required documentation.  A permanent documentation of any off-site
and/or shared parking agreement must be signed by all involved property owners.
The permanent written agreement shall include, but is not limited to, the
following items: maintenance; snow removal; ownership; and liability. The
agreement shall be reviewed and approved by the Administrator and the City
Attorney. A copy of the agreement shall be retained for the files of the Plan
Commission. Cross-access easements shall be provided and recorded by each
property owner to enable the sharing of parking facilities. Amendments to the
agreement shall be subject to Administrator approval and be duly recorded with
the County Recorder.
   (J)   Vehicle storage requirements.
      (1)   General provisions.  No vehicle may be parked or stored on any
surface other than a paved driveway or enclosed within a structure.
      (2)   Unregistered and inoperable vehicles.  Unregistered and inoperable
vehicles, including recreational, commercial or trailers of any type without
current license plates and inspection sticker, or in an inoperable condition so
as to be deemed dead storage, shall be prohibited in residential districts,
unless located in completely enclosed buildings and shall not be parked or
stored in any zoning district unless specifically authorized under the terms of
this ordinance.
      (3)   Vehicle storage.  Except on property where a parking lot or parking
garage is the permitted principal use, no vehicle, including recreational and
commercial vehicles, shall be parked, stored or allowed to remain on a lot or
parcel of land that does not contain a principal structure.
      (4)   Stored vehicles to be salvaged/repaired.  The outdoor storage of
vehicles associated with permitted auto repair or salvage facilities shall be
consistent with the following requirements.
         (a)   All vehicles, including antique vehicles, shall be stored within
the rear or side yard. In no case shall the vehicles be stored in any front
yard between the front building facade and the street, or within any buffer
yard, required landscape area or required setback area.
         (b)   All storage areas for those vehicles shall be completely
enclosed with an eight-foot tall, opaque wood, stone or masonry fence. Chain
link fences may be permitted if supplemented by plant material that forms a
continuous landscape screen composed of evergreens and a minimum of six-feet
high. Gates allowing access to the storage areas shall be closed when not in
use, and shall be a minimum of eight feet in height and 100% opaque.
      (5)   Recreational vehicle storage.  The storage or parking of
recreational vehicles (including travel-trailers, boats, snowmobile or
motorcycle trailers and the like) in residential zoning districts and
associated with residential uses is subject to the following requirements.
         (a)   A recreational vehicle may be stored on a residential property
provided the vehicle is fully enclosed by an opaque fence a minimum of six feet
in height.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle may be parked in the front yard on a
residential lot, outside of an enclosed structure only, for a period not to
exceed a total of 48 hours in any one-week period.
         (c)   No more than one recreational vehicles may be parked outdoors on
a residential parcel at any one time.
         (d)   At no time shall a recreational vehicle be occupied or used for
living, sleeping or housekeeping purpose.
         (e)   The Planning and Zoning Administrator may require a land owner
to verify that the vehicle is licensed and operational.
      (6)   Commercial vehicles in residential areas.  The storage or parking
of a commercial vehicle in residential zoning districts or primarily
residential PUDs or commercial districts shall be subject to the following
requirements.
         (a)   The parking of a vehicle shall be limited to one standard size
vehicle including cars, SUVs and pick-up trucks.
         (b)   The vehicle is parked in and fully enclosed in a permitted
structure such as garage, accessory building or rear yard and is used by an
occupant of the premises.
         (c)   Large trucks, vehicular machinery, semi-trailers or tractors or
similar vehicles are prohibited from parking on local streets and in
residential areas.
         (d)   The regulation shall not be interpreted to apply to commercial
vehicles used for conveying the necessary tools and materials to premises where
labor, using tools and materials, is to be performed during the time of parking
vehicles, or to commercial vehicles in the process of temporarily loading or
unloading deliverable goods.
   (K)   Bicycle parking.  All nonresidential uses shall provide one designated
bicycle parking area for every 25 vehicle parking spaces required by this
ordinance, with a minimum provision for two bicycle spaces. Each bicycle area
shall provide adequate facilities for securing the parked bicycles.
Table 7.4:  Schedule of Parking Standards
Type of Use Minimum Number of Spaces Required** Notes
Table 7.4:  Schedule of Parking Standards
                                                           Minimum
Type of Use                                                Number of     Notes
                                                           Spaces
                                                           Required**
Agricultural Uses
Customary general farming uses                             2 spaces per   
                                                           dwelling unit
                                                           1 spaces per
                                                           500 square
                                                           feet of
                                                           enclosed
                                                           sales area;
Farm equipment sales and service                           plus 1 space   
                                                           per 2,500
                                                           square feet
                                                           of open sales
                                                           area; plus 1
                                                           space per
                                                           employee
                                                           1 space per
                                                           300 square
                                                           feet of
                                                           interior
                                                           sales; plus 1
                                                           space per
Greenhouse or plant nursery                                1,000 square   
                                                           feet for
                                                           outdoor
                                                           operations;
                                                           plus 1 space
                                                           per employee
                                                           on largest
                                                           shift
                                                           1 space per 4
Horse stable                                               stalls; plus   
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee
Raising of non-farm fowl and animals commercially, except  1 space per
a kennel (animal breeding)                                 employee on    
                                                           largest shift
Truck garden or produce stand                              4 spaces per   
                                                           stand
Institutional Uses
                                                           1 space per
                                                           acre; plus 20
                                                           spaces per
                                                           field or
Active park                                                court; plus 1  
                                                           space per 100
                                                           square feet
                                                           of water
                                                           surface
                                                           1 space for
                                                           every 5 tie-
                                                           down or
Airport (general aviation)                                 hangar spaces  
                                                           at airport or
                                                           heliport;
                                                           plus 1 space
                                                           per employee;
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee plus
                                                           provision of
Cemetery                                                   space for      
                                                           parking along
                                                           internal
                                                           drives
                                                           1 space per 4
Church or synagogue                                        seats in the   
                                                           largest
                                                           assembly room
Community center                                           1 space per 3  
                                                           persons
                                                           1 space per 4
Day care (adult, child)                                    persons at     
                                                           maximum
                                                           capacity
                                                           1 space per
Facility for development disabled/mentally ill             employee;      
                                                           plus 1 space
                                                           per 3 clients
                                                           1 space per
                                                           full-time
                                                           employee plus
                                                           1 space per 3
                                                           volunteers on
Fire station                                               a normal       
                                                           shift plus
                                                           space to
                                                           accommodate
                                                           all vehicles
                                                           for this use
                                                           1 space per
Heliport                                                   employee;      
                                                           plus 1 space
                                                           per passenger
Hospital                                                   2 spaces per   
                                                           bed
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
Jail                                                       largest shift  
                                                           plus 1 space
                                                           per 8 cells
                                                           1 space per
Library (public), art gallery or museum                    800 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
Municipal, county or governmental building                 300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
Penal or correctional institution                          largest        
                                                           shift; plus
                                                           one space per
                                                           20 inmates
                                                           1 space per
                                                           300 square
Police                                                     feet, plus 1   
                                                           space per
                                                           company
                                                           vehicle
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest
                                                           shift; plus 1
Post office                                                space per 250  
                                                           square feet
                                                           of floor area
                                                           open to the
                                                           public
                                                           Spaces
                                                           equivalent to
                                                           1% of the
                                                           total land
                                                           area (parking
                                                           along park
                                                           roads may be
Public park or outdoor recreational facilities             used to fill   
                                                           this
                                                           requirement);
                                                           plus
                                                           additional
                                                           parking
                                                           provided for
                                                           major
                                                           facilities
                                                           1 space for
Radio and television studios                               each 2         
                                                           employees
                                                           1 space per
Sanitary fill (public or commercial)                       employee on    
                                                           largest shift
School: public, private, parochial or special                            
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee;
   Nursery school, kindergarten                         plus 1 space   
                                                           per 5
                                                           attendees
   K-8                                                  2.5 spaces     
                                                           per classroom
                                                                         Additional
                                                           1 space per 5 parking may
                                                           students;     be required
   9-12                                                 plus one      during the
                                                           space per     conditional
                                                           employee      use
                                                                         approval
                                                                         process
                                                           1 space per
                                                           200 square
   Trade or business school, college or university      feet of gross  
                                                           floor area;
                                                           plus 1 space
                                                           per employee
   University/college                                   1 space per 3  
                                                           students
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest shift
Sewage treatment or disposal plant                         plus 1 space   
                                                           for each
                                                           company
                                                           vehicle
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest shift
Utility service facility (excluding offices)               plus spaces    
                                                           for
                                                           operational
                                                           vehicles
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest
                                                           shift; plus
                                                           one space per
                                                           company
                                                           vehicle
Utility company business office                            parked on the  
                                                           premises;
                                                           plus one
                                                           space per
                                                           1,000 square
                                                           feet of floor
                                                           area open to
                                                           the public
                                                           4 spaces per  No long-
Veterinary hospital for small animals                      treatment     term
                                                           room          boarding
Professional Services/Office
                                                           1 space per
                                                           300 square
                                                           feet; plus 1
Bank and other financial institutions                      space per      
                                                           employee on
                                                           the largest
                                                           shift
                                                           Plus 4
   With drive through                                   stacking       
                                                           spaces per
                                                           window
                                                           No additional
                                                           spaces
                                                           provided that
   With automatic teller machine                        drive-through  
                                                           machines be
                                                           provided with
                                                           4 stacking
                                                           spaces each
                                                           3 spaces per
                                                           examination
Medical office - medical, dental clinic or laboratory      chair/table/   
                                                           room
                                                           depending on
                                                           use
Office - general, financial services, law, insurance,      1 space per
travel, design                                             300 square     
                                                           feet
Residential Uses
Accessory apartments                                       1 space per    
                                                           dwelling unit
                                                           1 space per
                                                           guest room;   No non-
Boarding or lodging house, including bed and breakfast     plus 2 for    guest
(homeowner must live on-premises)                          the resident  dining
                                                           owner or      permitted
                                                           manager
                                                           1 space per 5
                                                           residents;
Group home                                                 plus 1 space   
                                                           per employee
                                                           on largest
                                                           shift
                                                           1 per 4 beds;
Nursing home or congregate housing                         plus 1 per     
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest shift
Residential, multifamily                                                 
   Studio or 1 bedroom                                  1.5 spaces     
                                                           per unit
   2 bedroom                                            2 spaces per   
                                                           unit
   3 bedroom                                            2 spaces per   
                                                           unit
   4 bedroom+                                           2 spaces per   
                                                           unit
   For every 7 units                                    1 additional   
                                                           space
Residential, single-family                                 2 spaces per   
                                                           dwelling unit
Residential, two-family                                    2 spaces per   
                                                           dwelling unit
Senior housing/assisted living                             0.8 spaces     
                                                           per unit
Retail and Services
                                                           1 space per
Adult entertainment                                        200 square     
                                                           feet (net
                                                           floor area)
Assembly, reception or exhibit hall                        1 space per 4  
                                                           seats
                                                           1 space per
Adult bookstore*                                           250 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per 3
                                                           seats, plus 1
                                                           space for
                                                           every 25
                                                           square feet
Amphitheater                                               of open        
                                                           seating area;
                                                           plus 1 space
                                                           per employee
                                                           on the
                                                           largest shift
                                                           1 space per
Antique shop*                                              300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
Apparel shop/boutique                                      300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           20 spaces per
Athletic fields                                            field or       
                                                           court
                                                           2 space per
Automobile, truck or trailer rental                        employee on    
                                                           the largest
                                                           shift
                                                           1 space per
                                                           service bay;
Automobile and truck repair                                plus one       
                                                           space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest shift
                                                           1 space per
Automotive parts and accessories store                     300 square     
                                                           feet gross
                                                           floor area
                                                           1 space per
Bait sales                                                 500 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
Bakery (retail)                                            250 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
                                                           150 square
Banquet hall                                               feet of        
                                                           seating and
                                                           display area
                                                           1.5 spaces
Barber shop or beauty parlor                               per chair;     
                                                           plus 1 space
                                                           per employees
Billiard room                                              2.5 spaces     
                                                           per table
                                                           1 space per 3
Bingo parlor                                               seats based    
                                                           on design
                                                           capacity
                                                           1 space per
                                                           500 square
                                                           feet of
                                                           enclosed
                                                           sales area;
Boat or marine equipment sales                             plus 1 space   
                                                           per 2500
                                                           square feet
                                                           of open sales
                                                           area; plus 1
                                                           space per
                                                           employee
                                                           1 space per
Bookstore*                                                 300 square     
                                                           feet
Bowling alley                                              4 spaces per   
                                                           lane
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest
                                                           shift; plus 1
                                                           drying and 4
                                                           stacking
Car wash                                                   spaces per     
                                                           washing space
                                                           (washing
                                                           spaces shall
                                                           not be
                                                           counted
                                                           toward the
                                                           requirements)
                                                           1 space per
Check cashing facility                                     200 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
                                                           2.5 seats;
Coffee shop or refreshment stand                           and 1 space    
                                                           per employee
                                                           on largest
                                                           shift
   If no indoor seating                                 Minimum 10     
                                                           spaces
Convenience store                                                        
                                                           1 space per
   Without pumps                                        300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           See Gas
   With pumps                                           filling        
                                                           station
                                                           1 space per
Cellular phone store                                       200 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           Space to
                                                           accommodate
                                                           50% of the
Country club                                               active         
                                                           membership at
                                                           one space per
                                                           3 members
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee;
                                                           plus 1 space
Crematorium                                                per 4 seats    
                                                           in the chapel
                                                           (if
                                                           applicable)
                                                           1 space per
                                                           250 square
                                                           feet of
                                                           usable floor
                                                           area; plus 1
Dance, gymnastics, martial arts studios or similar         space per      
                                                           employee;
                                                           plus safe and
                                                           convenient
                                                           loading and
                                                           unloading of
                                                           attendees
                                                           1 space per
                                                           250 square
Dancing, aerobics or gymnastics studio or martial arts     feet of        
                                                           studio floor
                                                           area
                                                           1 space per
Delicatessen                                               250 square     
                                                           feet
Department store***                                                      
                                                           1 space per
   <50,000 square feet gross leasable area              350 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
                                                           300 square
   Between 50,001 - 100,000 square feet gross leasable  feet           
area                                                       Maximum: 1
                                                           space per 250
                                                           square feet
   Between 100,001 - 250,000 square feet gross leasable 1 space per
area                                                       350 square     
                                                           feet
   >250,000 square feet gross leasable area             1 space 400    
                                                           square feet
                                                           1 space per
                                                           vehicle at
Drive-in movie theater                                     maximum        
                                                           capacity plus
                                                           3 spaces
                                                           1 space per
Drug store*                                                250 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space 300
Dry cleaning establishment or laundry service              square feet    
                                                           of gross
                                                           floor area
                                                           1 space per
                                                           400 square
Electric appliance, radio, satellite dish or television    feet; plus 1  Repair is
sales or repair shop                                       space per     primary
                                                           employee on   operation
                                                           the largest
                                                           shift
                                                           1.25 spaces
                                                           per 1000
Exterminator                                               square feet    
                                                           of gloss
                                                           floor area
                                                           1 space per
Fitness center                                             300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
Flea market                                                300 square     
                                                           feet of
                                                           vendor area
                                                           1 space per
Flower shop*                                               300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per 2
                                                           employees;
Funeral home or mortuary                                   plus 1 space   
                                                           per 4 seats
                                                           in the chapel
                                                           1.5 spaces
                                                           per 1,000
Furniture store*                                           square feet    
                                                           of gross
                                                           floor area
                                                           1.5 spaces
Gas filling station                                        per fuel       
                                                           nozzle
                                                           1 space per
   With convenience store                               300 square     
                                                           feet of
                                                           enclosed area
   With repair                                          1 space per    
                                                           service bay
                                                           1 space per 2
Golf course                                                employees;     
                                                           plus 3 spaces
                                                           per hole
                                                           1 space per
                                                           tee; plus 1
Golf, driving range                                        space per      
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest shift
Golf, miniature                                            1 space per    
                                                           hole
                                                           1 space per
Guns store*                                                300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
Hardware or paint store*                                   400 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
Health spa                                                 300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee;
                                                           plus one
Highway maintenance garage                                 space for      
                                                           each company
                                                           vehicle
                                                           parked on the
                                                           premises
                                                           1 space per
                                                           room, plus 1
                                                           space per
                                                           employee on
Hotel or motel                                             largest        
                                                           shift, plus 1
                                                           space per 500
                                                           square feet
                                                           of meeting
                                                           space
                                                           1 space per 3
                                                           seats of
                                                           indoor
Ice cream parlor                                           seating; plus  
                                                           1 space per 5
                                                           seats of
                                                           outdoor
                                                           seating
                                                           1 space per 4
                                                           seats, plus 1
Indoor theater                                             per employee   
                                                           on largest
                                                           shift
                                                           1 space per
Jewelry store*                                             300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
Kennel                                                     300 square     
                                                           feet
Laundry agency (pick up)                                   1 space per    
                                                           employee
                                                           1 space per
Liquor store*                                              250 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
                                                           400 square
                                                           feet of
                                                           enclosed
                                                           sales area;
Machinery sales                                            plus 1 space   
                                                           per 2,500
                                                           square feet
                                                           of open sales
                                                           area; plus 1
                                                           space per
                                                           employee
                                                           1 space per
                                                           500 square
Manufactured housing or semi-tractor/trailer sales         feet; plus 1   
                                                           space per 20
                                                           units
                                                           displayed
                                                           1 space per
Meat market                                                300 square     
                                                           feet of
                                                           1 space per
                                                           seat capacity
Motor bus or light railroad commuter station               of the         
                                                           largest
                                                           vehicle
                                                           1 space per
                                                           500 square
                                                           feet of
                                                           enclosed
                                                           sales floor
                                                           area; plus 1
Motor vehicle sales                                        space per      
                                                           2,500 square
                                                           feet of open
                                                           sales area;
                                                           plus one
                                                           space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest shift
                                                           Plus 1 space
   With repair                                          per service    
                                                           bay
                                                           1 space per
Music store                                                300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
Nail salon                                                 300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
Newsdealer*                                                300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           2 space per
                                                           service bay;
Oil change station                                         plus one       
                                                           space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest shift
                                                           3 spaces per
                                                           doctor; plus
Optician or optical goods store                            one space per  
                                                           employee; if
                                                           no doctor on
                                                           premises
                                                           1 space per
Pet shop*                                                  300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
Photography studio                                         500 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
                                                           1,000 square
Plumbing or heating supply                                 feet of gross  
                                                           floor area;
                                                           plus 1 space
                                                           per employee
                                                           1 space per 4
Private club or lodge                                      persons at     
                                                           maximum
                                                           occupancy
                                                           1 space per 4
Private recreational development (indoor)                  persons at     
                                                           maximum
                                                           occupancy
Resale/used merchandise (other than antiques or flea       1 space per
market)                                                    400 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per 3
                                                           seats; plus 1
Restaurant                                                 space per      
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest shift
                                                           1 space per
                                                           2.5 seats;
Restaurant, fast food                                      and 1 space    
                                                           per 2
                                                           employees on
                                                           largest shift
                                                           Plus 7
   With drive-through                                   stacking       
                                                           spaces per
                                                           window
   If no indoor seating                                 10 spaces      
                                                           1 space per
Rifle range                                                firing         
                                                           position
                                                           1 space per 3
Self service laundry or self service dry cleaning          washing        
                                                           machines
                                                           1 spaces per
Shoe repair shop                                           400 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
Shoe store*                                                300 square     
                                                           feet
Shopping center***                                                       
                                                           3 spaces per
                                                           1,000 square
                                                           feet of gross
                                                           floor area
   < 100,000 square feet of gross leasable area         Maximum: 5     
                                                           spaces per
                                                           1,000 square
                                                           feet of gross
                                                           floor area
                                                           4 spaces per
                                                           1,000 square
                                                           feet of gross
                                                           floor area
   >100,000 square feet gross leasable area             Maximum: 5     
                                                           spaces per
                                                           1,000 square
                                                           feet of gross
                                                           floor area
                                                           4 spaces per
Skating rink (roller/ice)                                  1,000 square   
                                                           feet of
                                                           skating area
                                                           1 space per
Sporting goods store*                                      300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 spaces per
Stationary*                                                300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
                                                           250 square
                                                           feet up to
Supermarket                                                5000; then 1   
                                                           space per 300
                                                           square feet
                                                           up to 50,000
                                                           sf
                                                           1 space per
                                                           300 square
                                                           feet of
                                                           enclosed
                                                           space; 1
                                                           space per 75
                                                           square feet
                                                           of water
Swimming pool                                              surface of     
                                                           competition
                                                           pools; 1
                                                           space per 250
                                                           square feet
                                                           of water
                                                           surface for
                                                           non-
                                                           competition
                                                           pools
                                                           1 space per
                                                           75 square
                                                           feet for
Swimming pool (public)                                     recreational   
                                                           activity and
                                                           area devoted
                                                           to spectators
                                                           1 space per
Tailor and pressing shop                                   300 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           2 spaces per
Tanning salon or massage therapy business                  tanning bed    
                                                           or massage
                                                           table
Tavern or night club or bar                                1 space per 4  
                                                           seats
                                                           1 space per
Video store                                                200 square     
                                                           feet
                                                           1 space per
All other retail uses not specified herein*                300 square     
                                                           feet of gross
                                                           floor area
Wholesale, Warehousing and Industrial Uses
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest
Junk yard                                                  shift; plus 2  
                                                           spaces per
                                                           acre of
                                                           storage space
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest
                                                           shift; plus 1
Lumber yard                                                space per 500  
                                                           square feet
                                                           of enclosed
                                                           sales area
                                                           open to the
                                                           public
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
Manufacturing                                              the largest    
                                                           shift; plus 1
                                                           space per 10
                                                           employees
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest
Mineral extraction, borrow pit, topsoil removal and        shift; plus
storage areas                                              one space per  
                                                           vehicle used
                                                           in the
                                                           operation of
                                                           the warehouse
                                                           1 space per 2
                                                           employees;
                                                           plus 2 spaces
                                                           per 1,000
Printing, lithographing and publishing establishments      square feet    
                                                           of floor area
                                                           used for
                                                           offices or
                                                           open to the
                                                           public
                                                           1 space per
Recycling center - collection (public)                     employee;      
                                                           plus 1 space
                                                           per bin
                                                           1 space per
Recycling (sorting/distribution)                           employee on    
                                                           largest shift
                                                           4 spaces per
                                                           1,000 square
                                                           feet of floor
                                                           area up to
                                                           20,000 square
Research and development facilities                        feet; plus 2   
                                                           spaces per
                                                           1,000 square
                                                           feet of floor
                                                           area greater
                                                           than 20,000
                                                           square feet
                                                           3 spaces;
Self storage facility                                      plus 1 space   
                                                           for each 75
                                                           units
                                                           1 space per
Slaughter house                                            employee on    
                                                           largest shift
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest
                                                           shift; plus
Warehouse/distribution center                              one space per  
                                                           vehicle used
                                                           in the
                                                           operation of
                                                           the warehouse
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest
                                                           shift; plus 1
Wholesale establishment                                    space per 300  
                                                           square feet
                                                           of sales
                                                           floor open to
                                                           the public
                                                           1 space per
                                                           employee on
                                                           largest
All other wholesale, warehousing and industrial uses not   shift; plus
specified herein                                           one space per  
                                                           vehicle used
                                                           in the
                                                           operation of
                                                           the industry
*    If stand-alone store size exceeds 50,000 square feet, “department store (big
box)” standards apply
**    If use is located in the CB District, the minimum number of required spaces
shall be reduced by one-half
***   If the amount of parking exceeds the minimum requirement as shown, additional
landscaping will be required in accordance with subsection (F)(2)(c)
 
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009; Ord. 2017-12,
passed 9-11-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Additional semi-truck parking standards, see Title XV, §
8.1(D)(5)(a)
   Parking lot interior landscaping, see Title XV, §
7.8(J)(2)
§ 7.6  LOADING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Loading requirements.
      (1)   Loading berths required.  Adequate off-street loading berths and
areas shall be provided in accordance with the following table for any building
or structure which requires the receipt or distribution of materials or
merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles:
Table 7.5: Required Number of Loading Spaces
Use Description Floor Area in Square Feet Number of Loading Spaces Required
Table 7.5: Required Number of Loading Spaces
Use Description              Floor Area in Square Feet Number of Loading Spaces
                                                       Required
Manufacturing, distribution, 5,000 - 25,000            1
wholesaling, storage and     25,001 - 60,000           2
similar uses                 60,001 - 100,000          3
                             Each 50,000 above 100,000 1
Office buildings, hotels and 5,000 - 60,000            1
motels, retail sales,        60,001 - 100,000          2
hospitals, institutions and  Each 50,000 above 100,000 1
similar uses
 
      (2)   Location relative to structure and right-of-way.  Off-street
loading berths may be provided either within or outside of structures on the
property.
         (a)   There shall be no maneuvering within any street right-of-way. In
no case shall a loading berth be located in a manner as to require loading/
unloading vehicles to back into a public right-of-way or overhang adjacent
property.
         (b)   Space provided for use as any off-street loading berth shall not
be used to satisfy any off-street parking space requirements of §
7.5.
      (3)   Location.  All required off-street loading berths shall be located
on the same lot as the use to be served, and no portion of the vehicle shall
project into a street or alley. Off-street loading berths in all districts
except for the CB District:
         (a)   Shall not be located within 75 feet of the nearest point of
intersection of any two streets;
         (b)   Shall not be located in a required front yard or the area
between the front lot line and the front line of the principal building;
         (c)   Shall not be located in a minimum required side or rear yard or
landscape buffer; and
         (d)   Shall not be located in the side yard adjoining a residential
use or district.
      (4)   Size.  Each berth shall be as follows:
         (a)   For local pick-up and delivery trucks.  Twelve feet in width by
30 feet in length with a 45-foot maneuvering apron and a 12-foot height
clearance; and
         (b)   For over-the-road tractor-trailers.  Fourteen feet in width by
60 feet in length with a 60-foot maneuvering apron and a 15-foot height
clearance.
      (5)   Surfacing requirements.  All off-street loading berths shall be
paved with concrete or other appropriate material meeting the durability
requirements and as approved by the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Screening.  All loading berths on any lot abutting a residential
zoning district or separated by an alley from a residential zoning district or
adjacent to or in view from a public right-of-way shall be enclosed within a
building or sufficiently screened and landscaped to conceal the doors of the
loading berths and any vehicles that access the loading berths from view from
the residential zoning district or right-of-way. Screening may consist of:
         (a)   A wing wall that is incorporated into or is an extension of the
architecture; or
         (b)   Landscaping in accordance with Type D buffer as per
Table 7.9: Landscape Buffer Types in §
7.8. Landscaping must serve as an effective screen within no more than three-
years time.
   (B)   Semi-truck parking.  Semi-truck parking and/or semi-truck turn-around
areas shall be designated by the use of signs and pavement markings. These
areas shall be separated from parking and access areas used by automobiles or
pedestrian traffic. Public streets shall not be used for semi-truck parking,
standing or backing. The overnight parking of semi-trucks shall not occur
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. except in designated areas of
semi-truck travel centers (truck stops) and PBI or ID Zoning Districts.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 7.7  SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent.  The intent of this section is to encourage signage which is
compatible with and complements the architecture and scale of buildings and
eliminates potential hazards to motorists and pedestrians.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Sign permit.
         (a)   Permit.  Except where noted in this ordinance, the erection,
construction, enlargement, movement or conversion of all permanent and
temporary signs, banners, exterior graphic displays and sign structures shall
require a sign permit to be obtained from the Planning and Building Department
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
         (b)   Application.  An application for a sign permit shall be filed
with the Planning and Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied by any
information the Administrator determines is necessary to assure compliance with
this ordinance, including, but not limited to:
            (1)   Clear and legible drawings with descriptions showing the
location of the sign which is the subject of the permit;
            (2)   An indication of all existing and anticipated signs on the
property;
            (3)   A dimensioned drawing showing the size of the sign area and
the height of the sign;
            (4)   Description of sign materials and colors;
            (5)   Type of illumination; and
            (6)   Mounting details.
         (c)   Effect of sign permit issuance.  A sign permit issued under the
provisions of this section shall not be deemed to constitute permission or
authorization to maintain an unlawful sign nor shall it be deemed as a defense
in an action to remove an unlawful sign.
         (d)   Expiration.  A sign permit shall become null and void if work
has not been started within 30 days of the date the permit is issued or
completed within 180 days of the date the permit is issued.
      (2)   Determining sign area.  The area of a sign shall be determined by
multiplying the maximum vertical dimension of the copy by the maximum
horizontal dimension of the copy including the extreme limits of characters,
lettering or figures to the smallest circle, triangle or rectangle that can be
used to enclose the extreme limits of characters, lettering or figures.
Supporting members that bear no messages shall not be included when determining
the sign’s area.
      (3)   Determining the height of a sign.  The sign height shall be
measured from the elevation of the centerline of the nearest thoroughfare to
the highest point of the sign, and include any poles or other supports unless
otherwise specified in this article. In no case shall sign height be measured
from the top of any berm or other artificial grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2081.jpg]
 
      (4)   Double-faced signs.  For all signs permitted by this chapter, a
double-faced sign may be erected. Only the sign area of one of the two sides
shall be considered the sign area. However, the two sides shall be identical
and shall be placed back-to-back, and the maximum distance between the two
sides shall not exceed two feet at any point.
      (5)   Aggregate sign area.  The maximum aggregate sign area shall be
determined by adding together the sign area of each sign.
      (6)   Inspection.  Signs for which a permit is required may be inspected
periodically by the Administrator for compliance with this chapter.
      (7)   Removal of sign.  The Administrator may order the removal of any
sign erected or maintained in violation of this chapter, at the cost of the
property owner, consistent with the provisions of
Chapter 10.
      (8)   Maintenance.  All signs and their components shall be kept in good
repair and in safe, neat, clean, attractive and structurally sound condition.
Owners shall patch and paint damaged areas when signs are removed within 30
days.
      (9)   Abandoned sign structures.  A sign shall be removed by the owner or
lessee of the premises upon which the sign is located when the business which
it advertises is no longer conducted on the premises. If the owner or lessee
fails to remove it the Administrator shall give the owner ten days written
notice to remove it. Upon failure to comply with this notice, the Administrator
or his or her duly authorized representative may remove the sign at the cost of
the owner. The Administrator has the authority to attach a lien to the property
to recover costs incurred by the city.
      (10)   Illumination.  Signs may be internally or externally illuminated
unless prohibited elsewhere in this ordinance or through other commitments. All
illuminated signs must meet the exterior lighting standards of this section.
      (11)   Sign material.  Ground/monument signs shall be constructed of
wood, ornamental metal, stone, masonry or other permanent material.
      (12)   Enforcement.  The enforcement of violations of the provisions of
this chapter shall be as provided by
Chapter 10.
      (13)   Landscaping.  A minimum of two square feet of landscaping per one-
square foot of sign area shall be placed around the base of the sign. The
landscape area shall consisting of shrubs, groundcover and perennial plant
material. Turf shall not be used to satisfy this requirement.
      (14)   Signs and public safety.
         (a)   No sign or sign structure shall be placed on private or public
property without the written consent of the owner or agent thereof, except for
exempt signs.
         (b)   (1)   No sign or sign structure, other than official (INDOT,
county or city) highway signs, shall be placed upon, over or in any street or
highway right-of-way or any sidewalk, except where specifically allowed within
this section.
            (2)   Awning, suspended and projecting signs permitted in the CB
District shall require a permit and shall provide proof of insurance and
attachment details prepared by an licensed engineer. These signs shall be no
lower than nine feet above the finished grade.
         (c)   No sign or sign structure shall be erected at any location where
it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device.
         (d)   No sign or sign structure shall be located in a manner as to
materially impede the view of any street or highway intersection or the
intersection of a street or highway with a railroad grade crossing. See also §
7.2.
      (15)   Removal.
         (a)   Any legally established nonconforming sign shall be permitted
without alteration in size or location, unless movable or unattached, in
accordance with §
3.3 of this ordinance. If the sign is damaged or dilapidated to an extent of
more than 50% of its replacement cost at time of damage or repair, it shall not
be rebuilt, provided, however, that nothing herein shall prevent maintenance,
repainting or normal repair of legally established nonconforming signs.
         (b)   Whenever any movable or unattached sign is erected or maintained
in violation of this ordinance, the sign may be removed at the cost of the
owner of the sign by action of the Planning and Zoning Administrator after due
notice is given to the person in interest.
         (c)   Signs illegally located in the right-of-way may be removed
immediately by action of the Planning and Zoning Administrator without notice
and may be stored in a location for a period of seven days for retrieval by the
owner.
   (C)   Exempt signs.  The following signs shall not require a sign permit,
shall be subject to the conditions specified, and shall not be subject to any
other sign standards. These signs may not be illuminated, flashing or animated:
      (1)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, address numbers, names of occupants of premises or other
identification of premises not denoting commercial activity;
      (2)   Legal notices, identification, informational, warning, trespassing
or directional signs erected or required by governmental units;
      (3)   Memorial plaques, historical markers, integral decorative or
architectural features of buildings, except trademarks, moving parts or moving
lights;
      (4)   Sponsorship signs, such as those located inside little league ball
diamonds and at other athletic and community facilities, provided the signs
are, in the opinion of the Administrator, oriented to those visiting and using
the facility;
      (5)   Window signs that do not exceed 20% of the window area. Window
signs that exceed this size shall be subject to the additional requirements
herein and counted as part of aggregate sign area;
      (6)   Residential temporary signs, or yard cards, that do not exceed 12
square feet in area and are erected for less than three days;
      (7)   Sports spirit pennants that are less than two and one-half square
feet mounted on the facade of a dwelling indicating support of a middle, high
school or college student participating in organized school activities; and
      (8)   Flags, including flags of the United States, the state, the city
and any other flag adopted or sanctioned by an elected legislative body of
competent jurisdiction, provided that the flag shall not exceed 24 square feet
in area and shall not be flown from a pole the top of which is more than 30
feet in height.
      (9)   Political signs that do not exceed the maximum allowed sign area
for any sign in the zoning district(s) in which the political sign is located.
Political signs are subject to §§
7.7(B)(14)(b), (B)(14)(c) and (B)(14)(d), prohibiting their placement in public
rights-of-way or in locations where they may impede the view of traffic signs,
traffic signals, other traffic devices or intersections. In addition, political
signs may not be placed on any public or private property without consent of
the property owner.
   (D)   Incidental signs.  The following incidental signs shall be permitted
subject to the requirements of this section. These signs may be internally
illuminated but not flashing or animated. These signs shall conform to all the
requirements of the district in which they are located, with the exception of
subsections (D)(1) and (D)(2) below which may encroach into the required
setback distance, but not be located closer than 15 feet from any adjoining
property line. A sign permit is required.
      (1)   Wayfinding signs.  Signs directing and guiding traffic, pedestrian
or other control to specific noncommercial locations such as downtown or
historic districts, parks, large public arenas or similar destinations within
the city or county. They shall meet the State Department of Transportation
standards if located on a state-controlled road. Wayfinding signage shall not
incorporate corporate branding.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2083.jpg]
 
   Wayfinding Sign
      (2)   Directional sign.  Signs designating entrances or exits to or from
a parking or loading area on private property, limited to one sign for each
entrance or exit. These signs shall not exceed four square feet in sign area
each and shall be no higher than three feet above the grade of the adjacent
right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2085.jpg]
 
   Directional Sign
   (E)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Construction signs.
         (a)   Conforming nonresidential uses and multifamily complexes with at
least 15 dwelling units are permitted to display temporary signage as follows.
            (1)   The sign shall not be located in the right-of-way.
            (2)   One sign per street frontage of lot under construction,
demolition, remodeling or rebuilding, which sign announces the character of the
building enterprise, including names of architects, engineers or contractors or
financiers, for a maximum of two signs per lot.
            (3)   The maximum sign area shall not exceed 32 square feet.
         (b)   All construction signs shall be removed when a certificate of
occupancy is obtained.
      (2)   Real estate signs.  Real estate signs do not require a sign permit
and shall be subject to the following standards.
         (a)   Commercial.  Signs advertising the sale or lease of a commercial
property or the sale of a multifamily residence. In the Downtown Overlay
District, one real estate sign shall be allowed for each lot frontage, not to
exceed six square feet in area and four feet in height, indicating the sale,
rental or lease of the premises on which it is displayed. In all areas outside
the Downtown Overlay District, commercial signs advertising the sale or lease
of commercial property or the sale of multifamily properties are allowed one
real estate sign for each lot frontage not to exceed 15 square feet in area and
six feet in height indicating the sale, rental or lease of the premises on
which it is displayed. A sold sign may be attached to the real estate sign.
Both signs shall be removed within seven days from the time the premises were
sold, rented or leased.
         (b)   Individual homes.  One real estate sign shall be allowed for
each lot frontage, not to exceed six square feet in area and four and one-half
feet in height, indicating the sale, rental or lease of the premises on which
it is displayed. A sold sign may be attached to the real estate sign. Both
signs shall be removed within seven days from the time the premises were sold,
rented or leased.
         (c)   Subdivision advertising signs.  One temporary sign per entrance
with more than 200 feet of frontage is permitted to advertise the sale, rental
or lease of real property. The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet of surface
area, shall not be erected until the subdivision has been approved and
recorded, and shall be removed when 50% of the planned subdivision has been
occupied.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2087.jpg]
 
   Real Estate Signs
         (d)   Open house signage.
            (1)   Individual open house signs shall not exceed five square
feet.
            (2)   Signage must be placed with the owner’s permission.
            (3)   Signs shall be placed outside of the right-of-way and only at
corner locations.
            (4)   All open house signage shall be removed the same day that the
event ends.
      (3)   Temporary advertising/special events.
         (a)   Banners.
            (1)   The banner shall not be displayed without first obtaining a
temporary sign permit.
            (2)   The banner shall not exceed 24 square feet in area.
            (3)   The banner shall be affixed by all four corners to the
building (excluding the roof) where the use associated with the banner is
located.
            (4)   The banners shall not be permitted in the right-of-way.
            (5)   Signs shall not be placed on a property unless permission is
granted by the property owner.
            (6)   One banner shall be permitted per business per year. The
banner shall be permitted for a 30-day period and may be renewed one time for
an additional 30-day period within 365 consecutive days. In no case, shall
banners be erected for more than 60 days per year.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2089.jpg]
 
   Temporary Banner
         (b)   Pennants and balloons.  Retail businesses are permitted
additional signage, in the form of flag pennants and balloons, for special
events. The additional signage shall require a temporary sign permit per §
9.6. The signage shall be displayed for no more than ten consecutive days and
for no more than two special events during a one-year period.
      (4)   Garage sale/yard sale signs.  Garage sale/yard sale signs shall be
no more than six square feet in surface area and are no higher than three feet
above adjacent grade. Signs may be erected no more than three days prior to the
event and are to be removed within one day after the event. They do not require
a sign permit.
   (F)   Prohibited signs.  It shall be unlawful to erect and maintain in any
zoning district:
      (1)   Any sign which is not included under the types of signs permitted
in this ordinance or which does not conform to the provisions of this
ordinance;
      (2)   Any portable or movable sign or any sign which was designed to be
portable or movable, including any sign with attached or attachable wheels;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2091.jpg]
 
   Portable/Movable Sign
      (3)   Any sign or sign structure affixed to a roof top or known as a roof
top sign, which superstructure extends above the highest point of the roof;
      (4)   Inflatable signs or inflatable characters;
      (5)   Beacons;
      (6)   Banners that are not allowed under subsection (E) above of this
ordinance;
      (7)   Animated signs that utilize any motion picture, laser or visual
projection of images or copy in conjunction with any business or advertisement;
      (8)   A sign may not have exposed neon tube, bare bulb or flashing
illumination;
      (9)   Signs that emit audible sound, odor or visible matter;
      (10)   Signs that imitate emergency vehicles, including signs that may be
construed as a light of an emergency or road equipment vehicle;
      (11)   Signs that obstruct any door, fire escape, stairway or any opening
intended to provide entrance or exit for any structure;
      (12)   Signs placed on vehicles or trailers parked on public or private
property primarily for the purpose of displaying the sign. Prohibited signs do
not include those displayed on vehicles parked for the purpose of lawfully
making deliveries or random sales or service. Prohibited signs do not include
vehicles which are customarily used for transporting persons or properties, and
vehicles parked at a driver’s place of residence during non-business hours or
for incidental purposes;
      (13)   Posters, placards and other similar signs attached to light poles,
gas station canopy supports, gas station pumps, trees and elsewhere outdoors
that are not included as permitted temporary or permanent signs as described by
this article;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2093.jpg]
 
   Poster Sign
      (14)   No rotating beam, beacon rotating inanimate objects including
automotive vehicles (whether operative or inoperative) or flashing illumination
resembling any emergency lights shall be used in connection with any sign
display, nor shall any sign make use of the words “Stop,” “Slow,” “Caution,”
“Warning,” “Look,” “Danger” or any other word, phrase, symbol or character in a
manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic;
      (15)   No amplification of radio music or other audio-advertising shall
be permitted on the premises; and
      (16)   Corrugated cardboard yard cards of any size, on the property of
any use other than residential. Residential yard cards are exempt in accordance
with the conditions of subsection (C) above.
   (G)   Residential sign standards (SF, SF1, SF2, SF3, TR, MF, MH, CB and NB).
      (1)   Provisions.  The following provisions shall apply to residential
uses located within the SF, SF1, SF2, SF3, TR, MF and MH Districts and
residential uses within the CB and NB Districts. Signs in residential districts
shall be allowed only if:
         (a)   The sum of the area of all signs on the lot conforms with the
maximum permitted sign area as determined in this subsection;
         (b)   The size, location and number of signs on the lot conform with
the requirements of this subsection;
         (c)   Provisions for maintenance shall be made for permanent
residential subdivision identification signs; and
         (d)   Exempt signs in residential districts that do not require a
permit include political signs, real estate signs, yard cards and sports team
participants plaques.
      (2)   Subdivision entry.  Subdivision entry signs shall identify the
subdivision and enhance the character of the entrance.
         (a)   One double-sided or two single-sided sign structures identifying
a residential subdivision or multifamily development shall be permitted per
entrance.
         (b)   The maximum size sign area shall not exceed 32 square feet in
sign area.
         (c)   The sign structure shall not exceed a maximum height of six feet
measured from the adjacent ground level. In no case may mounding or other
alterations of the natural ground level be used as a point of reference for
measuring sign height.
         (d)   Internal illumination shall not be permitted for signs in
residential districts.
         (e)   The sign structure shall be set back a minimum of five feet from
the right-of-way and shall be located outside of the sight visibility triangle
per §
7.2. Entry signs placed in the right-of-way of a public street, such as in the
median of a boulevard, shall be prohibited unless approved by the City Street
Department and the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (f)   Signs for multifamily developments shall indicate only the name
and address of the building, development or use and the name and address of the
management thereof. These signs shall not include promotional information.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2095.jpg]
 
   Subdivision Entry Sign
      (3)   Home occupation.  Displays, signs and/or advertisements associated
with a home occupation shall be permitted. Sign area shall not exceed one-
square foot, and only one sign shall be allowed per residence. Signs shall not
be illuminated. Signs shall require a sign permit.
      (4)   Model home/temporary sales facility signs.  Wall, awning or ground
signs shall be permitted on the lot of the sales facility and limited to an
aggregate square footage not exceeding 32 square feet of sign area. See also §
7.11. In addition, individual model homes may have one sign not to exceed four
square feet. These signs shall be placed a minimum of ten feet from the right-
of-way and ten feet from adjacent property lines, and in a manner consistent
with the sight visibility standards of this ordinance.
   (H)   Nonresidential sign standards (CB, NB, PBC, PBO, PBI, ID and IN).
      (1)   General provisions.  The following provisions shall apply to all
signs located within the CB, NB, PBC, PBO, PBI, ID and IN Districts of the
city.
         (a)   Multiple frontages.  If a commercial use is located on a lot
with multiple frontages the primary frontage shall be determined by the highest
classification of the adjacent roadway. If adjacent roadways are equal in
designation, the primary frontage shall be the longest frontage.
         (b)   Size.  No individual sign may exceed the size limits for its
sign type as set forth in subsection (H)(2) below and
Table 7.6: Permitted Signs.
         (c)   Aggregate maximum area.  The sign area maximum represents an
aggregate amount of all signs listed below.
         (d)   Illumination.  Signs may be internally or externally
illuminated. Externally lit signs, lights or reflectors shall not extend more
than two feet from the face of the sign. Where a sign is illuminated by light
reflected upon it, direct rays of light shall not beam upon any part of
adjoining property.
         (e)   Setback.  The minimum setback for all nonresidential signs shall
be five feet from the right-of-way. This includes the leading edge of any sign
structure.
      (2)   Sign types.  The sign area, number and overall size of
nonresidential signs for uses permitted in nonresidential districts shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Monument/ground signs.
            (1)   Individual.  One monument/ground sign shall be permitted per
street frontage.
               a.   The ground sign area shall not exceed 32 square feet.
               b.   The maximum height shall be eight feet.
               c.   The sign area of an ground sign shall not count toward the
maximum sign area allowed per lot.
               d.   No ground sign may be located within 100 feet of another
ground sign.
            (2)   Multi-tenant shopping centers.  The sign area for a multi-
tenant development may exceed the maximum sign area by 50% for a maximum of 48
square feet if three or more tenants are displayed. Occupants/tenants within
the shopping center may not display other monument/ground signs. The height may
be increased to 12 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2097.jpg]
 
   Multi-Tenant Monument/Ground Sign
            (3)   Second entry.  Frontages greater than 300 feet and with a
second entry shall be permitted a secondary ground sign. The maximum area of a
secondary ground sign shall be 24 square feet and a maximum height of six feet.
In no case shall the total number of signs exceed two signs per frontage.
            (4)   Materials.  Sign structures shall be constructed of
decorative materials such as brick, stone or other masonry, wood or metal.
            (5)   Landscaping.  Landscaping shall be as stated in §
7.8 of this chapter.
            (6)   Location.  Monument/ground signs, including any part of the
sign structure, shall be located no closer that five feet from the right-of-
way.
         (b)   Pole signs (freestanding).  Pole signs shall be allowed by
conditional use in the PBC, PBI and ID Districts under the following
conditions:
            (1)   Pole signs shall only be located within 1,000 feet of an
interstate interchange.
            (2)   Pole-mounted signs shall not exceed 60 feet in height.
            (3)   The maximum sign area shall not exceed 200 square feet per
side.
         (c)   Electronic message board sign.  A changing display/message
composed of a series of lights incorporated with freestanding or wall signage
that may be changed through electronic means of no less than 20 seconds. Sign
area shall not exceed 25% of the aggregate allowable sign area. These signs
shall be permitted in association with another allowable sign type for district
in question.
         (d)   Off-premise signs.  Off-premise shall be permitted only by
conditional use, and only in the ID District. Off-premise signs shall be
located within 1,000 feet of an interstate interchange. Off-premise signs shall
not exceed 40 feet in height and 300 square feet in sign area.
         (e)   Wall signs.
            (1)   One wall sign shall be permitted per tenant per frontage. The
sign area shall not exceed two square feet per one linear foot of building with
the exception of the CB District.
            (2)   Wall-mounted sign or sign structures, excluding projecting
signs, shall not extend more than 12 inches horizontally from the wall.
            (3)   The maximum sign area shall not exceed 300 square feet. Refer
to subsection (H)(3) below for CB District maximum.
            (4)   Secondary frontage sign shall not exceed 50 square feet.
            (5)   Wall signs shall not occupy more than 30% of the wall surface
on which it is mounted to be in scale with the facade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2099.jpg]
 
   Wall Sign
         (f)   Marquee and canopy signs.  Marquee and signs may project from
the structure surface a maximum of four feet and may extend vertically to the
roof line or up 18 feet, whichever is lower.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2101.jpg]
 
   Marquee Sign
         (g)   Awning signs.  Signs located on awnings shall be:
            (1)   Affixed flat to or painted upon the surface of opaque vinyl
or canvas awnings;
            (2)   Shall not extend vertically or horizontally beyond the limits
of the awning;
            (3)   Shall not cover more than 50% of the principal face of the
awning; and
            (4)   If internally lit, only the sign area (copy) shall be
illuminated.
         (h)   Projecting signs.  One projecting sign attached to the face of a
structure shall be permitted for each qualifying street frontage. The sign area
shall not exceed 16 square feet per face. In no case shall the sign structure
extend more than four feet from or beyond its supporting building. No
projecting sign shall be at its lowest point less than nine feet above grade
level. Proof of insurance may be required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2103.jpg]
 
   Projecting Sign
         (i)   Off-site directional signs.  Off-site directional signage for a
permitted business use may be permitted by the Plan Commission in any business
district, subject to a documentation of need on the part of the business owner.
These signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in area and shall display only the
name of the use and directional information.
         (j)   Suspended signs.  Suspended signs shall not be greater than four
square feet in area and may display only the name and/or property number of the
use. Where a suspended sign hangs over a sidewalk or other pedestrian path,
there shall remain a vertical clearance of nine feet. Proof of insurance may be
required.
         (k)   Window signs.  Window signs displayed on the ground floor shall
not exceed 20% of the ground floor window area. Window signs displayed above
the first floor shall be limited to one sign per frontage, not to exceed 25% of
the floor’s window area.
         (l)   Flags.  Any flag not considered an exempt sign by subsection (C)
(8) above shall be subject to regulation as the closest applicable sign type as
determined by the Administrator.
         (m)   Ornamental banners.  Banners of cloth, canvas or flexible
plastic affixed to light standards shall be permitted along streets within the
Downtown or Thoroughfare Overlay Districts. The banners shall not exceed 12
square feet in area. The banners should be considered decorative in design
utilizing a variety of images or colors of an ornamental nature that displays
no on-premise or off-premise commercial advertising copy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2105.jpg]
 
   Ornamental Banner
         (n)   Post signs.  Post signs, as defined by this ordinance, are
encouraged in the CB and NB zoning districts for businesses located adjacent to
residential property, or within a converted residential building. Signs shall
be a maximum of six feet in height and shall have a sign area of no more than
20 square feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2107.jpg]
 
   Post Signs
         (o)   Signs for gas/service stations.  Due to the differing
characteristics of filling/gas station sign requirements, the following sign
provisions shall apply for filling stations.
            (1)   The lot shall be permitted the maximum signage for all
structures as stated for commercial businesses in nonresidential districts. The
total signage for the canopy, convenience store, car wash or other accessory or
incidental uses including signs on pumps, canopy supports, pump handles and the
like, shall not exceed that permitted for the district and shall be based on
the linear feet of the building, not canopy.
            (2)   Signs such as “self serve,” “full serve” and pump numbers
shall be permitted, provided the letters and numbers are no larger than six
inches in height.
            (3)   Filling stations shall be permitted one set of gasoline
prices (one price per fuel product) with letters and numbers no greater than 18
inches in height, visible from each direction of traffic from each street
frontage.
      (3)   Central Business District (CB).  Due to the unique character of the
CB District, the following additional provisions shall apply to signs.
Additional sign standards for the CB District may be found in §
6.3 of this ordinance. Where these regulations are in conflict with other sign
standards, the provisions of this subsection shall apply.
         (a)   Each sign shall be so designed as to match and/or complement the
building style of the use to which it is accessory. Varied sign types are
encouraged.
         (b)   Only the sign types set forth in this subsection (H)(3) and
Table 7.6: Permitted Signs shall be permitted in the CB District. The following
development standards shall apply to these signs.
         (c)   Aggregate sign area maximums (based on building frontage) shall
not exceed 150 square feet. Individual sign maximums are as stated below:
 
Signage/ratio                     Maximum Sign Area
Wall sign only/1 lf.:1.5 sf       100 sq. ft.
Projecting sign only              16 sq. ft. per face
Awning/1 lf.:1.5 sf               50 sq. ft.
Combination of signs/1.5 lf.:1 sf 50 sq. ft. (bonus)
Post sign                         20 sq. ft. per face
 
         (d)   Sign area calculations for CB District uses.
            (1)   Wall signs.  Sign area shall be one and one-half square feet
per one-linear foot of the structure.
               a.   Maximum permitted wall sign area shall not exceed 100
square feet.
               b.   Wall signs on the secondary frontage shall not exceed 50
square feet.
               c.   Wall signs shall not cover more than 50% of the wall
surface on which they are mounted.
            (2)   Post signs.  Post signs are encouraged in the CB and NB
Districts and should be appropriately scaled. The maximum sign area shall be 20
square feet per side.
            (3)   Window signs.  Window signs shall not cover more than 20% of
any window.
            (4)   Sandwich /“A” frame.  Each building shall be permitted one
sandwich board which will not be counted toward aggregate sign area. In a
multi-tenant building, all tenants shall share the sign. The sign board, “A”
frame or sandwich board shall not exceed three and one-half feet in height, two
feet in width, or six square feet in area. The sign may be placed on a public
sidewalk, provided it meets the following regulations.
               a.   The tenant shall be responsible for the placement and
maintenance of the signs.
               b.   The sign shall not impede pedestrian traffic. A minimum
sidewalk clearance of 42 inches shall be maintained and shall be approved by
the Board of Public Works and Safety.
               c.   The sign board shall be used only during business hours and
must be removed from the public sidewalk and stored indoors when the business
is not open for business.
               d.   Each sign must be located within ten feet of the main
entrance of the business for which it is established.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2109.jpg]
 
   Sandwich/“A” Frame Sign
            (5)   Awning signs.  Awning signs are encouraged and shall be as
specified in subsection (H)(2) above.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2111.jpg]
 
   Awning Signs
            (6)   Projecting signs.  Projecting signs shall be permitted in the
CB District and shall be as specified in subsection (H)(2) above.
            (7)   Marquee.  Refer to subsection (H)(2) above.
            (8)   Secondary entrances.  Signs for secondary entrances from rear
parking lots shall be permitted. Maximum sign area shall be six square feet.
            (9)   Lighting and animation.  Signs in the CB District may not be
animated, flashing or internally lit. Externally lit signs are permitted,
provided, however, light reflectors shall not extend more than two feet from
the face of the sign, and direct rays of light shall not beam upon any part of
adjoining property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2113.jpg]
 
   Externally Illuminated Sign Using Gooseneck Lamps
            (10)   Painted signs.  Painted signs may be permitted as part of an
artistic concept upon review and approval by the Plan Commission.
         (e)   Residential uses located within the CB district shall be subject
to the regulations for residential uses within subsection (G) above.
Table 7.6: Permitted Signs
All signs require a Zoning District
permit              All signs require a permit
P = Permitted       Residenti al (SFs, CB/DT - OL NB/CO - OL PBC PBO IN PBI ID
C = Conditional use TR, MF, MH)
Table 7.6: Permitted Signs
                       Zoning District
All signs require a    All signs require a permit
permit                 Residenti
P = Permitted          al (SFs,  CB/DT -  NB/CO -  PBC      PBO      IN       PBI      ID
C = Conditional use    TR, MF,   OL       OL
                       MH)
                                 1.5 ft.  1.5 ft.  2 ft.    2 ft.    2 ft.    2 ft.    2 ft.
Building frontage/wall Subdivi-  per 1    per 1    per 1    per 1    per 1    per 1    per 1
sign size ratio (the   sion      linear   linear   linear   linear   linear   linear   linear
total sign area        entry     foot of  foot of  foot of  foot of  foot of  foot of  foot of
permitted per use)               building building building building building building building
                                 frontage frontage frontage frontage frontage frontage frontage
Aggregate sign area -  32 sq.    150 sq.  150 sq.  300 sq.  300 sq.  300 sq.  300 sq.  300 sq.
maximum*               ft.       ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.
Step 2: Identify Permitted Sign Types
Awning, marquee and              P                 P                 P
canopy sign
Changeable copy sign                      C        C                 C
Ground/monume nt sign  P (1 per  P/20 sq. P        P        P        P        P        P
                       entry)    ft.
Home occupation        P         P        P        P
Off-premise sign                                                                       C
(billboard)
Pole sign (within
1,000 ft. of an                                    C                          C        C
interstate
interchange)
Projecting or
suspended sign                   P        P        P        P        P        P        P
(limited to 1 per
business use)
Post                             P        P        P        P        P        P        P
Sandwich/“A” frame           P        P        P
sign
Multi-tenant ground                       P        P        P        P        P        P
sign
Temporary sign         C         C        C        C        C        C        C        C
Electronic message               C        C        P        P        P        P
board - LED
Wall sign**                      P        C**      P        P        P        P        P
Window sign                      P        p        P        P        P        P        P
Gas/service station -            C        C        P        P                 P        P
as per 7.7(H)(2)(n)
Step 3: Review the General Sign Standards
Maximum wall sign size           100 sq.  100 sq.  300 sq.  300 sq.  300 sq.  300 sq.  300 sq.
                                 ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.
Maximum projecting               16 sq.   16 sq.   16 sq.   16 sq.   16 sq.   16 sq.   16 sq.
sign size                        ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.      ft.
Maximum ground/monume  6 ft.     5 ft.    8 ft.    8 ft.    8 ft.    8 ft.    8 ft.    8 ft.
nt sign height
Maximum freestanding/                                                         200 sq.  200 sq.
pol e sign area                                                               ft. per  ft. per
                                                                              side     side
Maximum freestanding/                              12 ft.                     60 ft.   60 ft.
pol e sign height
Maximum multi-tenant
sign area and height                               + 50%    + 50%    + 50%    + 50%    + 50%
bonus increase
                                                   20%
                                                   ground
Maximum window sign              20%      20%      floor    20%      20%      20%      20%
area coverage                                      25%
                                                   upper
                                                   floor
* Aggregate sign area - the total area from all sign types on the premises
** Wall signs in the Neighborhood Business District adjacent to residential uses are subject to
additional review
 
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-13, passed 12-8-2008; Ord. 2008-07,
passed 7-28-2008; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009; Ord. 2014-06, passed 4-8-
2014)
Cross-reference:
   Additional sign standards within the Thoroughfare Overlay District, see
Title XV, §
6.1(L)(7)
   Enforcement and Penalties, see Title XV,
Chapter 10
§ 7.8  LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Intent.  The intent of this section is to establish minimum standards
for the provision, installation and maintenance of landscaped areas to:
      (1)   Improve the overall aesthetics and enhance the appearance of the
city;
      (2)   Increase the compatibility of development with adjacent development
and the natural environment;
      (3)   Provide physical and psychological benefits to citizens;
      (4)   Improve environmental quality by reducing noise, glare, stormwater
run-off and heat buildup; and
      (5)   Protect and enhance property values.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Applicability.  This section shall apply to all public, private and
institutional development, except that previously approved development need not
comply (§
1.5 Transition Rules) unless new site development approval is being sought.
      (2)   Compliance.  All development requiring a development plan or final
detailed plan shall submit a detailed landscape plan as part of the
construction set. A conceptual landscaping plan shall accompany concept plans,
preliminary plans and primary plats.
      (3)   Visibility.  Where the rigid enforcement of these standards creates
a conflict with the site visibility triangle (§
7.2), the site visibility triangle shall take precedence, and the landscape
requirements may be relocated or reduced to the extent necessary to alleviate
the conflict upon approval of the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Preservation of existing features.  Existing trees and shrubs shall
be preserved wherever feasible.
         (a)   When existing healthy trees or significant natural landscape
features impede strict compliance with the standards, the submittal of an
alternative landscape plan which incorporates the existing features into the
overall site design is encouraged.
         (b)   Existing trees may be used to fulfill tree planting requirements
if the trees are in a healthy and growing condition and not included in
Table 7.18: Non-Qualifying Trees. The Planning and Zoning Administrator may
approve existing trees which are not included on the plant lists.
         (c)   Existing trees which fulfill tree planting requirements shall be
protected from construction activities through the use of construction fences,
barricades or other applicable methods during site preparation and
construction. Protection measures shall be placed outside of the drip line of
the plant material to be retained. These barricades shall remain in place
during construction, and no vehicle, machinery, tools, chemicals, construction
materials or temporary soil deposits may be permitted within the barriers, nor
may any notice or other object be nailed or stapled to protected trees. This
information shall also be shown on the site grading and demolition plans.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2117.jpg]
 
   Construction is Not Permitted Within the Drip Line
         (d)   A minimum of 75% of the protected area shall be maintained as
permanent permeable landscape area at grades existing prior to site
development.
         (e)   Tree wells, tree walls or specialized fill and pavement designs
shall be required in cut and fill situations and shall be fully detailed on the
landscape plan.
   (C)   Content of landscape plan.  When required, a landscape plan shall
conform to the following standards.
      (1)   A landscape plan is required for each proposed development. The
landscape plan may be prepared by a landscape professional or nurseryman
experienced in landscape design and the installation and care of plant
materials, but shall be sealed by a licensed landscape architect.
      (2)   All landscape plans submitted for approval as a component of a
required development plan shall be prepared to scale on 24-inch by 36-inch
sheets and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, parking lots and drives, roadways and right-of-way, sidewalks,
refuse disposal areas, utility lines and easements, freestanding structural
features, signs and other landscape improvements, such as earth berms, walls,
fences, screens and paved areas;
         (b)   The name and address of the owner, developer and who prepared
the plan, the date the plan was prepared, scale and north arrow;
         (c)   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and
common, of all proposed planting materials;
         (d)   The location, size and common name of existing trees and
individual shrubs, areas of dense trees or shrubs and other natural features,
indicating which are to be preserved and which are to be removed;
         (e)   The location of barriers to be placed at or beyond the drip line
of any trees to be preserved, and the type of material to be used for the
barrier;
         (f)   Details indicating specific grading measures or other protective
devices where trees are to be preserved in areas of cut and fill; and
         (g)   Planting and installation details as necessary to ensure
conformance with all required standards.
   (D)   Installation.
      (1)   Plant materials shall conform to the requirements described in the
latest edition of the American Standard for Nursery Stock, which is published
by the American Association of Nurserymen. Plants shall be nursery grown.
      (2)   Plants shall conform to the measurements specified below.
         (a)   Caliper measurements shall be taken six inches above grade for
trees under four inches in diameter and 12 inches above grade for trees four
inches or larger in diameter.
         (b)   Minimum branching height for all shade trees shall be four feet.
         (c)   Minimum size for shade trees shall be two and one-half inches in
caliper.
         (d)   Minimum size for ornamental trees shall be one and one-half
inches in caliper.
         (e)   Minimum size for evergreen trees shall be six-feet high.
         (f)   The minimum size for required screening shrubs is 24 inches.
Species selected shall attain the required minimum mature height of 36 inches
within two years.
         (g)   The Plan Commission may impose a condition at the time of site
or development plan approval, that plants be larger at the time of
installation.
   (E)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Generally.  Trees, vegetation, irrigation systems, fences, walls
and other landscape elements are considered elements of a project in the same
manner as parking and other site details.
      (2)   Maintenance requirements.  The owner of the property shall be
responsible for the continuous proper maintenance of all landscaping materials,
and shall keep them free from refuse and debris and in good repair at all
times.
         (a)   Replacing landscaping materials.  All plant material which dies
shall be replaced with plant material of the required size within 30 days of
the plant material’s death. This period may be extended if weather conditions
inhibit installation of new plant materials.
         (b)   Trimming plant material.
            (1)   Landscape materials are intended to grow, spread and mature
over time. Landscaping materials used to fulfill requirements of this chapter
may not be pruned or otherwise treated so as to reduce overall height or level
of opacity.
            (2)   Pruning, limbing-up, topping and other inhibiting measures
including removal may only be practiced to ensure the public safety or to
preserve the relative health of the material involved (e.g., parking lot screen
plantings shall not be lower than 36 inches three years past installation).
            (3)   Where a continuous solid screen is required, the frequency of
the planting shall accomplish the formation of a solid visual screen within
three years of the date of planting.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2119.jpg]
 
   Trimming of Plant Materials Intended for Screening or Buffering Is
Discouraged
   (F)   Approved plant materials.
      (1)   
Tables 7.11 through
7.17 contains approved trees, shrubs and ground cover to be used to meet the
landscaping and buffering requirements of this ordinance. Species native to the
state are encouraged. The lists are not inclusive of all available plant
material. Unlisted plant material may count toward requirements upon review and
approval by the Planning and Zoning Administrator or his or her designee.
      (2)   The tables of plant materials included in this ordinance are
classified by type. Trees are grouped into three categories: shade trees,
ornamental trees and evergreens. Shrubs are grouped by height: small shrubs (<
three feet), medium shrubs (three to six feet) and large shrubs (> six feet).
Plant materials not listed on the tables will be assigned a classification
based on height, spread and/or crown at maturity, using the best available
resources to determine mature characteristics.
         (a)   Trees proposed for streets, parking lots and similar shall be
broadleaf, deciduous species as listed in
Tables 7.11 through
7.13.
         (b)   Trees proposed to meet landscaped buffer/screen requirements
shall include evergreens and may be from either
Table 7.11: Trees for Planting on Streets, Highways and Parking Lots (generally
with high canopies, shade producing, hardy) or
Table 7.12: Trees for Planting on Streets and Highways that minimize conflict
with overhead utilities in this section.
         (c)   Shrubs are divided by size to suit their particular function and
may come from
Tables 7.14 through
7.16 of this section.
         (d)   Grasses used in designated common areas or usable open spaces
should be native plantings and cool season grasses to limit the necessity for
pesticides, fertilizers or other chemicals, and to reduce mowing frequency.
      (3)   For design flexibility, plant substitutions may be made on the
following basis upon approval by the Planning and Zoning Administrator, unless
otherwise noted:
         (a)   One ornamental tree equals one evergreen tree;
         (b)   One large shrub equals two medium shrubs or four small shrubs;
and
         (c)   One medium shrub equals two small shrubs.
      (4)   Earthen berms and/or opaque fences or walls may be used in
combination with the plant materials specified above, provided they meet the
following requirements.
         (a)   Earthen berms shall have a maximum slope of three to one, shall
be a minimum of three feet and a maximum of six feet in height, and must be
entirely vegetated with lawn or ground cover within two years of the date of
planting.
         (b)   Opaque fences or walls shall be constructed of wood, brick,
masonry or other material approved by the Administrator.
      (5)   Non-qualifying plant material. In no instance shall any tree listed
in
Table 7.18: Non-Qualifying Trees be used to meet any landscaping requirements
of this ordinance.
   (G)   Utility easement conflicts.  Plant material shall be located in areas
in areas exclusive of drainage and utility easements and overhead utilities.
Plant material shall not be placed in the road/street right-of-way without
permission from the City Street Department or INDOT.
   (H)   Completion.  A final certificate of occupancy shall not be issued
until all landscaping shown on the landscape plan has been installed. A
temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for the property for a period
of up to six months as weather conditions permit landscape installation,
provided that the developer shall submit a financial guarantee in the amount of
125% of the installed cost of landscaping when planting has to be delayed.
   (I)   Enforcement.  Failure to implement the approved landscape plan,
including preservation of existing features, or to maintain the landscaping in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall be a violation of this
ordinance subject to the penalties outlined in
Chapter 10.
   (J)   Parking.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   (1)   All landscape areas shall be separated from vehicular use
areas by concrete curbing. Roll curbs may not be used for this separation if
within 15 feet of a pedestrian use area.
            (2)   A partial curb separation will be allowed if landscaping is
intended to filter stormwater as part of approved innovative stormwater
drainage solutions (best management practices).
         (b)   All landscaped areas at the front line of off-street parking
spaces shall be protected from encroachment or intrusion of vehicles through
the use of concrete wheel stops. Wheel stops shall have a minimum height of six
inches above the finish surface of the parking area, be properly anchored and
continuously maintained in good condition. Wheel stops shall not be placed in
locations of anticipated intense pedestrian traffic. As an alternative, curbing
can be extended to serve the same purpose, if approved by the Administrator.
Wheel stops constructed of plastic are prohibited.
         (c)   Plant materials required for landscaping and screening may be
arranged and clustered throughout the site for uses or for areas along a lot’s
perimeter where a continuous screen is not required.
      (2)   Parking lot interior landscaping.  A minimum of 5% of the gross
area of the interior vehicular use area of a parking lot shall be landscaped.
Required perimeter parking lot landscaping and/or buffering shall not be
included toward satisfying this requirement.
         (a)   For parking lots with 30 or more parking spaces, if the amount
of parking provided exceeds the required minimum by more than 10%, an
additional 5% of interior landscaping shall be required. Some of the
landscaping requirements for excess parking may be waived if either pervious
pavement or landscape islands that function as swales and provide stormwater
filtration are used.
         (b)   Landscaped areas should be evenly distributed throughout the
parking lot in the form of landscaped islands in order to reduce the visual
impact of long rows of parked cars. Shade trees shall be spaced a maximum of
100 feet apart in the interior vehicular use area, with the intent to equally
distribute the trees throughout the area.
         (c)   One hundred percent of the landscaping area shall be planted
with living ground cover.
         (d)   Appropriate ground cover may include shade trees, ornamental
trees, shrubbery, hedges and grasses. However, at least one shade tree shall be
provided for every 240 square feet of required interior landscaped area. See
subsection(F) above for suitable plant types.
      (3)   Parking lot perimeter landscaping.  All on- or off-street parking
regulated by this section shall have a perimeter landscaped area at least five
feet wide. This perimeter landscaping shall extend the full perimeter of the
parking lot. Development within the Thoroughfare and Interstate Overlay
Districts require a wider buffer as per
Chapter 6.
         (a)   One hundred percent of the landscaping area shall be planted
with living ground cover.
         (b)   A Type C buffer shall be required on the perimeter or parking
areas adjacent to public or private streets or residential districts or uses.
Where there are existing deciduous or evergreen trees located in the right-of-
way adjacent to the parking area or within the corridor buffer, these trees may
be used to satisfy the planting requirement. When determining the number of
trees required, fractions shall be rounded up to the next higher whole number.
See subsection (F) above for suitable plant types.
         (c)   An exception may be made for car or other large vehicle sales
where uninterrupted views of merchandise are needed. In this case, the plant
material required per 100 linear feet shall be four shade trees and nine
shrubs. All non-merchandise parking areas, including, but not limited to,
customer and employee parking shall be subject to the regular parking lot
perimeter landscaping requirements.
   (K)   Streets.
      (1)   Residential streets.
         (a)   One canopy tree shall be required per 45 linear feet. Refer to
Tables 7.11 and
7.12 for suitable tree types.
         (b)   Street trees shall be located in a planting strip between the
street and the sidewalk. If this is not possible due to lack of right-of-way,
narrow existing planting strip or other reason as deemed appropriate by the
Administrator, street trees shall be planted at the back of sidewalk but no
greater than ten feet from the right-of-way.
         (c)   To minimize conflicts with overhead and underground utilities,
street trees where an infrastructure exists shall come from
Table 7.12: Trees for Planting on Streets and Highways that Minimize Conflict
With Overhead Utilities which includes trees with non-invasive root structures
and trees of appropriate height. In addition, root barriers should be utilized
to shield infrastructure from tree roots.
      (2)   Nonresidential streets.  This section applies to all commercial,
institutional, industrial or other nonresidential land uses.
         (a)   Corridor buffer.  The streetscape shall be landscaped with the
Type B buffer. Required parking lot perimeter landscaping may be included
within the Type B buffer if the parking lot is adjacent to the required
streetscape buffer.
         (b)   Tree locations.  All required trees may be located in clusters
or dispersed throughout the yard.
         (c)   Lot plantings.  Additional planting shall be required on lots
according to
Table 7.7: Lot Planting Requirements. For the purposes of this section, the
yard shall mean all areas of the property not covered with structures, parking
areas or other hard surfaces. Other landscape areas required by this chapter
and required buffer yards shall not be included in the calculation of yard
area.
 
Table 7.7: Lot Planting Requirements
For this land use type.....     ..1 broadleaf/deciduous tree or evergreen
                                conifer shall be required for every....
Multiple family residential and 1,000 square feet of yard area
manufactured home park
Commercial                      1,000 square feet of yard area
Institutional                   1,000 square feet of yard area
Industrial                      1,000 square feet of yard area
 
   (L)   Residential subdivision landscaping.
      (1)   Landscaping.  Landscaping as stated below shall be required for all
single-family, multifamily and manufactured home park subdivision development
prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. Extensions of up to 120
days may be granted to take advantage of optimal planting conditions.
Individually or custom constructed residences shall provide landscaping within
180 days after the certificate of occupancy is issued.
      (2)   Subdivision perimeter landscaping.
         (a)   Perimeter plant material.  Perimeter plant material shall be
provided on the perimeter of subdivision development when adjacent to a public
or private street as follows:
            (1)   A 20-foot wide landscaping area adjacent to the road or
right-of-way. The landscaping shall be located in an area designated as “common
area.” All attempts should be made to avoid conflicts with drainage and utility
easements that would prevent the installation of landscape materials in
accordance with the ordinance.
            (2)   Trees shall be provided at a minimum rate of six trees per
100 linear feet of perimeter planting. Perimeter plantings shall be a roughly
equal mix of deciduous canopy trees and evergreen trees.
            (3)   Shrubs shall be provided at a minimum rate of ten per 100
linear feet of perimeter planting.
            (4)   The required number of trees and shrubs shall be prorated and
rounded up to the nearest whole number for every foot over the initial 100
feet.
            (5)   It is suggested that the required trees and shrubs be planted
in clusters or irregular patterns; and shall be combined with fences, walls or
mounds.
         (b)   Perimeter fences/walls/mounds.  One of the following landscaping
options shall be required in addition to the plant material.
            (1)   Decorative perimeter fences/walls shall be combined with
plant material and shall be constructed of masonry, stone, wood or decorative
metal. Fences/walls constructed of synthetic materials that simulate natural
materials will also be considered. Fences/walls shall be at least 36 inches in
height, but not over 72 inches in height. Fencing/walls may only be provided by
the developer and only located in the area designated as “
            (2)   Mounds shall be combined with plant material, as described
above, and may include fencing. Mounds shall be located in an area designated
as “common area” or “landscape easement.” Mounds shall be a minimum of six feet
in height. Maximum side slope shall not exceed a three to one ratio.
Engineering design requirements shall determine the setback from the right-of-
way line of a public or private street and from the property line of an
adjoining property. Continuous mounds (levee look) are not permitted.
      (3)   Individual residential lots.  The minimum landscape package for
front and side yards shall be consistent with the table at below and the
following:
         (a)   The minimum number of shrubs required is a total for the side
and front yard combined, not for each yard individually.
         (b)   Lots that have existing trees in the front yard that meet the
required minimum shall not be required to plant additional trees. In order for
the existing trees to qualify as an existing tree, it must be a minimum size of
two-inch caliper measured six inches above the existing ground elevation at the
base of the tree and be part of the finish landscape package upon completion of
the residence and the final lot grading.
         (c)   In addition to the above requirements, landscape packages for
corner lots shall include a street side yard (which shall be defined as the
yard fronting the street on the side of the house that does not face the
street) planting of one evergreen tree and eight shrubs. The street side yard
shall be sodded or covered with other living loam substitute for all
developments designated SF1, SF2, SF3, TR and NB Districts.
         (d)   All trees shall be planted so that upon maturation the branches
and limbs shall not interfere with the adjacent property use. Any tree becoming
a nuisance shall be trimmed or cut back to eliminate the nuisance by the
property owner.
         (e)   Plant material shall be placed out of the sight visibility
triangle (§
7.2). There should be a clear visibility zone between 36 inches and eight feet
maintained by the property owner.
 
Table 7.8: Residential Lot Landscaping Requirements
Zoning District Number of Trees Minimum Number of Shrubs Front Yard Sod
SF              3               8                        no
SF1, SF2, SF3   2               8                        yes
TR, NB          1               8                        yes
 
   (M)   Retention pond landscaping.
      (1)   Shrubs and emergent vegetation are encouraged to be planted on pond
perimeters. These plants may be exempt from minimum required plant sizes set
forth in subsection (D) above.
      (2)   The use of this plant material is more desirable than non-native
manicured turf in order to provide color, filter runoff, limit waterfowl and
improve water quality.
         (a)   Choose plant material that is native to the state.
         (b)   Pond edge seed mixes are available from local suppliers. Pond
edge landscaping may also be established from seed.
         (c)   Maintenance shall be consistent as it may take up to three years
to mature.
   (N)   Sign landscaping.  Landscaped area shall be required around the base
of a sign at the rate of two square feet per one-square foot of sign area.
   (O)   Landscaped buffer and screen requirements.
      (1)   Determination of landscape buffer requirements.  Buffering and
screening standards are employed to minimize the appearance of service and
utilitarian areas of a site and to lessen the potential conflicts between
dissimilar uses located in adjacent districts. The potential degree of conflict
between the zoning districts determines the extent of the buffer required. The
buffer width is in addition to the required setbacks of the district.
      (2)   Buffer types.  Buffer types A through F and their descriptions can
be found in
Table 7.9: Landscape Buffer Types.
      (3)   Buffer yard location.  All required buffer yard areas shall be
provided entirely on the subject property. The buffer yard standards only apply
along the property lines where the two dissimilar zoning districts meet as
specified in the
Table 7.10: Landscape Buffer Requirements. The required buffer yards shall be
installed despite the presence of streets, alleys and other features. Existing
mature vegetation (such as streams and fence rows) may be credited towards
required buffering. The required buffer yards shall meet the following minimum
standards:
         (a)   Responsibility.  The developer or owner of the property being
developed or otherwise changed in use is responsible for installing the buffer
yard at the time of that development or change. The adjacent property owner
shall not have to participate in installing the buffer yard.
         (b)   Planting location.  Required bufferyard trees may be placed
either at regular intervals or in irregular patterns representing a natural
landscape providing the screen is continuous and effective. However, no two
buffer yard trees (excluding evergreen trees) shall be placed within ten feet
of one another. No buffer yard or required landscape materials shall be placed
within any easement, right-of-way or septic field. Evergreens shall be
distributed throughout the bufferyard in a manner as to ensure that a screen is
still visible during the fall, winter and spring seasons.
         (c)   Plant types.  All required plant material for screening purposes
shall be a minimum of 50% evergreen.
         (d)   Groundcover.  All portions of the buffer yard not planted with
trees, shrubs or other landscaped materials shall be covered with grass or
other groundcover vegetation. Landscaping stone or other non-vegetative
surfaces may not be substituted for groundcover unless otherwise approved by
the Administrator.
      (4)   Loading area screening standards.  Vehicle loading areas shall be
screened from public and private roads and adjacent residential districts or
uses. A Type D buffer shall be used (
Table 7.9: Landscape Buffer Types).
      (5)   Dumpster screening.  Nonresidential and multifamily refuse, grease
and recycling disposal dumpsters shall be screened on three sides by the
construction of permanent opaque wooden, brick or masonry screens. The
screening shall be a minimum of six feet in height and a maximum of eight feet
in height. The fourth side which provides access to the dumpster for refuse
collectors shall be gated and situated so that the container is not visible at
an angle greater than 45 degrees from adjacent public streets.
      (6)   Outdoor storage screening.  All nonresidential manufacturing,
assembling, construction, repairing, maintenance and storage which takes place
outdoors within view of a public street or a residential zoning district shall
require a landscape buffer of Type D or E as described in
Table 7.9: Landscape Buffer Types and as determined by the Administrator or the
Plan Commission.
   Buffer Type A      Buffer Type B         Buffer Type C
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2121.jpg]
 
   Example of Some Buffer Types
         (a)   All other storage shall be completely enclosed by a eight-foot
high screen consisting of a solid fence, masonry wall, dense plant material or
any combination thereof. (See
Table 7.9: Landscape Buffer Types, Types E and F).
         (b)   In instances where a non-opaque or open fence is used
(chainlink), landscaping consisting of evergreen plantings shall be provided
around the exterior perimeter of the required fencing planted at a rate to form
a screen a minimum of six feet high.
      (7)   Roof-, ground- and building-mounted equipment.  All roof-top and
ground-mounted mechanical equipment, such as HVAC units, shall be screened from
the view of all public streets by parapets, dormers or other screens. The
material of all screens shall be consistent with the exterior materials used on
the facade of the structure.
Table 7.9: Landscape Buffer Types
Type Minimum Width Minimum Height Landscaping Required per 100 Linear Feet of
                                  Buffer*
Table 7.9: Landscape Buffer Types
Type Minimum Width Minimum Height           Landscaping Required per 100
                                            Linear Feet of Buffer*
A    10 feet       6 feet - trees           4 trees* and 10 large shrubs
                   3 feet - shrubs
B    20 feet       6 feet - trees           6 trees and 15 shrubs
                   3 feet - shrubs
                                            3 shade trees and 10 shrubs,
                   3 feet; continuous shrub maximum spacing 3 to 5 feet on
C    5 feet        screen                   center depending on species,
                                            provided the treatment creates
                                            a continuous visual screen
                                            8 trees and 15 shrubs
D    25 feet       6 feet                   supplemented by a 3 to 6 foot
                                            earthen berm or 6 foot opaque
                                            fence
E    3 feet        8 feet                   Fence or wall shall be opaque
F    25 feet       8 feet                   8 foot fence, 6 foot berm with
                                            8 trees and 15 shrubs
                                            3 foot shrub barrier or 6 foot
G    3 feet        3 feet                   opaque fence/wall;
                                            permitted in CB District only
* At least 50% of all required screen trees and shrubs, unless otherwise
specified shall be evergreen species
 
Table 7.10: Landscape Buffer Requirements
Subject Zoning Adjacent Zoning or Similar Use
Use
               SF SF1 SF2 SF3 TR MF MH CB NB PBC PBO PBI ID IN
Table 7.10: Landscape Buffer Requirements
Subject Zoning Adjacent Zoning or Similar Use
Use
               SF  SF1 SF2 SF3 TR  MF  MH  CB  NB  PBC PBO PBI ID  IN
SF                                 B   B   D   B   D   D   D   F   B
SF1                                B   B   D   B   D   D   D   F   B
SF2                                B   B   D   B   D   D   D   F   B
SF3                                B   B   D   B   D   D   D   F   B
TR             A   A   A   A       B   B   C   A   B   D   D   F   B
MF             B   B   B   B   A       A   D   A   B   B   D   F   B
MH             B   B   B   B   B   A       D   A   B   B   D   F   B
CB             C/G C/G C/G C/G C/G C/G C/G     C/G C/G C/G D   C/E C/E
NB             B   B   B   B   A   A   A   C       B   B   B   D   B
PBC            D   D   D   D   B   B   B   D   A/B     A   B   D   A
PBO            D   D   D   D   B   B   B   C   B   A       B   D   A
PBI            D   D   D   D   D   D   D   D   B   B   B       B   F
ID             F   F   F   F   F   F   F   C/E D   D   D   B       F
IN             B   B   B   B   B   B   B   C/E B   A   A   F   F
See Table 7.9: Landscape Buffer Types for explanation of Buffer types
A, B, C, D, E and F
 
Special Uses
Airport                            D
Artificial lake of 3 acres or more A
Cemetery                           A
Penal or correctional institution  E/F
Sanitary fill                      E/F
Junk yard                          E/F
Wireless communication facilities  See §
                                   7.16 Telecommunications Facilities
See
Table 7.9: Landscape Buffer Types for explanation of Buffer types A, B, C, D,
E and F
 
Table 7.11: Trees for Planting on Streets, Highways and Parking Lots
(Generally with High Canopies, Shade Producing, Hardy)
Botanic Name Common Name Type Height Tree Category
Table 7.11: Trees for Planting on Streets, Highways and Parking Lots
(Generally with High Canopies, Shade Producing, Hardy)
Botanic Name          Common Name           Type Height           Tree Category
Acer campestre        Hedge Maple           D    30 ft. to 40 ft. Ornamental
Acer Freemanii        Freeman Maple         D    50 ft. to 60 ft. Shade
Acer rubrum           Red Maple             D    40 ft. to 60 ft. Shade
Acer saccharum        Sugar Maple           D    50 ft. to 70 ft. Shade
Carpinus betulas      Upright European      D    30 ft. to 40 ft. Ornamental
“Fastigiata”      Hornbeam
Carpinus caroliniana  American Hornbeam     D    25 ft. to 30 ft. Ornamental
Celtis occidentalis   Hackberry             D    50 ft. to 75 ft. Shade
Crataegus phaenopyrum Washington Hawthorn   D    25 ft. to 30 ft. Ornamental
Gingko biloba (male   Gingko                D    40 ft. to 60 ft. Shade
only)
Gleditzia tricanthos  Thornless Honeylocust D    30 ft. to 60 ft. Shade
inermis
Gleditzia tricanthos  Imperial Honeylocust  D    30 ft. to 60 ft. Shade
“Imperial”
Koelreuteria          Golden Rain Tree      D    30 ft. to 40 ft. Ornamental
paniculata
Liquidamber           American Sweet Gum    D    40 ft. to 60 ft. Shade
styraciflua
Liriodendron          Tulip Tree            D    70 ft. to 80 ft. Shade
tulipifera
Pyrus calleryana      Aristocrat Pear       D    35 ft. to 45 ft. Shade
“Aristocrat”
Quercus alba          White Oak             D    60 ft. to 80 ft. Shade
Quercus bicolor       Swamp White Oak       D    40 ft. to 50 ft. Shade
Quercus coccinea      Scarlet Oak           D    60 ft. to 80 ft. Shade
Quercus palustris     Pin Oak               D    50 ft. to 80 ft. Shade
Quercus phellos       Willow Oak            D    50 ft. to 70 ft. Shade
Quercus robur         English Oak           D    50 ft. to 70 ft. Shade
Quercus rubra         Red Oak               D    40 ft. to 60 ft. Shade
Sorbus alnifolia      Korean Mountain Ash   D    20 ft. to 30 ft. Ornamental
Sorbus “Aria”     White Beam Mountain   D    25 ft. to 40 ft. Ornamental
                      Ash
Tillia americana      Basswood Linden       D    40 ft. to 60 ft. Shade
Tillia cordata “GreeLittle-Leaf Linden    D    40 ft. to 50 ft. Shade
Spine”
Tillia tomentosa      Silver Linden         D    40 ft. to 50 ft. Shade
Zelkova serrata       Village Green Zelkova D    40 ft. to 60 ft. Shade
“Village Green”
D = Deciduous E = Evergreen
Note:  Several varieties of each species may be available and may substituted
upon approval by the Administrator.
 
Table 7.12: Trees for Planting on Streets and Highways that Minimize
Conflict With Overhead Utilities
Botanic Name Common Name Type Height Tree Category
Table 7.12: Trees for Planting on Streets and Highways that Minimize Conflict
With Overhead Utilities
Botanic Name          Common Name         Type Height           Tree Category
Acer campestre        Hedge Maple         D    30 ft. to 40 ft. Ornamental
Carpinus caroliniana  American Hornbeam   D    25 ft. to 30 ft. Ornamental
Cercis canadensis     Eastern Redbud      D    20 ft. to 25 ft. Ornamental
Crataegus crus-galli  Cockspur Hawthorn   D    15 ft. to 25 ft. Ornamental
Crataegus phaenopyrum Washington Hawthorn D    20 ft. to 25 ft. Ornamental
Malus hybrids         Flowering Crabapple D    15 ft. to 30 ft. Ornamental
Prunus “Newport”  Newport Plum        D    15 ft. to 20 ft. Ornamental
Prunus maackii        Amur Chokecherry    D    25 ft. to 30 ft. Ornamental
Prunus virginiana     Chokecherry         D    20 ft. to 25 ft. Ornamental
Sorbus alnifolia      Korean Mountain Ash D    20 ft. to 30 ft. Ornamental
Sorbus “Aria”     White Beam Mountain D    25 ft. to 40 ft. Ornamental
                      Ash
D = Deciduous  E = Evergreen
 
Table 7.13: Trees for Use within the Interior of a Site
Botanic Name Common Name Type Height Tree Category
Table 7.13: Trees for Use within the Interior of a Site
Botanic Name         Common Name          Type Height            Tree Category
Ornamental Trees
Amelanchier          Juneberry            D    30 ft. to 35 ft.  Ornamental
canadansis
Amelanchier          Apple Serviceberry   D    25 ft. to 30 ft.  Ornamental
grandifloria
Amelanchier laevis   Allegheny            D    25 ft. to 30 ft.  Ornamental
                     Serviceberry
Betula nigra         River Birch          D    40 ft. to 60 ft.  Ornamental
Betula papyrifera    Paper Birch          D    40 ft. to 60 ft.  Ornamental
Cercidyphyllum       Katsura Tree         D    25 ft. to 40 ft.  Ornamental
japonicum
Cercis Canadensis    Eastern Redbud       D    20 ft. to 30 ft.  Ornamental
Salix matsudana      Corkscrew Willow     D    25 ft. to 30 ft.  Ornamental
“Tortuosa”
Ornamental Accent Trees
Botanic Name         Common Name          Type Height            Tree Category
Acer ginalla         Amur Maple           D    15 ft. to 20 ft.  Ornamental
Acer palmatum        Japanese Maple       D    15 ft. to 20 ft.  Ornamental
Cornus kousa         Japanese Dogwood     D    20 ft. to 25 ft.  Ornamental
Cotinus coggyria     Smoke Tree           D    15 ft. to 20 ft.  Ornamental
Magnolia loebneri    Magnolia             D    12 ft. to 15 ft.  Ornamental
Magnolia soulangiana Saucer Magnolia      D    15 ft. to 20 ft.  Ornamental
Magnolia stellata    Star Magnolia        D    10 ft. to 15 ft.  Ornamental
Evergreen Trees
Botanic Name         Common Name          Type Height            Tree Category
Abies Concolor       White Fir            E    30 ft. to 50 ft.  Evergreen
Cupressocyparis      Leyland Cypress      E    60 ft. to 70 ft.  Evergreen
Leylandii
Picea abies          Norway Spruce        E    50 ft. to 60 ft.  Evergreen
Picea glauca densata Black Hills Spruce   E    50 ft. to 60 ft.  Evergreen
Picea omorika        Serbian Spruce       E    50 ft. to 60 ft.  Evergreen
Picea pungens        Colorado Spruce      E    60 ft. to 75 ft.  Evergreen
Picea pungens        Colorada Blue Spruce E    60 ft. to 75 ft.  Evergreen
“Glauca”
Pinus nigra          Austrian Pine        E    30 ft. to 60 ft.  Evergreen
Pinus ponderosa      Ponderosa Pine       E    40 ft. to 50 ft.  Evergreen
Pinus strobus        Eastern White Pine   E    50 ft. to 100 ft. Evergreen
Tsuga canadensis     Canada Hemlock       E    60 ft. to 75 ft.  Evergreen
D = Deciduous  E = Evergreen
 
Table 7.14: Small Shrubs Approved for Screens, Hedges and Specimen Planting
Botanic Name Common Name Type Height
Table 7.14: Small Shrubs Approved for Screens, Hedges and Specimen Planting
Botanic Name                           Common Name          Type Height
Aronia melanocarpa                     Black Chokeberry     D    4 ft. to 6 ft.
Berberis thunbergii Hybrids            Japanese Barberry    D    3 ft. to 5 ft.
Buxus microphylla “Koreana”        Korean Boxwood       E    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Chaenomeles species                    Flowering Quince     D    2 ft. to 6 ft.
Cotoneaster divaricata                 Spreading            D    5 ft. to 6 ft.
                                       Cotoneaster
Euonymus fortunei                      Euononymous          E    4 ft. to 6 ft.
Hydrangea macrophylla “Nikko Blue” Nikko blue Hydrangea D    3 ft. to 4 ft.
spp.
Ilex crenata                           Japanese Holly       E    3 ft. to 5 ft.
Mahonia aquifolium                     Oregon Grape         E    3 ft. to 6 ft.
Physocarpus opulifolius intermedius    Dwarf Ninebark       D    4 ft. to 5 ft.
Prunus glandulosa                      Dwarf Flowering      D    4 ft. to 6 ft.
                                       Almond
Rhus aromatica                         Fragment Sumac       D    4 ft. to 6 ft.
Symphoricarpos alba                    White Snowberry      D    5 ft. to 6 ft.
Weigela florida                        Flowering Weigela    D    4 ft. to 5 ft.
Weigela vaniceki                       Cardinal Shrub       D    4 ft. to 5 ft.
D = Deciduous E = Evergreen
 
Table 7.15: Large Shrubs Approved for Screens, Hedges and Specimen Planting
Botanic Name Common Name Type Height
Table 7.15: Large Shrubs Approved for Screens, Hedges and Specimen Planting
Botanic Name                      Common Name             Type Height
Caragana arborescens              Siberian Peashrub       D    12 ft. to 15 ft.
Cornus alba, “Elegantissima”  Variegated Dogwood      D    6 ft. to 10 ft.
Cornus alternifolia               Pagoda Dogwood          D    15 ft. to 20 ft.
Cornus sericea baileyi            Redtwig Dogwood         D    8 ft. to 10 ft.
Cotinus coggygria                 Smoke Tree              D    8 ft. to 10 ft.
Cotoneaster acutifolious          Peking Cotoneaster      D    4 ft. to 8 ft.
Euonymus alatus “compactus”   Burning Bush            D    7 ft. to 10 ft.
Forsythia intermedia Hybrids      Hybrid Forsythia        D    7 ft. to 10 ft.
Forsythia suspensa                Weeping Forsythia       D    8 ft. to 10 ft.
Hamamelis virginiana              Common Witch Hazel      D    10 ft. to 15 ft.
Hibiscus syriacus                 Rose of Sharon          D    4 ft. to 12 ft.
Hydrangea arborescens “AnnabelleAnnabelle Hydrangea     D    4 ft. to 15 ft.
Hydrangea paniculata              Peegee Hydrangea        D    6 ft. to 10 ft.
“Grandiflora”
Ilex meserveae                    Blue Holly              E    6 ft. to 8 ft.
Ilex opaca                        American Holly          E    8 ft. to 15 ft.
Juniperus chinensis               Chinese Juniper         E    6 ft. to 15 ft.
Juniperus scopulorum              Rocky Mountain Juniper  E    6 ft. to 15 ft.
Ligustrum amurense                Amur Privet             D    4 ft. to 8 ft.
Ligustrum “Vicaryi”           Golden Vicary Privet    D    4 ft. to 12 ft.
Myrica pennsylvanica              Northern Bayberry       D    5 ft. to 10 ft.
Philadelphus coronarius           Sweet Mockorange        D    8 ft. to 10 ft.
Philadelphus virginialis          Minnesota Snowflake     D    6 ft. to 8 ft.
Picea glauca “Conica”         Dwarf Alberta Spruce    E    6 ft. to 10 ft.
Prunus cistena                    Cistena Plum            D    6 ft. to 8 ft.
Prunus triloba                    Flowering Almond        D    8 ft. to 10 ft.
Rhamnus frangula                  Alder Buckthorn         D    12 ft. to 15 ft.
Rhus glabra                       Smooth Sumac            D    8 ft. to 10 ft.
Rhus typhina                      Staghorn Sumac          D    8 ft. to 12 ft.
Salix caprea                      French Pussy Willow     D    15 ft. to 20 ft.
Sambucus canadensis               American Elderberry     D    6 ft. to 8 ft.
Shepherdia argentea               Silver Buffaloberry     D    5 ft. to 8 ft.
Sorbaria sorbifolia               Flase Spiraea           D    6 ft. to 8 ft.
Syringa chinensis                 Chinese Lilac           D    6 ft. to 8 ft.
Syringa hyacinthiflora Hybrids    Hybrid Canadian Lilac   D    8 ft. to 12 ft.
Syringa vulgaris                  Common Lilac            D    8 ft. to 12 ft.
Syringa vulgaris Hybrids          Hybrid French Lilac     D    8 ft. to 12 ft.
Taxus cuspidata “Capitata”    Upright Japanese Yew    E    10 ft. to 25 ft.
Taxus “Hicksi”                Hick’s Yew            E    10 ft. to 12 ft.
Thuja occidentalis Hybrids        American Arbovitae      E    4 ft. to 15 ft.
Viburnum dentatum                 Arrowwood Viburnum      D    10 ft. to 15 ft.
Viburnum lantana                  Wayfaring Tree          D    8 ft. to 15 ft.
Viburnum lantago                  Nannyberry              D    8 ft. to 15 ft.
Viburnum opulus                   European Cranberry Bush D    10 ft. to 12 ft.
Viburnum placatum tomentosum      Doublefile Viburnum     D    8 ft. to 10 ft.
Viburnum prunifolium              Black Haw Viburnum      D    10 ft. to 12 ft.
Viburnum rhytidophyllum           Leatherleaf Viburnum    D    6 ft. to 15 ft.
Viburnum trilobum                 American Cranberry Bush D    8 ft. to 12 ft.
D = Deciduous E = Evergreen
 
Table 7.16: Low Spreading Shrubs Approved for Borders, Parking Islands and
Groundcover
Botanic Name Common Name Type Height
Table 7.16: Low Spreading Shrubs Approved for Borders, Parking Islands and
Groundcover
Botanic Name                       Common Name             Type Height
Berberis mentorensis               Mentor Barberry         E    3 ft. to 4 ft.
Berberis thunbergii Hybrids        Japanese Barberry       D    2 ft. to 4 ft.
Berberis verruculosa               Warty Barberry          E    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Buxus sempervirens                 Boxwood                 E    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Cotoneaster apiculata              Cranberry Cotoneaster   D    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Cotoneaster horizontalis           Rockspray Cotoneaster   D    1 ft. to 3 ft.
Daphne burkwoodii                  Burkwood Daphne         D    3 ft. to 4 ft.
Duetzia gracilis                   Slender Duetzia         D    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Euonymus fortunei “Sarcoxie”   Sarcoxie Euonymus       E    3 ft. to 4 ft.
Forsythia viridissima “BronxensisDwarf Forsythia         D    1 ft. to 2 ft.
Hypericon patulum                  St. John’s Wort       D    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Juniperus (spreading varieties)    Juniper                 E    1 ft. to 3 ft.
Mahonia aquifolium “Compacta”  Dwarf Oregon Grape      E    2 ft.
Microbiota decussata               Siberian Cypress        E    1 ft.
Philadelphus virginialis           Miniature Snowflake     D    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Picea abies “Nidiformis”       Birdnest Spruce         E    2 ft.
Picea abies “Pumila”           Dwarf Norway Spruce     E    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Picea pungens “Globosa”        Blue Globe Spruce       E    3 ft. to 4 ft.
Pinus mugo                         Mugho Pine              D    3 ft. to 4 ft.
Potentilla fruticosa Hybrids       Bush Cinqufoil          D    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Rhus aromatica “Low Grow”      Low Grow Fragment Sumac D    1 ft. to 2 ft.
Ribes alpinum                      Alpine Currant          D    3 ft. to 5 ft.
Spirea bumalda                     Spirea                  D    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Spirea japonica                    Japanese Spirea         D    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Spirea nipponica                   Nippon Spirea           D    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Symphoricarpos orbiculatus         Coral Berry             D    3 ft. to 4 ft.
Syringa patula “Miss Kim”      Dwarf Korean Lilac      D    3 ft. to 5 ft.
Taxus cupidata “Nana”          Dwarf Japanese Yew      E    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Taxus media                        Spreading Yew           E    2 ft. to 4 ft.
Thuja occidentalis “Hetzii MidgetHetz Midget Arborvitae  E    2 ft. to 3 ft.
Viburnum opulus “Nana”         European Cranberry Bush D    1 ft. to 2 ft.
D = Deciduous E = Evergreen
 
Table 7.17: Vines for Walls and Fences
Botanic Name Common Name Type
Table 7.17: Vines for Walls and Fences
Botanic Name                 Common Name                  Type
Aristolochia durior          Dutchmans’s Pipe           D
Campsis radicans             Trumpetvine                  D
Celastrus scandens           American Bittersweet         D
Clematis jackmanii           Clematis Hybrids             D
Clematis laguninos           Clematis Hybrids             D
Lonicera brownii             Dropmore Scarlet Honeysuckle D
Lonicera hechrottie          Everblooming Honeysuckle     D
Parthenocissus quinquefolia  Virginia Creeper             D
Parthenocissus triscuspidata Boston Ivy                   D
D = Deciduous E = Evergreen
 
Table 7.18: Non-Qualifying Trees
Common Name Botanical Name Negative Feature(s)
Table 7.18: Non-Qualifying Trees
Common Name           Botanical Name              Negative Feature(s)
American Elm*         Ulmus americana*            Insects, disease
Ash                   Fraxinus spp.               Disease
Boxelder              Acer negundo                Aggressive, shallow roots,
                                                  weak wood
Bradford Pear         Pyrus calleryana ‘BradfordWeak branching, low branches
Brazilian Pepper Tree Schinus terebinthifolius    Invasive
Camphor Tree          Cinnamomum camphora         Invasive
Chinaberry Tree       Melia azedarach             Invasive
Cottonwood            Populus deltoides           Weak wood, shallow roots,
                                                  seeds
European White Birch  Betula pendula              Insect prone, invasive
Ginkgo (Female)       Ginkgo biloba - Female      Fruits
Hackberry             Celtis occidentalis L.      Disease prone
Lombardy Poplar       Populus nigra ‘Italica’ Insects, disease, short-lived
Mimosa                Albizia julibrissin         Invasive
Mulberry              Morus species               Fruits, shallow roots,
                                                  invasive
Norway Maple          Acer platanoides            Invasive
Princess Tree         Paulownia tomentosa         Invasive
Russian Olive         Elaeagnus angustifolia      Poor form, disease prone,
                                                  invasive
Senegal Date Palm     Phoenix reclinata           Invasive
Siberian Elm          Ulmus pumila                Weak wood, seeds
Silver Maple          Acer saccharinum            Aggressive, shallow roots,
                                                  weak wood
Tallow Tree           Triadica sebifera           Invasive
Tree of Heaven        Ailanthus altissima         Seeds, suckers, weak wood,
                                                  invasive
White Lead Tree       Leucaena leucocephala       Invasive
White Poplar          Populus alba                Suckers, shallow roots, weak
                                                  wood, invasive
(Wild) Black Cherry   Prunus serotina             Disease prone
* Note that suitable disease resistant cultivars and hybrids exist as
substitutes for this species
 
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-07, passed 7-28-2008; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 4-13-2009; Ord. 2014-06, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 7.9  ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following general environmental standards shall be applicable to
all zoning districts.
      (1)   Land suitability.  No land should be used, or structure erected
where the land is unsuitable for that use or structure due to slopes, adverse
soil or rock formations, erosion susceptibility, or any other feature
determined by the Planning and Zoning Administrator, County Surveyor or Plan
Commission as likely to be harmful to the health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
      (2)   Preservation of natural features.  Existing natural features such
as mature trees, streams, lakes, wetlands, streamside riparian areas,
floodplains and similar assets should be preserved through harmonious and
careful design. Land to be developed shall be designed and improved as far as
practical in conformity to existing topography in order to minimize stormwater
runoff and conserve the natural cover and soil.
         (a)   Wetlands.  Wetland areas shall be protected and managed
consistent with all applicable standards of the United States Army Corps of
Engineers, the State Department of Environmental Management, United States
Department of Agriculture and other appropriate agencies. Wetlands are critical
to reducing pollutants.
         (b)   Streamside forests (riparian areas).  All structures shall be
set back a minimum of 25 feet from the top-of-bank, as determined by the
ordinance. Within this required setback, preservation of native vegetation is
encouraged and construction activity should be limited. Banks and uplands shall
be stabilized.
         (c)   Floodplains.  Floodplains shall be managed consistent with the
City Utilities and Stormwater Board. Refer to the
Chapter 56: Stormwater Management, of Volume One of the city code.
         (d)   Stormwater runoff.  Other NPDES Phase II Best Management
practices (BMPs) including vegetated swales and retention basin, bioretention
facilities and rain gardens should be used to channel and contain stormwater
runoff.
         (e)   Trees.  When the preservation of existing trees is specified by
the requirements of this ordinance and/or by conditions placed on the approval
of an application the following standards shall be met:
            (1)   Construction activity.  No construction activity damaging to
the existing trees including the driving of construction vehicles and storage
of construction materials shall occur within the drip-line of any tree to be
preserved. Signs and construction fencing shall be used to demarcate the
preservation areas and this information shall be shown on demolition, grading
and landscaping plans.
            (2)   Tree maintenance.  All trees to be preserved shall be
included in an easement which prohibits the removal of healthy trees. Trees
that are removed due to poor health, disease or act of nature shall be replaced
by the property owner prior to the conclusion of the next planting season
(spring or fall, whichever is sooner).
         (f)   Waste stored outdoors.  No waste materials such as, but not
limited to, garbage, rubbish, household appliances, inoperable vehicles,
furniture designed for interior use, gasoline, oil, flammables, soils, tars,
chemicals, greases, dead plant material, noxious weeds, industrial or
agricultural waste, or any other material of nature, quantity, obnoxiousness,
toxicity or temperature so as to contaminate, pollute or harm water bodies or
groundwater, provide a habitat for disease carrying animals and insects, or
represent a public safety hazard shall be deposited, located, stored or
discharged outside on any lot.
         (g)   Waste stored in structures.  Waste shall not be allowed to
accumulate within structures in a manner that is inconsistent with applicable
regulations for the storage of those materials.
         (h)   Open dumping.  Open dumping shall not be permitted in any zoning
district.
   (B)   Soil survey, drainage, erosion and sediment control.
      (1)   Basic requirements.  Before granting an improvement location permit
or a land disturbance/grading permit, the Planning and Zoning Administrator
shall be satisfied that the proposed development meets the applicable criteria
set forth herein for the tract of land concerning types of soils involved, and
the conditions which are requisite to assure proper execution of erosion and
sediment control and proper drainage. The Administrator shall be guided by the
information set forth in the findings in the National Cooperative Soil Survey
prepared by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Soil
Conservation Service (now Natural Resources Conservation Service - NRCS) in
cooperation with the Purdue Experiment Station and the State Department of
Natural Resources, Soil and Water Conservation District as well as the
specifications set forth herein. The Administrator may also be guided by advice
from the USDA NRCS, County Soil and Water Conservation District, County
Drainage Board, State Department of Natural Resources Division of Water, State
Department of Environmental Management and other agencies or officials offering
technical assistance on the subjects of soils, drainage, erosion and sediment
control. The applicant shall provide the information, report or plan required
for his or her application; and any expense necessary to ensure adequate
information, report or plan shall be met by the applicant.
      (2)   General.
         (a)   Minimizing erosion and sedimentation.  No changes shall be made
in the contour of the land; and no grading, excavating, removal or destruction
of the top soil, trees or other vegetative cover of the land shall be commenced
until a time that a plan for minimizing erosion and sedimentation has been
reviewed by the Administrator, or there has been a determination by the
Administrator that the plans are not necessary.
         (b)   Prerequisites for issuance of an improvement location permit. 
No improvement location permit or permit to alter land shall be issued unless:
            (1)   There has been a plan approved by the Administrator that
provides for drainage and minimizing erosion and sedimentation consistent with
this section, and an improvement bond or other acceptable securities are
deposited with the city in the form of an escrow guarantee satisfactory for the
planning, which will ensure installation and completion of the required
improvements; or
            (2)   There has been a determination by the Administrator that a
plan for drainage and minimizing erosion and sedimentation is not necessary.
      (3)   Excavations and fills.  The type of fill shall be approved by the
Administrator.
         (a)   Cut and fill slopes shall not be steeper than two to one ratio
unless stabilized by a retaining wall or cribbing or as approved by the
Administrator when handled under special conditions.
         (b)   Provisions shall be made to prevent surface water from damaging
the cut face of excavations or the sloping surfaces of fills by installation of
temporary or permanent drainage across or above these areas but site hydrology
shall not change.
         (c)   Cut and fills shall not endanger adjoining property.
         (d)   Fill shall be placed and compacted so as to minimize sliding or
erosion of the soil.
         (e)   Fills shall not encroach on natural watercourses or constructed
channels.
         (f)   Fills placed adjacent to natural watercourses or constructed
channels shall have suitable protection against erosion during periods of
flooding.
         (g)   Grading will not be done in a way so as to divert water onto the
property of another land owner without the expressed consent of the
Administrator.
         (h)   During grading operations, necessary measures for dust control
will be exercised.
         (i)   Grading equipment will not be allowed to cross live streams.
Provision will be made for the installation of temporary or permanent culverts
or bridges.
      (4)   Erosion control plan.
         (a)   Where required by this ordinance, the erosion control plan shall
be in conformance with the standards set forth in
Chapter 56: Stormwater Management, of Volume One of the city code, as amended.
The submittal standards are available in the City Planning and Building
Department offices.
         (b)   All land, regardless of slope, from which structures or
vegetative cover has been removed or destroyed, shall be appropriately graded
and seeded within 15 days after removal to prevent erosion.
      (5)   Responsibility.
         (a)   Whenever sedimentation is caused by stripping vegetation,
regrading or other development, it shall be the responsibility of the
applicant, person, corporation or other entity causing the sedimentation to
remove it from all adjoining surfaces, drainage systems and watercourses and to
repair any damage at his or her expense as quickly as possible.
         (b)   Maintenance of all driveways, parking areas, drainage facilities
and watercourses within any development area is the responsibility of the
applicant, or owner developer.
         (c)   It is the responsibility of the applicant and any person,
corporation or other entity doing any act on or across a communal stream,
watercourse or swale or upon the floodplain or right-of-way during the pendency
of the activity to return it to its original or equal condition after the
activity is completed.
         (d)   The applicant or owner will assume the responsibility for
maintaining an open and free flowing condition in all major and minor streams,
watercourses and drainage systems, constructed or improved in accordance with
city and county design criteria.
            (1)   No applicant or person, corporation or other entity shall
block, impede the flow of, alter, construct any structure or deposit any
material or thing, or commit any act which will affect normal or flood flow in
any communal stream or watercourse without having obtained prior approval from
the County Drainage Board or the State Department of Natural Resources,
Division of Water, whichever is applicable.
            (2)   Where a development area is traversed by a watercourse, the
total development of the watercourse shall be considered. There shall be
provided a drainage easement or right-of-way conforming substantially with the
line of the watercourse, and of a width as will be adequate to preserve natural
drainage to the satisfaction of the Administrator.
      (6)   Compliance with regulations and procedures.
         (a)   The design, installation and maintenance of the required
drainage facilities and erosion and sediment control measures shall be in
accordance with the criteria and standards established by the State Department
of Natural Resources and IDEM.
         (b)   The approval of plans and specifications for the control of
erosion and sedimentation shall be concurrent with the issuance of the
improvement location permit, and become a part thereof.
         (c)   Permission for clearing and grading prior to the issuance of the
improvement location permit shall be obtained under temporary easements or
other conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
         (d)   In the event the applicant or developer proceeds to clear and
grade prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit or land
disturbance/grading permit, and without satisfying conditions specified, the
Planning and Zoning Administrator shall issue a violation in accordance with
procedures set forth in
Chapter 10.
   (C)   Environmental hazards.
      (1)   General performance standards.  In the interests of protecting the
public health, safety and welfare, and to lessen injury to property, all uses
established or placed into operation after the effective date of the ordinance
comprising the unified development ordinance of the city shall comply with the
following performance standards. No use shall exhibit obnoxious characteristics
to the extent that it constitutes a public nuisance as further prescribed
hereinafter. No use in existence on the effective date of this ordinance shall
be so altered or modified to conflict with these standards.
         (a)   Fire protection.  Firefighting equipment and prevention measures
acceptable to the City Fire Department shall be readily available and apparent
when any activity involving the handling or storage of flammable or explosive
materials is conducted.
         (b)   Electrical disturbance.  No use shall cause electrical
disturbance adversely affecting radio, television or other equipment in the
vicinity.
         (c)   Noise.  No use shall produce noise in a manner as to be
objectionable because of volume, frequency, intermittence, beat, shrillness or
vibration. The noise shall be muffled or otherwise controlled so as not to
become detrimental, and shall meet the following specifications.
            (1)   No use shall produce noise in excess of 75 decibels, day or
night.
            (2)   No activity or operation producing noise, other than ordinary
vehicle noise, shall be conducted so that noise from the activity or operation
can be detected at any point off of the lot on which that use is located.
            (3)   Public safety sirens and related apparatus used solely for
public safety purposes shall be exempt from this standard.
         (d)   Vibration.  No use shall cause vibrations or concussions
detectable beyond the lot lines without the aid of instruments.
         (e)   Odor.
            (1)   Generally.  No use shall emit across the lot lines malodorous
gas or matter in a quantity as to be readily detectable without the aid of
instruments at any point along or beyond the lot lines.
            (2)   Poisonous and injurious fumes and gases.
               a.   The emission of any gas or fumes across lot lines in
concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger public health, safety,
comfort and welfare or which shall cause injury or damage to property or
business is prohibited.
               b.   The emission of toxic or injurious fumes and gases shall be
controlled so as to comply with the following. The emission from any source
shall not cause at or beyond any lot line, concentrations of toxic and/or
injurious fumes and gases in excess of 10% of the threshold limit as set for
the fume or gas in question in the Threshold Limit Values for Toxic Materials
in Industry issued by the State Board of Health from the American Conference of
Governmental Hygienists, latest issue.
         (f)   Air pollution.
            (1)   Discharge.  No use shall discharge across the lot lines fly
ash, dust, smoke, vapors, noxious, toxic or corrosive matter, or other air
pollutants in a concentration as to be detrimental to health, animals,
vegetation or property, or in conflict with public air quality standards.
            (2)   Smoke.  The emission of more than 70 smoke units per hour per
stack and emissions in excess of Ringelmann No. 2 are prohibited, except that
for one hour during any 24-hour period, this rate may be increased to 80 smoke
units per hour per stack up to and including Ringelmann No. 3 for the purposes
of process purging, soot blowing and fire cleaning, but not for more than five
minutes.
            (3)   Particulate matter.  The rate of emission of particulate
matter from an individual process within the boundaries of any lot shall not
exceed a figure of 0.06 pounds per 1,000 pounds effluent gas. Not more than 10%
by weight of particles larger than 44 microns (325 mesh) shall be allowed.
         (g)   Heat and glare.  No use on a property shall produce any glare or
heat that is detectable without the aid of instruments at the property lines of
the lot on which the use is located. All outdoor lighting shall be exempt from
these industrial standards, but shall comply with §
7.15.
         (h)   Water pollution.  No use shall produce erosion or other
pollutants whether liquid, solid or gas in a quantity as to be detrimental to
adjacent properties or in conflict with public water quality standards, or
without the necessary required approvals of the State Department of
Environmental Management.
         (i)   Waste matter. No use shall accumulate within the lot or
discharge beyond the lot lines any waste matter, debris, refuse, trash,
construction material, garbage, litter unfinished buildings, scrap metals,
inoperable vehicles or rotting wood, whether liquid or solid, in conflict with
applicable public health, safety and welfare standards and regulations.
         (j)   Ground absorption.  Any and all chemicals or liquids that are a
potential hazard for contamination must be contained so that there is no
opportunity for ground absorption and contamination.
      (2)   Exemptions.  The industrial standards provided by this chapter
shall be subject to the following exemptions.
         (a)   Farming operations.  Any applicable “Right to Farm” laws may
supersede these standards as they pertain to farming and agricultural uses.
         (b)   Exemptions.  The following uses, activities and circumstances
shall be exempt from the standards established by this chapter:
            (1)   Motor vehicles.  The operation of motor vehicles for the
transportation of personnel, material or products; and
            (2)   Public safety alerts.  Public safety sirens and related
apparatus used solely for public purposes and/or necessary for the protection
of life, limb or property.
      (3)   Applicability.  All uses shall conform with any and all applicable
requirements of the state and federal governments (including the standards of
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration -OSHA). No use on a property
shall exhibit obnoxious characteristics to the extent that it constitutes a
public nuisance defined by and subject to the city code. In cases where the
requirements of this ordinance are in conflict with other applicable
requirements, the most restrictive shall apply. The Administrator shall issue
violations for non-compliance in accordance with
Chapter 10.
      (4)   Interpretation.  The industrial standards established by this
chapter provide general guidelines for discussing expectations with new and
expanding industrial operations. They also provide references to applicable
state and federal regulations. Where applicable the determination of
conformance of industrial operations with the requirements of this chapter
shall be determined by the Plan Commission, BZA or Administrator when
consistent with the petition review procedures established by this ordinance.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.10  ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Intent.  Accessory uses shall be permitted in all zoning districts in
accordance with the provisions of this section. Accessory uses:
      (1)   Shall be incidental and subordinate to and commonly associated with
the operation of the principal use of the lot;
      (2)   Shall be operated and maintained under the same ownership and on
the same lot as the principal use;
      (3)   Shall not be permitted prior to the erection and operation of the
principal use, unless a temporary improvement location permit is obtained in
accordance with §
9.3; and
      (4)   Shall be clearly subordinate in height, area, bulk, extent and
purpose to the principal use served and shall not exceed the following:
         (a)   Setback.
            (1)   Front setback.  Accessory structures shall be located no
closer to the front lot line than the building facade line of the principal
use.
            (2)   Side setback.  Accessory structures may encroach upon the
side setback, but they may be located no closer than ten feet to the side
property line.
            (3)   Rear setback.  Accessory structures may encroach upon the
rear setback, but they may be located no closer than ten feet to the rear
property line.
            (4)   Encroachment.  Accessory structures shall not encroach upon
any required landscaping or bufferyard.
            (5)   CB District.  Refer to §
6.3 for accessory structures in the CB District.
         (b)   Area.  No accessory structure located on residentially zoned
property shall have an area greater than 50% of the area of the principal
structure. Accessory structures located on non-residentially zoned properties
shall not have an area greater than 15% of the area of the principal structure.
         (c)   Height.  No accessory structure shall have a height greater than
18 feet, or as specified in the §
7.3.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Appurtenant features such as walks, driveways, curbs, drainage
installations, chimneys, garages, gazebos, hot tub enclosures, carports,
canopies, pool houses, porches, patios, greenhouses mailboxes, lamp posts, bird
baths and structures of a like nature are permitted;
      (2)   Buildings or structures such as canopies, porte-cocheres, patios,
outdoor fireplaces, bathhouses and cabanas, doghouses, children’s play
equipment, greenhouses and similar accessory buildings or structures are
permitted;
      (3)   The keeping of no more than three domestic pets, provided it is not
for profit and not construed as a kennel, is permitted. More than three pets
shall be considered “raising or breeding of non-farm fowl and animals” and
shall be subject to the regulations of a use;
      (4)   Fences, walls and structural screens are permitted when they do not
impede intersection visibility. See §§
7.2 and
7.14;
      (5)   Off-street motor vehicle parking and loading areas are permitted,
as set forth in §
7.5;
      (6)   Signs, as set forth in §
7.7;
      (7)   Swimming pools require an improvement location permit, per §
9.3 and shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Private swimming pools shall be surrounded by a self-latching
fence at least six feet in height, located at least three feet from the edge of
the water on all sides, and maintained so as to prevent access to children or
animals. If the fence is not a six-foot privacy fence, an automatic pool cover
shall be required; and
         (b)   If any side or sides of a private swimming pool lie within 25
feet of abutting residential use:
            (1)   A solid planting screen shall be provided and maintained
which shall grow to a height of eight feet and a depth of six feet;
            (2)   A solid screen of suitable construction material to a height
of eight feet and a depth of six feet; or
            (3)   A solid screen of suitable construction material to a height
of eight feet, which will act as a sound barrier on the side or sides, shall be
provided and maintained.
      (8)   Radio and television antennae and satellite dishes, and amateur
radio sending and receiving antennae are permitted, subject to the following:
         (a)   Ground-mounted satellite dishes and antennae shall be prohibited
in any front or side yard.
         (b)   Ground-mounted dishes and antennae shall be placed between the
rear of the main structure and the rear property line, set back at least five
feet from all property lines. Required yard areas must be met.
         (c)   Ground-mounted antennae shall not exceed 12 feet in height in
any residential district or 75 feet in height in any nonresidential district,
and shall be obscured from the public right-of-way by buildings or landscaping
         (d)   Roof or building mounted antennae shall not exceed nine feet in
elevation or four feet above the highest building elevation, whichever is less.
         (e)   No satellite dish shall exceed two feet in diameter or seven
feet in height, unless the dish is mounted on a building, in which case it
shall not extend higher than the roof of the building upon which it is mounted.
      (9)   Management offices in multifamily dwellings and other facilities
normally associated with tenants’ convenience, such as vending machines and
washing machines are permitted, provided there is no exterior display and they
are screened in accordance with §
7.13;
      (10)   Dumpsters, recycling containers and trash compactors shall be
fully enclosed by a structure that shall be:
         (a)   Located no closer to any right-of-way than the principal
structure;
         (b)   A minimum of six feet and maximum of eight feet in height;
         (c)   Dumpsters and recycling containers shall be screened on three
sides by the construction of permanent opaque wooden, brick or masonry screens.
Constructed of masonry materials that are compatible with the principal
structure. Landscaping shall be used to soften the wall; and
         (d)   The fourth side which provides access to the dumpster or
recycling container for refuse collectors shall be gated and situated so that
the container is not visible at an angle greater than 45 degrees from adjacent
public streets.
      (11)   All vending machines shall be screened around the exterior of any
building on the premises. Vending machines on the exterior of any building on
the premises shall be located under an awning or contained in a roofed shelter,
stall or other structure so located as not to interfere materially with the use
of adjacent properties;
      (12)   Child care homes in accordance with I.C. 12-17-2-5;
      (13)   Storage areas are permitted only as regulated in §
7.13 of this ordinance;
      (14)   Private residential garages and carports for the storage of motor
vehicles are permitted, provided that the structures are accessory to private,
residential uses, are used for the storage of motor vehicles, and are clearly
accessory and not for commercial purposes; and
      (15)   Storage or parking of recreational vehicles (including travel
trailer, boat trailer and the like) in the open is permitted, subject to the
standards in §
7.5, §
7.13 and the following conditions:
         (a)   In any district the wheels or any similar transporting devices
of any recreational vehicle shall not be removed except for repairs, nor shall
the vehicle be otherwise permanently fixed to the ground in a manner that would
prevent ready removal of the types of mobile structures;
         (b)   Recreational vehicles may be stored or parked by the owner
thereof behind or along side the principal building in a manner that no part of
any vehicle shall project beyond the front or side setback lines of the lot;
         (c)   Not more than one recreational vehicle will be permitted to be
parked or stored in the open on residential property at any one time in
accordance with §
7.5(J)(5); and
         (d)   At no time shall a parked or stored recreational vehicle be
occupied or used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes, except as
provided for visitations in subsection (B)(15)(c) above.
   (C)   Accessory apartments.  These provisions shall apply in all zoning
districts whether the use is permitted, conditional, accessory or temporary.
Accessory apartments, also known as “granny flats” or “in-law units” shall
require a certificate of compliance as per §
9.12 obtained from the City Planning and Building Department.
      (1)   In any residential district, a conditional use may be granted for
an accessory apartment to be constructed within a single-family detached
residence or within the existing accessory structure of the residence, provided
a lot has a minimum area of 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Accessory apartments shall be limited to occupation by related
family members or domestic employees only.
      (3)   The owner(s) of the single-family lot upon which the accessory
apartment is located shall occupy at least one of the dwelling units on the
premises.
      (4)   The minimum floor area for an accessory apartment within a
principal dwelling shall be 600 square feet, but in no case shall it exceed 25%
of the area of the principal residence in which it is located.
      (5)   The minimum floor area for an accessory apartment located in an
existing accessory building shall be 600 square feet, and shall not exceed the
area of the existing accessory structure at the time the conditional use was
approved.
      (6)   No more than one accessory apartment shall be permitted per lot.
      (7)   If an accessory apartment is located within the principal building,
the only entry to the unit and its design shall be so that the appearance of
the buildings will remain as a single-family residence.
         (a)   Only one entrance to the principal building shall be visible
from the front yard.
         (b)   No exterior stairway to the second floor shall be permitted at
the front or side of the building.
      (8)   Accessory apartments located in existing accessory structures shall
be located, designed, constructed and landscaped in a manner that to the
maximum extent feasible the appearance of the property remains as a single-
family lot.
      (9)   Conditional use for accessory apartments shall be obtained from the
Board of Zoning Appeals as per §
9.5 of this ordinance and must be renewed every five years.
   (D)   Agricultural exception.  Accessory structures used exclusively for
agricultural purposes shall be exempt from maximum floor area and timing
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2015-08, passed 5-26-2015)
§ 7.11  TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Intent.  Temporary uses shall be permitted in applicable districts by
the grant of a temporary improvement location permit issued by the Planning and
Zoning Administrator in accordance with the requirements of this section,
unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   The duration of the temporary period is stated below, however,
renewal of the permit may be requested.
      (2)   Temporary uses shall be subject to all the regulations of the
applicable district in which they are located.
      (3)   All temporary uses shall occur outside of the right-of-way.
   (C)   Permitted temporary uses.
      (1)   Temporary home sales facilities.  Temporary model homes and
temporary sales trailers shall be permitted in each development until either
building permits have been obtained for greater than 90% of the lots included
in the preliminary plat for the development or two years from the date of
approval of the secondary plat or final detailed plan for the most recent
section of the development, whichever is less. An improvement location permit
shall be required.
         (a)   Location.  Temporary home sales facilities shall be located on a
lot in the development in which the homes are for sale. No other structures
shall be permitted on any lot occupied by a model home or temporary sales
trailer.
         (b)   Design requirements.  The placement of home sales facilities
shall be consistent with the following requirements.
            (1)   Uses. The use of the facility shall be limited to open house
purposes for prospective buyers. Temporary home sales facilities may not be
directly used for the purpose of selling homes in other developments or in
other communities.
            (2)   Signs.  Signs shall be placed in a manner consistent with §
7.2 and in compliance with §
7.7 of this ordinance.
         (c)   Lighting.  All exterior lighting for model homes shall be
limited to typical household exterior lighting. The use of all other types of
lighting, including floodlighting and search lights shall be as specified in §
7.15.
         (d)   Parking.  Temporary home sales facilities shall conform with the
following parking requirements.
            (1)   Model homes shall provide a minimum of five off-street
parking spaces for the use of salespersons and potential buyers. The parking
spaces shall conform to the size requirements of this ordinance. Off-street
parking for the facility shall be located in, and not extend beyond, the
driveway. The driveway area shall be consistent in size and paving with those
of the homes to be constructed in the development.
            (2)   Temporary sales trailers shall provide two off-street parking
spaces. The spaces shall be surfaced with stone meeting the requirements of the
City Street Department.
         (e)   Landscaping.  Temporary home sales facilities shall conform with
the following landscaping requirements.
            (1)   Model homes shall provide landscaping consistent with that
which will be provided for homes to be constructed in the development.
            (2)   Temporary sales trailers shall provide a landscape area
extending from the trailer for five feet in each direction. The landscaping
shall include a variety of shrubs and other materials consistent with the
landscaping design of the development. The trailer site shall be graded to
ensure proper drainage and treated with a combination of grass seed and sod
appropriate to prevent erosion and provide a lawn consistent with that of the
homes to be built in the development.
         (f)   Model home conversion.  Prior to the sale of a model home for
use as a residence, all signage shall be removed and the garage area restored.
         (g)   Sales trailer conversion.  Any builder using a temporary home
sales trailer and either constructing an approved model home, or removing the
trailer, shall restore the trailer site to pre-installation conditions,
removing the trailer and any associated signage and lighting. If the trailer is
to be replaced by a model home, the trailer and all associated site features
shall be removed prior to the issuance of a permanent certificate of occupancy
for the model home.
         (h)   Construction. Temporary building or yard for construction
trailers, materials and equipment, both incidental and necessary to
construction. Maximum time permitted: duration of the construction activity or
any extension thereof.
      (2)   Special event.
         (a)   A parking lot may be designated for a special event, but shall
be so used for no more than seven days prior to and three days after the event.
         (b)   Temporary signs may be used in connection with a special event,
but shall not be used for more than ten days and shall be used for no more than
two special events per year. See §
7.7(E) for limitations on temporary signs.
      (3)   Festivals.  Bazaars, carnivals and similar temporary uses. Maximum
time permitted: ten days.
      (4)   Garage/yard sales.  Garage/yard sales are permitted to occur four
times per calendar year, for a maximum of 12 days per calendar year. Garage/
yard sales shall be distinguished from flea markets in that garage/yards sales
are clearly incidental to residential uses, while flea markets are commercial
businesses and principal uses. In no instance shall this provision be
interpreted as permitting the operation of a flea market.
         (a)   All items of personal property sold at a garage and/or yard sale
shall be owned by the owner or occupier of the premises or by a participant at
the sale. Personal property for sale must not be property that has been
acquired by the owner expressly for the purpose of resale.
         (b)   All personal property exhibited for sale outside any structure
during a garage and/or yard sale shall be removed from the outside and placed
within a building immediately following the last day of the sale. All signs
erected for a garage and/or yard sale shall likewise be immediately removed at
the conclusion of the sale.
         (c)   No permit is required.
      (5)   Seasonal sales.  Sale of Christmas trees, outdoor tent theater,
sale of seasonal fruits and vegetables from roadside stands, tent sales.
Maximum time permitted: 60 days and no more than four sales per year.
      (6)   Parking of recreational vehicles for visitation.  Maximum time
permitted: seven days, with a maximum total of 14 days per year.
      (7)   Temporary office.  Mobile home as a temporary office during the
period of construction and development. Maximum time permitted: 18 months.
      (8)   Other similar uses.  Other similar uses deemed temporary by the
Plan Commission and attached with the time period, conditions and safeguards as
the Commission may deem necessary.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   Adequate access and off-street parking facilities shall be provided
which shall not interfere with traffic movement on adjacent streets.
      (2)   No public address systems or other noise producing devices shall be
permitted in a residential district.
      (3)   Any flood lights or other lighting shall be directed upon the
premises and shall not be detrimental to adjacent properties.
      (4)   No banners, pennants or unnecessary signs shall be permitted unless
as otherwise specified. Refer to §
7.7 for additional standards.
      (5)   The lot shall be put in clean condition devoid of temporary use
remnants upon termination of the temporary period.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.12  HOME OCCUPATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permitted districts and applicability.  Home occupations are
permitted, and these standards are applicable in, the SF, SF1, SF2, SF3, TR,
MF, MH, CB and NB Districts.
   (B)   Permitted home occupations.
      (1)   Home occupations shall be permitted as accessory uses to
residential uses subject to meeting the requirements of this ordinance and
receiving a home occupation permit from the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Those occupations shall not adversely affect the residential
character of the zoning district or interfere with the reasonable enjoyment of
adjoining property.
   (C)   Standards.  Permitted home occupations shall be subject to all the
regulations of the applicable district and meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The home occupation shall not involve any activity which is
illegal.
      (2)   The operator conducting the home occupation shall be the sole
entrepreneur, and shall not employ any other person other than a member of the
immediate family residing on the premises.
      (3)   The principal use of the structure or dwelling unit shall remain
residential, and the operator of the home occupation shall remain a resident in
the dwelling unit.
      (4)   No structural additions, enlargements or exterior alterations
changing the residential appearance to a business appearance shall be
permitted.
      (5)   No additional and separate entrance incongruent with the
residential structural design shall be constructed for the purpose of
conducting the home occupation.
      (6)   No more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall be
devoted to a home occupation.
      (7)   The home occupations shall be conducted entirely within the
principal building or dwelling unit used as a residence. No home occupation
shall be conducted in any accessory building.
      (8)   No provision for extra off-street parking or loading facilities,
other than the requirements and permitted facilities of the zone district,
shall be permitted. No part of a minimum required setback distance shall be
used for off-street parking or loading facilities, and no additional driveway
to serve the home occupations shall be permitted.
      (9)   Home occupations shall not involve on-site customers, employees,
meetings or other events that necessitate the installation of any off-street
parking spaces in addition to those required by this ordinance for the dwelling
unit. Home occupations which present a significant increase in the amount of
traffic on neighborhood streets will not be permitted.
      (10)   No display of goods or external evidence of the home occupation
shall be permitted, except for one non-animated, non-illuminated, non-flashing
announcement plate, indicating not more than the name of the occupation and
name and address of the resident. The plate shall be attached flat against the
wall of the residence and shall not exceed one-square foot in total surface
area.
      (11)   The home occupation shall not involve retailing from the residence
which, for the purpose of this section, shall mean a display of inventory
visible from the street or sidewalk and/or the sale of commodities which
requires customers visiting the premises.
      (12)   There shall be no use of equipment or processes that create noise,
vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical or electronic interference,
including interference with radio or television reception, detectable by
neighbors.
      (13)   (a)   For the purpose of this ordinance, the uses that, by the
nature of their investment or operation, have a pronounced tendency once
started to rapidly increase beyond the limits permitted for home occupations
and thereby impair the use and value of a residentially zoned area shall not be
permitted. Therefore, the uses specified below shall not be permitted as home
occupations:
            (1)   Medical, dental, law, insurance and real estate offices;
            (2)   Houses of worship;
            (3)   Dance studios;
            (4)   Automobile repair;
            (5)   Private clubs;
            (6)   Welding shops;
            (7)   Barber shops and beauty parlors;
            (8)   Boarding house;
            (9)   Animal hospitals and kennels; and
            (10)   Trailer rentals.
         (b)   Those uses listed above or any other use not meeting the
standards of this section, shall not be permitted uses in residential zoning
districts unless they are granted a variance by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
See §
9.23.
      (14)   The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to supersede
any deed restriction, covenant, agreement, master deed, bylaws or other
documents which prohibit a home occupation within a dwelling unit.
   (D)   Permitting.  No home occupation shall be allowed without the owner
first obtaining a permit from the City Planning and Building Department.
Application must be made on a form provided by the Administrator, and the
applicant for a home occupation permit shall pay required fees in connection
with the submittal of the application in accordance with the fee schedules
adopted.
   (E)   Denial of permit.  In cases where the Administrator, or his or her
appointed representative, considers the home occupation to be out of the scope
of home occupations permitted by this ordinance, the application shall be
denied.
   (F)   Time limit.  All home occupation permits shall be valid for a period
of two years from the initial date of approval.
   (G)   Renewal.  Home occupation permits may be renewed, provided there has
not been any violation of the provisions of this section. Requests for renewals
shall be submitted to the Administrator in writing, accompanied by the renewal
fee set by the adopted fee schedule, one month prior to the expiration of the
home occupation permit.
   (H)   Inspection.  Home occupation applicants shall permit a reasonable
inspection of the premises by the Planning and Building Department, in order to
determine compliance with these regulations, upon application for a home
occupation permit, upon renewal of the permit, and upon receipt of any
complaints of a violation of the regulations of this section.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.13  OUTDOOR SALES, DISPLAY AND STORAGE.
   (A)   General provisions.  The following shall apply to all districts
whether the use is permitted, conditional, accessory or temporary.
      (1)   Permanent outdoor sales, display, storage of materials, areas for
wholesaling, warehousing or distribution operations shall be permitted if they
conform to the standards of this section.
      (2)   Approved and documented permanent outdoor display, sales and
storage areas shall be permitted uses, tied to the principal use.
      (3)   Outdoor displays shall not be located in any required yards or off-
street parking or loading areas.
      (4)   Display areas shall be of concrete, asphaltic pavement or other
permanent paving material and shall be maintained in good condition.
      (5)   Approved permanent outdoor display areas can be used at any time
and for any duration to display products, seasonal sales and the like;
including vending machines, propane tanks and ice machines without the need for
another permit when new items are displayed.
      (6)   The maximum area for outdoor sales and display shall not exceed 10%
of the principal structure or primary tenant space.
      (7)   Every approved permanent outdoor display area shall be in close
proximity to the facade of the principal structure and shall be screened in
accordance with the following standards.
      (8)   Lighting shall comply with §
7.15.
   (B)   Types of uses.
      (1)   Refuse containers.  Adequate indoor or outdoor trash/recycling
containers shall be required, provided, however, that trash containers
exceeding six cubic feet shall be screened according to the provisions of §
7.10 for dumpsters, trash compactors, recycling bins and the like, and be
located in association with the principal structure, away from the view of the
street and out of the front yard.
      (2)   Outdoor vending.  Vending machines, propane displays and the like
shall be located under a covering that is part of the principal structure that
may also be enclosed with a knee wall that extends from the principal structure
and is topped with transparent fencing.
      (3)   Automobile dealership.  The outdoor display, storage and parking of
vehicles for sale shall be allowed, provided that all preparation, repair and
maintenance of the vehicles shall be enclosed. Perimeter and interior
landscaping standards for parking lots shall apply though plant material may be
clustered to maximize display.
      (4)   Industrial uses.  This subsection applies to all zoning districts.
         (a)   All industrial use operations, services and processing shall be
conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
         (b)   (1)   All storage of raw, processed or finished materials for
industrial use shall take place within completely enclosed buildings.
            (2)   Exemption. The storage of raw, processed or finished
materials for industrial use within the ID zoning district may be unenclosed,
subject to the screening standards of §
7.8(O)(6).
      (5)   Open air/drive through businesses.  Any establishment where the
principal use is a drive-through type of business, or is generally
characterized by open-air business operations, shall be subject to the
following standards:
         (a)   These business uses shall be screened according to the
provisions of §
7.8.
         (b)   These business uses shall be limited to the characteristics
customarily associated with that use and no other.
         (c)   Drive through stacking spaces shall be provided in accordance
with §
7.5 and
Table 7.4: Schedule of Parking Standards.
         (d)   All drive-through establishments shall be subject to site plan
review and approval by the Administrator prior to the issuance of any building
permits. At a minimum this review shall include off-site and on-site
circulation related to the use, including turning movement and compatibility
with pedestrian circulation.
      (6)   Storage.  These provisions shall apply in all zoning districts
whether the use is permitted, conditional, accessory or temporary.
         (a)   Storage in required yards or right-of-way.
            (1)   Storage of materials which is incidental to a principal use
in a nonresidential district shall be permitted, provided that the storage is
located within an enclosed structure, or the provisions of §
7.10 are met.
            (2)   No portion of any required yard shall be used for the
permanent storage of motor vehicles, storage containers (PODS), semi-tractors,
trailers, airplanes, boats, or parts thereof, rubbish, garbage, junk, tent or
building materials, except during construction and in accordance with the terms
of this ordinance.
            (3)   No storage shall occur within any right-of-way.
            (4)   Permanent storage, for the purpose of this subsection, shall
be construed as the presence of the storage for a period of 48 or more
consecutive hours in any one-week period.
         (b)   Bulk storage.
            (1)   In any district in which bulk storage is permitted,
structures, buildings or above- ground tanks used for bulk storage of flammable
or explosive liquids, gases or other materials, shall not be located closer
than 50 feet to the property line.
            (2)   The entire premises where the bulk storage is located shall
be enclosed within an opaque fence, or equivalent, of not less than six-feet
high, except as otherwise required by §
7.10 of this ordinance.
            (3)   Lots containing bulk storage shall be screened according to
the provisions of §
7.8.
            (4)   Additional information regarding evidence of safety measures
may be required in order to determine the public safety therein.
         (c)   Open storage.  In the event that accessory storage is in the
open, the following provisions must be met.
            (1)   The storage shall be accessory to the use of the main
building on the lot.
            (2)   The storage shall be located behind the front or exterior
wall of the main building facing any street and shall comply with all yard
regulations of this ordinance and with §
7.2.
            (3)   The storage shall not cover more than 5% of the lot area or
an area in excess of twice the ground floor area of the main building on the
lot, whichever is less.
            (4)   The storage shall be screened according to the provisions of
§
7.8.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.14  FENCE AND WALL STANDARDS.
   (A)   General standards.  These standards are applicable to all zoning
districts.
      (1)   General requirements.  Fences and walls shall be permitted in all
zoning districts upon obtaining a fence permit as per §
9.7. Fences and walls shall be subject to conformance with the following
requirements:
         (a)   Structural face.  All fences and walls shall present the non-
structural face outward.
         (b)   Drainage.  No fence or wall shall disrupt the flow of water in
any drainage easement, or otherwise result in impediments for stormwater
runoff. Any fence or wall located in an easement may be removed by the easement
holder when accessing the easement.
         (c)   Setbacks.  No fence or wall may be permitted closer than three
feet from a property line, except as may be otherwise provided in this
ordinance.
            (1)   No fence or wall may be placed in any right-of-way or
required sight visibility triangle. See §
7.2.
            (2)   Fences and walls within the easement of a drain, pond and/or
lake shall require the approval of Lebanon Utilities and/or the County
Surveyor.
            (3)   Fences shall be setback a minimum of 15 feet from the top of
bank of a pond in order to provide of emergency access and maintenance.
            (4)   Fences shall only be placed in common areas as part of an
approved development plan.
         (d)   Buffer yards.  No fence or wall may be placed in any required
buffer yard that does not specifically provide for the inclusion of fences.
         (e)   Materials.  Fences and walls shall be constructed of wood,
decorative metal, textured masonry, stone or synthetic materials styled to
simulate natural materials.
      (2)   Height exceptions.  Fences specifically required by this ordinance
for screening, telecommunications facilities, or other purposes may exceed the
maximum heights established by this chapter consistent with the appropriate
specific requirements of this ordinance.
      (3)   Height measurement.  The height of a fence shall be determined by
measuring from the adjacent grade to the highest point of the fence, excluding
fence posts. Fence posts may exceed the maximum height of the fence by up to
one foot.
   (B)   Residential fence and wall standards.  These standards are applicable
to the SF, SF1, SF2, SF3, TR, MF, MH, CB and NB Zoning Districts.
      (1)   Height requirements.  Fences and walls shall not exceed six feet in
height in any side or rear yard or three and one-half feet (42 inches) in
height in any front yard.
      (2)   Front yard fences.  Front yard fences shall be at least 50% open.
For the purposes of this requirement, the FRONT YARD shall be defined as the
area located between an adjacent street and the wall of the principal structure
that faces it.
      (3)   Fences used in combination.  Where fences are used in combination
with required landscaping on the perimeter of residential subdivisions in
designated common area or easement, the landscaping shall be placed on the
street side of the fence.
      (4)   Prohibited fences. All electrified, barbed wire, razor wire and
stockade fences are prohibited on all non-farm property. Chainlink fences are
prohibited in the frontyard in residential districts. In no instance shall this
be interpreted as prohibiting the use of invisible fences.
   (C)   Nonresidential fence and wall standards.  These standards are
applicable to the CB, NB, PBC, IN, PBO, PBI and ID Zoning Districts.
      (1)   Height requirements.  Fences and walls shall not exceed eight feet
in height in rear and side yards.
      (2)   Decorative fences.  Decorative fences constructed of high quality
materials such as brick, stone, decorative block, metal or wood not exceeding
48 inches in height and may be located in any frontyard, provided that they are
a minimum of 50% open.
      (3)   Landscaping.  Landscaping shall be used to complement the fence.
      (4)   Breaks.  Breaks should be provided by variation in height, columns,
recesses and projections. Maximum uninterrupted length of fence plane should be
100 feet.
      (5)   Fences and athletic facilities.  Fences for athletic facilities
such as ball diamonds, tennis courts and driving ranges shall be exempt from
the height requirements. Chainlink fences in rear and sideyards shall be vinyl-
coated.
      (6)   Chainlink fences.  Where chainlink fencing is used to meet
screening requirements, it shall be reinforced with a landscape screen a
minimum of six feet high.
      (7)   Prohibited fences.  All electrified, barbed wire, razor wire and
stockade fences are prohibited on all non-farm property. Uses in the General
Industrial District and penal and correctional facilities shall be exempt from
this standard.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-07, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 7.15  EXTERIOR LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   General exterior lighting standards.  These standards are applicable
to all new or replaced lighting in all zoning districts.
      (1)   Lighting plan.  A lighting plan shall be required as part of an
application for a development plan, secondary plat, PUD or approved detailed
plan. The lighting plan shall include the following information:
         (a)   A plan that shows the buildings, landscaping and parking areas
with locations of proposed exterior fixtures;
         (b)   A photometric plan;
         (c)   Manufacturer’s catalog cuts; and
         (d)   Proposed mounting height of all exterior features.
      (2)   Mounting height measurement.  For the purposes of this chapter, the
mounting height of all light fixtures shall be defined as the vertical distance
between the adjacent grade level of the surface being illuminated and the top
of the lighting fixture (luminaire).
      (3)   Cutoff.  All freestanding lights and lights mounted on walls or
facades shall use cutoff, semi-cutoff or full-cutoff luminaires.
      (4)   Shielding.  All lighting shall be fully shielded with opaque
material to prevent direct lighting on streets, alleys and adjacent properties.
      (5)   Use of timers/dimmers.  Wherever practicable, exterior lighting
shall include timers, dimmers and/or sensors to reduce overall energy
consumption and eliminate unneeded lighting.
      (6)   Light trespass.  Light trespass into the night sky and onto
neighboring properties shall be prevented through the use of those techniques
as recessed lamps (bulb), horizontally mounted lamps with reflectors, glass,
polycarbonate or acrylic refractors, louvered optics and house-side shields.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2123.jpg]
 
   Example of Lighting Trespass by Fixture Type
      (7)   Electrical service.  The electrical service to all outdoor lighting
fixtures shall be underground, unless the fixtures are mounted directly on
buildings or utility poles.
      (8)   Holiday lighting.  Holiday lighting shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
      (9)   Architectural accent lighting. All ground lighting used to cast
light on building facades, building features or signs shall have shields to
ensure that light does not project beyond the building or sign, and shall
utilize the minimum amount of light necessary to light the facade, building
feature or sign. The light fixture and bulb shall be shielded from view of any
street, sidewalk or parking lot.
   (B)   Residential lighting.  These following standards shall apply to
residential uses or zoning districts.
      (1)   The maximum height of light fixtures including the base shall not
exceed 15 feet.
      (2)   Light fixtures shall be coordinated and used to enhance the overall
design and character of the neighborhood.
      (3)   Light levels shall not exceed three-tenths footcandles at the
property line. Facial identification is possible at five-tenths footcandles.
      (4)   In the absence of residential street lighting, yard post or wall-
mounted dusk-to-dawn coach lights shall be provided on each residence.
   (C)   Commercial lighting.  Street and parking lot lighting shall be part of
the overall design concept and addressed as part of the development plan. The
requirements are as follows.
      (1)   Uniformity.  Lights shall be arranged in order to provide uniform
illumination throughout the parking lot.
      (2)   Levels.  The average maximum maintained illumination shall be three
footcandles. The maximum footcandles at the property line shall not exceed
five-tenths footcandles. If adjacent to residential district or use, the light
level shall not exceed three-tenths footcandles at the property line. If
adjacent to an intersection of two public rights-of-way, or at the intersection
of a private entrance drive and a public right-of-way, the illumination may be
an average maximum of six-tenths footcandles at the property line for up to 75
feet from the intersection right-of-way.
      (3)   Shielding.  Lights shall be placed and employ shields as to avoid
glare and direct illumination away from adjacent properties or streets.
      (4)   Placement.  Lighting shall be considered for entrances, drive
aisles, parking lots, pedestrian areas and to highlight the building.
      (5)   Lighting fixtures.  All lighting fixtures providing illumination
shall be full cutoff, cutoff or semi-cutoff fixtures (most to least
restrictive) and directed downward at ground level. All luminaires with these
features comply with “dark sky” recommendations for exterior lighting. Refer to
Illumination Engineering Society of North America (IESNA) guidelines.
      (6)   Maximum mounting height.  The maximum mounting height for street
and parking lot light fixtures shall be 24 feet in multifamily residential,
institutional and commercial zoning districts; and 30 feet in all industrial
zoning districts.
   (D)   Illuminated canopy requirements.  Lighting levels under canopies for
gas stations, convenience stores, drive-up banking centers and similar
locations shall be adequate to facilitate the activities taking place on the
property, and shall not be used for the purpose of illuminating signs. This
lighting shall conform with the following requirements.
      (1)   All light fixtures mounted on the canopies shall be recessed so
that the lens cover is recessed or flush with the bottom surface (ceiling) of
the canopy.
      (2)   The lighting of the canopy shall use indirect lighting through
which light is beamed upward and then reflected down from the underside of the
canopy by light fixtures that are shielded so that illumination is focused
exclusively on the underside of the canopy.
      (3)   The minimum illumination under canopies shall not exceed five
footcandles at grade level, and the average maintained illumination shall not
exceed 30 footcandles.
      (4)   Lights shall not be mounted on the top or sides of any canopy and
the sides of the canopy shall not be illuminated. In no instances shall this be
interpreted as prohibiting the placement of signs on the canopy which are
illuminated consistent with the standards for sign illumination in this
chapter.
      (5)   Lighting for drive-through bays used for car wash, oil change or
similar must be fully shielded as if located outside.
   (E)   Lighting of exterior display/sales areas. Lighting levels on exterior
display/sales areas shall be adequate to facilitate the activities taking place
in these locations. This lighting shall conform with the following
requirements.
      (1)   Lighting fixtures.  All lighting fixtures used to illuminate
exterior display/sales areas shall be cutoff, semi-cutoff or full cutoff
fixtures (luminaires) focused directly downward onto the display/sales area.
The light fixtures shall be located, mounted, aimed and shielded so that direct
light is not cast onto adjacent streets or properties.
      (2)   Fixture location.  All lighting fixtures and mounting poles shall
be located within the areas being illuminated.
      (3)   Light levels.  The average horizontal illumination at grade level
shall not exceed five footcandles on average and minimum illumination shall not
exceed a four to one ratio.
   (F)   Lighting of outdoor athletic/performance facilities.  Lighting for all
outdoor athletic and performance facilities and events shall provide adequate
light for the event or facility while minimizing light pollution and the
illumination of adjacent streets and properties.
      (1)   Play/performance area lighting.  Lighting fixtures for the playing
fields and/or performance areas shall be specifically mounted and aimed so that
their beams fall directly within the play/performance area and its immediate
surroundings and does not spill onto adjacent streets or properties.
      (2)   Dual lighting system.  The use of spotlights and/or floodlights to
illuminate the play/performance area shall be permitted. However, each facility
shall be designed and constructed with a dual lighting system which permits the
main lighting for the event (spotlighting, floodlighting and the like) to be
turned off, with an alternate low level lighting system used for clean-up,
night maintenance and other activities.
      (3)   Certified.  Limits on light trespass as stated above apply to
outdoor facilities. Every lighting system design and installation of this type
shall be certified by a registered engineer as conforming to all applicable
restrictions of this ordinance.
      (4)   Maximum levels.  Maximum levels of illumination shall not exceed 40
footcandles.
      (5)   Exemptions.  Outdoor athletic fields and courts established as
accessory uses to single and two-family residences shall be exempt from these
requirements.
   (G)   Security lighting.  Security lighting shall be coordinated with other
lighting on the property to the extent possible and shall otherwise conform
with the following requirements.
      (1)   Nonresidential lighting fixtures.  All security lighting in
nonresidential areas shall be shielded and specifically aimed so that
illumination is directed only to the intended area. The light source for any
security lighting shall include shields that prevent their light source or lens
from being visible from adjacent properties and/or streets.
      (2)   Residential lighting fixtures.  Security lighting fixtures in
residential areas shall make use of indirect and reflected lighting techniques
to provide soft lighting under canopies, entry porches or soffits.
   (H)   Lighting of building facades or other vertical structures.  Building
facades or other structures may be illuminated, subject to the following
requirements.
      (1)   Lighting fixtures.  Lighting fixtures shall be located, aimed and
shielded so that light is directed only onto the building facade. Lighting
fixtures shall not be directed toward adjacent streets or roads.
      (2)   Lighting direction.  Lighting fixtures shall be designed to wash
the facade of the building with light (rather than providing a spot or
floodlight affect) and may be directed upward or downward onto the facade.
Exterior facade lighting shall be contained on the building facade or in the
landscape areas adjacent to the building and shall focus on entries and
architectural features.
      (3)   Upward lighting.  If upward lighting is used to illuminate flags,
only spotlights shall be used; floodlights directed above the horizontal shall
not be used to illuminate a flag.
   (I)   Illuminated signs.
      (1)   External illumination.  External lighting fixtures illuminating
signs shall be located, aimed and shielded so that light is directed onto only
the sign face, with minimal light spillage. Lighting fixtures shall not be
aimed toward adjacent streets, roads or properties.
      (2)   Internal illumination.  Internally illuminated signs constructed
with an opaque background and lighter contrasting text or symbols are
preferred. When within 600 feet of a residential use or district, the average
level of illumination on the vertical surface of the sign shall not exceed
three luces.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.16  TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Wireless communication facilities (cell towers).  These provisions
shall apply in all zoning districts whether the use is permitted, conditional,
accessory or temporary.
   (B)   Required approvals.  The placement of telecommunications facilities
shall meet the following approval requirements:
      (1)   Installation of new antenna.  The installation of new antenna(s) on
existing towers, including legal nonconforming towers and existing alternative
structures (such as water towers, buildings or church steeples). New antenna
that will add any height to an existing tower, or extend over ten feet above
the highest point of any alternative structure shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter for the installation of new towers as described;
      (2)   Installation of new accessory structures.  The installation of new
accessory structure(s), such as equipment buildings, to support the
installation of antenna on existing towers or alternative structures; and
      (3)   Installation of new tower.  The installation of any new tower(s)
shall be reviewed consistent with the provisions of this chapter and
Chapter 4.
   (C)   Determination of new tower need.  Any proposal for a new
telecommunications tower shall only be approved if the applicant submits
verification from a professional engineer licensed in the state that the
antennas planned for the proposed tower cannot be accommodated on any existing
or approved towers or other structures within a two-mile radius of the proposed
tower location due to one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Inadequate structural capacity.  The antennas would exceed the
structural capacity of the existing or approved tower or other structure and
the existing or approved tower, building or other structure cannot be
reinforced, modified or replaced to accommodate the antennas at a reasonable
cost;
      (2)   Interference.  The antennas would cause interference impacting the
usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower site and the
interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
      (3)   Inadequate height.  The existing or approved towers or structures
within the search radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height
necessary to function reasonably;
      (4)   Unforeseen circumstances.  Other unforeseen reasons that make it
unfeasible or impossible to locate the planned telecommunications equipment
upon an existing or approved tower or structure;
      (5)   Commonly reasonable lease agreement.  The proposed tower owner is
unable to enter a commonly reasonable lease term with the existing tower owner
or land owner; and
      (6)   Land availability.  Additional land area is not available (when
necessary).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2125.jpg]
 
   Sample Telecommunications Facility Layout
   (D)   Co-location capability. New freestanding towers classified as a
wireless communication facility for purposes other than commercial radio or
television broadcast shall be designed and engineered structurally,
electrically and in all other respects to accommodate both the applicant’s
equipment and at least one additional user for every 50 feet in total tower
height in excess of 75 feet.
      (1)   Each additional user shall be assumed to have an antenna loading
equal to that of the initial user.
      (2)   Towers must be designed to allow for rearrangement of antennas and
to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
      (3)   An affidavit shall be submitted with the development plan stating
the extent to which the tower owner agrees to allow additional equipment by
other service providers to be located on the tower and its premises on a
reasonable and non-discriminatory basis.
   (E)   Abandoned facilities.  The owner of the property shall notify the
Administrator at the time that a wireless communication facility ceases
operation. Any tower or antenna that is not operated for a period of six months
shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of the tower or antenna, or the
owner of the property, shall remove the same, including any accessory
equipment, within 60 days, after which time the city may cause removal of the
tower or antenna at the property owner’s expense. After written notice to the
property owner, the city may place a lien on the property until the city is
reimbursed for the cost of removal of the abandoned wireless telecommunication
facility. If there are two or more users of a single tower, this provision
shall not become effective until all antennas located on the tower cease
operation for the period specified above.
   (F)   Design requirements.  All telecommunications facilities shall meet the
following design requirements.
      (1)   Contextual design.  Towers and antennas should generally be
designed to blend into the surrounding environment through the use of color,
camouflaging and architectural treatment, except in an instance where the color
is dictated by federal or state authorities such as the Federal Aviation
Administration.
         (a)   Wireless telecommunication towers should generally be of a
monopole design and, when located within or adjacent to an environmentally or
aesthetically sensitive area, or a residential district, be designed to
architecturally camouflage the wireless telecommunication tower as much as
reasonably practical to blend into the surroundings.
         (b)   The use of residentially compatible materials such as wood,
brick or stone is required for associated accessory structures, which shall be
designed to architecturally match the exterior of any adjacent residential or
commercial structures within the neighborhood or area.
      (2)   Lighting.  Only when lighting is for safety or security reasons or
required by the FAA or other federal or state authority will it be permitted.
All ground level security lighting shall be oriented inward so as not to
project onto surrounding properties, and shall have 90-degree cutoff luminaries
(shielded downlighting).
      (3)   Tower height.  All towers and antenna shall conform with all FAA
tall structure requirements. Tower height shall be expressed as, and measured
from, ground level in all instances.
         (a)   In the NB, CB, PBC, IN Zoning Districts the maximum height of
the tower shall be 150 feet. The maximum height of any accessory structure
shall be 15 feet.
         (b)   In the PBI and ID zoning districts the maximum height of the
tower shall be 200 feet. The maximum height of any accessory structure shall be
15 feet.
         (c)   Antennas mounted as an accessory on top of a building, water
tower or other tall structure having another primary function shall not extend
more than 15 feet above the highest point of the structure.
      (4)   Setbacks.
         (a)   The minimum front, side and rear yard setback for all towers
shall be 50 feet from all property lines. No part of a wireless
telecommunications facility, including the security fence, any required guide
wires or bracing and required landscape screening shall be permitted in any
required front yard setback.
         (b)   Landscape screening in addition to the requirements of this
chapter may be provided in the setback area.
         (a)   No tower shall be placed closer than 500 feet to any property
included in a residential zoning district.
      (5)   Interference with public safety facilities.  No new
telecommunications facility shall result in any interference with public safety
telecommunications.
      (6)   Security fencing.  An six-foot high security fence shall completely
surround the tower and accessory equipment building site.
         (a)   An area ten feet in width shall remain outside of the fence for
the purpose of providing the landscape screening described below.
         (b)   In all zoning districts, the required security fence enclosing
the facility shall be 100% opaque and of wood, brick or stone construction.
Opaque six-foot tall wooden gates shall be provided to access the facility.
Chainlink fencing may be used when landscaping is used to form a continuous
screen. Planting shall be evergreens.
      (7)   Landscape screening.  Evergreen buffer plantings shall be located
around the outermost perimeter of the security fence of all wireless
telecommunications facilities, including any wires and anchors.
         (a)   If evergreen hedges are used, they shall be a minimum of four
feet tall at the time of planting (measured from ground level) and shall be
planted a maximum of three feet on center.
         (b)   If evergreen trees are used, they shall be a minimum of six feet
tall at the time of planting (measured from the top of the rootball), and shall
be planted a maximum of ten feet on center.
         (c)   Existing vegetation (trees and shrubs) shall be preserved to the
maximum extent possible.
      (8)   Signs.  No sign, banner or flag shall be placed on the premises of
a wireless communication facility, except one non-illuminated permanent sign
not larger than two square feet for the purpose of identification in the case
of an emergency.
      (9)   Vehicular access.  Vehicular access to the tower and equipment
building shall, whenever feasible, be provided along existing driveways.
Vehicle access drives may be gravel in the residential zoning districts, and
shall be paved in all other zoning districts. Any portion of the entrance
located in a public right-of-way shall meet the applicable public street
design, construction and pavement requirements.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.17  ADULT BUSINESSES STANDARDS.
   (A)   Location.  An adult business establishment shall be a conditional use
in the General Industrial district.
      (1)   No regulated use shall be permitted within 1,000 feet of any other
existing regulated use and within 1,000 feet of any residentially zoned
district, planned business district, institutional district or any of the
following residentially related uses:
         (a)   Churches, monasteries, chapels, synagogues, convents, rectories,
religious article or religious apparel stores;
         (b)   Schools up to and including the twelfth grade including their
adjunct play areas; and
         (c)   Public playgrounds, public swimming pools, public parks and
public libraries.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, distances shall be measured as
follows: from all property lines of any regulated use and from the outward line
boundary of all residentially zoned districts and from all property lines of
any residentially related use.
   (B)   Definition.  An ADULT BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT is hereby designated as a
regulated use and is defined as follows:
      (1)   An establishment having as a substantial or significant portion of
its stock in trade those books, magazines or periodicals that are distinguished
or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating
to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
      (2)   An establishment with a segment or section of its floor space or
display area devoted to the sale or display of that material;
      (3)   An enclosed building with an attendance capacity for less than 50
persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons herein; or
      (4)   An adult club, restaurant, theater, hall or similar place that
features topless dancers, exotic dancers, strippers (male or female), male or
female impersonators or similar entertainers exhibiting:
         (a)   Specified anatomical areas that are less than completely and
opaquely covered:
            (1)   Human genitals;
            (2)   The pubic region of the human body;
            (3)   Buttocks;
            (4)   Female breasts below a point immediately above the nipple;
and
            (5)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
         (b)   Performing specified sexual activities that include:
            (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
            (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
            (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or female breasts.
   (C)   Regulated use.  The regulated use shall be permitted a sign or other
visible message based on the allowable sign area of the zoning district in
which the use is located provided that the sign message shall be limited to
verbal description of material and/or services provided on the premises and
shall not include any graphic or pictorial depiction of material and/or
services available on the premises.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.18  DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential design.  These standards apply to new single-family
detached, attached and two-family housing in the city. In addition to new
residential development, these standards shall apply to any existing
residential buildings if any expansion or alteration exceeds 50% of the
building’s assessed value at the time of expansion or alteration. Major
subdivisions in residential zoning districts SF, SF1, SF2, SF3, TR, NB and CB
shall include the following minimum building design standards.
      (1)   Anti-monotony.  Homes located in close proximity shall not be of
the same front elevation. This does not prohibit the home to the rear from
being the same front elevation.
         (a)   Mirror images of the same configuration/elevation do not meet
the requirement.
         (b)   No house shall be of the same front elevation design as any
other house within four lots along the same block face nor directly across the
street.
         (c)   No single front elevation house design may constitute more than
25% of the front elevation house design within any single phase of a
development.
      (2)   Chimneys.  Exterior chimneys for fireplaces shall be entirely
masonry if the building or structure is more than 50% masonry, unless placed on
the rear exterior wall of the residence. Chimneys that do not originate on an
exterior wall that protrude through the roof may be of material other than
masonry.
      (3)   Corner lots.  Residences built on corner lots shall include a
minimum of three windows of minimum size three feet by five feet, on the side
of the home facing the street (street side-yard).
      (4)   Driveway width. The minimum pavement widths for driveways and
interior drives shall meet the following requirements, exclusive of any parking
spaces:
         (a)   For single and two-family residential uses the minimum driveway
width shall be 12 feet.
         (b)   The maximum driveway width at the property line shall be 20
feet. However, a driveway 30 feet in width at the property line shall be
permitted provided that the lot width is a minimum of 100 feet and it serves a
garage with at least three bays having street frontage.
      (5)   Fences.  Developments in single-family residential zoning districts
SF1, SF2 and SF3 and TR may have fences in the street side yard (corner lots)
provided the fences are at least 50% open. Refer also to §
7.14.
         (a)   Chainlink is prohibited in the front and street side yard.
         (b)   Fences shall be no higher than 42 inches from the adjacent
finished grade.
         (c)   The fence may be located no closer than five feet from the
right-of-way and shall be located no closer than ten feet from the primary
facade of the residence.
         (d)   The fence shall also be located outside of the sight visibility
triangle if higher than 36 inches.
      (6)   Facades.  Exterior materials shall be masonry (brick, stone,
textured and colored split-face concrete masonry units), wood, fiber cement
board siding, stucco, composite lap siding, aluminum siding or heavy-gauge
vinyl. Vinyl siding shall be approved and endorsed as meeting or exceeding ASTM
D3679 by the Vinyl Siding Institute (VSI) through the VSI siding certification
program. The minimum thickness of vinyl siding shall be 0.044 inches.
         (a)   Front elevation.  All homes shall have masonry (brick, stone,
textured and colored concrete masonry units) on a minimum 50% of the front
elevation, excluding doors, windows and other openings.
         (b)   Side and rear elevations.  Side and rear home elevations
abutting a public or private street shall have at least 30% masonry as the
exterior building material on that visible elevation and shall contain at least
one architectural feature from subsection (A)(7) below.
         (c)   Unless adjacent to masonry wrap, all windows, doors and corners
shall have a minimum nominal one-inch by six-inch wood or vinyl surround,
shutters, decorative trim or headers.
         (d)   The Planning and Zoning Administrator may consider a request for
modification to the masonry requirement when extraordinary or innovative
architectural styles (Victorian, farmhouse, Cape Cod) that provide many other
architectural features maintain the spirit rather than the intent of these
design standards.
      (7)   Architectural features.  All houses shall have a minimum of four
features from the following list. Porches, sideload or court-entry garages or
full first floor masonry wrap, each count as two features towards the required
four.
         (a)   Front porch; minimum eight feet in width and four feet in depth
supported by columns (two points);
         (b)   Veranda/balcony;
         (c)   Reverse gable;
         (d)   Turrets;
         (e)   Two or more roof planes visible on the front of the house;
         (f)   Decorative garage doors or windows in garage doors;
         (g)   A separate overhead door for each single garage bay;
         (h)   Side-loaded or court-entry garage (two points);
         (i)   Brick, stone or textured concrete masonry on 100% of the front
elevation (excluding openings);
         (j)   At least four feet of relief at one or more points along the
front or rear elevations;
         (k)   Full first floor masonry wrap (two points);
         (l)   Sunroom, screened porch or breakfast nook on rear for relief;
         (m)   Transom windows;
         (n)   Bay windows;
         (o)   Two or more dormers;
         (p)   Decorative geometric front, rear and side gable roof vents or
windows;
         (q)   Shutters (all elevations); and
         (r)   Architecturally accented entry.
      (8)   Facade proportions.  A single-family dwelling facade shall comprise
at least 55% of the total facade width. The garage shall not exceed more than
45% of the facade width.
      (9)   Entries.  Single-family dwelling entries shall have at least one
building-mounted or yard post dusk-to-dawn light fixture.
      (10)   Roof.
         (a)   Minimum pitch.  Five to 12.
         (b)   Materials.  Roof materials such as tile, slate, cedar shake with
fire protection, three-dimensional asphalt, fiberglass shingles, standing seam
metal or other approved metal that simulates traditional roofing materials
shall be used on all structures.
         (c)   Overhang.  Roofs shall have a minimum nine-inch overhang on all
sides.
      (11)   Garages.  Each home shall have at a minimum an attached two-car
garage.
         (a)   Three-car garages.  The third bay shall have a separate door and
shall be recessed four feet from the other bays.
         (b)   Garage-forward design.
            (1)   Front-loaded garages that protrude between eight and 12 feet
forward of the dwelling area shall have at least one window installed in the
garage wall that is perpendicular to the facade of the dwelling.
            (2)   Front-loaded garages that protrude between 12 and 16 feet
forward of the dwelling area shall have at least two windows installed in the
garage wall that is perpendicular to the facade of the dwelling.
            (3)   Garages that protrude more than 16 feet shall be side-loaded
and shall install a window(s) that faces the street.
      (12)   Lighting.  For residential areas where street lighting is not
present, dusk-to-dawn lighting shall be required for each home. The light
fixture shall be either building-mounted or mounted within the front yard on a
post with a maximum height of six feet.
      (13)   Landscaping.  Refer to §
7.8.
   (B)   Multifamily design.  All new multifamily developments (apartments,
townhomes) of three units or more shall require development plan review and are
subject to the following standards. Multifamily development in the CB District
may be subject to additional design guidelines in §
6.3.
      (1)   Certificate of compliance.  When a residential use is converted
from a single- or two-family use to a multifamily use, a certificate of
compliance as per §
9.12 shall be obtained. See §
7.20 for conversions.
      (2)   Layout and site planning.
         (a)   Topography.  Buildings shall be sited in relation to topography
of the site, which minimizes cut and fill and limits maximum on-site slope to
10%.
         (b)   Existing vegetation and natural features.  Attempts shall be
made to preserve existing vegetation and natural features.
         (c)   Building orientation.  Multifamily building(s) shall be oriented
to the street, a common open space or clustered to form neighborhoods.
Multifamily buildings shall not be oriented to parking lots. Accessory
buildings (including residential garages, storage buildings and the like) shall
be located behind the principal building. No principal or accessory building
shall have service doors, garage doors, loading doors or similar service
entrances opening toward or oriented to the street.
         (d)   Location of buildings.  Buildings shall be located so that the
window to window distance shall not be less than 40 feet, with the distance to
be measured by a line perpendicular to the plane of the surface of the window.
This distance may be reduced to not less than 30 feet for an exposure where a
room is a bathroom or laundry/utility room or is used as a community or group
meeting room or for a similar purpose.
         (e)   Location of individual buildings.  Individual buildings shall be
located to avoid more than two buildings with parallel orientations to a public
street. Vary the orientation to lessen the massing. The maximum length of a
multifamily building shall not exceed 200 feet.
         (f)   Off-street parking, driveways and the like.  Off-street parking,
driveway, drive aisles, carport, garage or service facilities may encroach into
the side or rear yard as specified in §
7.10, but shall be no closer than ten feet to any lot line. In no event shall
parking be located in the required front yard nor encroach into any required
landscaping.
      (3)   Open space.
         (a)   All new multifamily developments shall provide a minimum of 12%
of the net site acreage as usable common open space for active or passive
recreation.
         (b)   The following areas shall not count toward open space:
            (1)   Private yards, patios;
            (2)   Streets, drives or parking areas;
            (3)   Land areas between buildings of less than 40 feet;
            (4)   Required perimeter setbacks; and
            (5)   Detention/retention facilities unless accessible by all
residents of the development and useable recreation areas as determined by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation.  Create a hierarchy of
internal drives.
         (a)   Drives shall be a minimum of 24 feet wide. The city may request
wider drives if on- street parking is permitted.
         (b)   A minimum of two means of access shall be provided for:
            (1)   Any residential subdivision with 50 or more single- or two-
family residential lots;
            (2)   Any development having one or more commercial, multifamily or
industrial structure of three stories or greater in height; or
            (3)   Any development having three or more commercial, multifamily
or industrial structures of any height.
         (c)   The internal street system shall connect to surrounding
neighborhood and local streets.
         (d)   All internal sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet wide.
         (e)   All internal sidewalks shall connect to adjacent commercial
areas, schools, parks, places of worship and other points of public interest.
      (5)   Facade.
         (a)   Variation.  Architectural detailing, horizontal/vertical
offsets, window details and other features shall be provided on all sides of
the building to avoid featureless building massing, enhance character and style
and reduce the visual scale.
         (b)   Continuous facades.  Buildings with continuous facades that are
90 feet or greater in width, shall be designed with offsets (projecting or
recessed) not less than two feet deep, and at intervals of not greater than 60
feet.
         (c)   Durability.  Materials shall be durable. Visually heavier
materials should be used as the building’s foundation.
            (1)   Exposed foundations shall be constructed of one or more of
the following:
               a.   Brick;
               b.   Stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone and the like); or
               c.   Split-face, integrally-colored block or architectural
precast concrete that simulates natural material.
            (2)   Facade walls shall be constructed of any combination of the
following. A minimum of 50% shall be masonry:
               a.   Stone;
               b.   Wood clapboard siding;
               c.   Brick;
               d.   Stucco with smooth finish or external insulation and finish
system (E.I.F.S.); not to exceed 20% of the overall non-window facade area; or
               e.   Cement fiber board (e.g., “Hardi-plank”).
            (3)   Facade plane projections such as the following are
encouraged:
               a.   Veranda/balcony;
               b.   Sunroom;
               c.   Screened porch;
               d.   Breakfast nook; or
               e.   Turret.
            (4)   The facades of townhomes should be detailed to differentiate
individual units.
      (6)   Entries.  Entries shall be clearly defined and accented with
features such as awnings, porticos, overhangs, recesses/projections, arcades,
raised corniced parapets over the door, peaked roof forms and arches.
      (7)   Roof.
         (a)   Pitch.  Minimum pitch for pitched roofs shall be five to 12.
         (b)   Materials.  Quality roof materials such as tile, slate, three-
dimensional asphalt or fiberglass shingles shall be used on all structures.
         (c)   Minimum eave/overhang width.  All multifamily buildings shall
have eaves or overhangs a minimum of 12 inches deep.
         (d)   Facade and roof articulation.  Any structure with three or more
units shall incorporate significant wall and roof articulation every 100 feet
to reduce apparent scale. Elements such as balconies, porches, arcades,
dormers, cross gables, secondary hipped or gabled roofs can be used to achieve
this appearance.
         (e)   Flat roofs.  Flat roofs shall contain a cornice or molding, and
vary in height or shape every 50 feet.
         (f)   Roof top mechanical equipment.  Roof top mechanical equipment
shall either be camouflaged on all sides or visually integrated into the
overall design of the building. In no case shall roof top mechanical equipment
be visible from adjoining streets, residential zones or uses.
      (8)   Automobile storage.
         (a)   Garage access.  All attached garages shall provide access
internally from the garage to individual units.
         (b)   Minimum garage depth.  Twenty-two feet.
         (c)   Minimum garage width.  Twelve feet.
         (d)   Carport.  Where established, carports shall:
            (1)   Meet all setback standards around the perimeter of the site
applicable to a principal structure; and
            (2)   Be designed in keeping with the principal structure and the
materials shall be compatible with those of the principal structure.
      (9)   Windows.  Windows are required on all sides of the building that
are:
         (a)   Adjacent to a street;
         (b)   Adjacent to a common area; or
         (c)   Not perpendicular to the street.
      (10)   Mechanical and utility equipment screening.  In the zoning
district, all mechanical equipment (ground-, roof- and building-mounted) shall
be screened from view. Screening can be achieved by landscaping, fences or
walls for ground-placed equipment, and the use of parapet walls or other roof
designs for roof-mounted equipment. Screening enclosures shall be
architecturally compatible with the principal structure.
      (11)   Fire safety.  The Building or Fire Code Official of the city shall
have the authority to require or increase a fire-protection rating in any
structural assembly of an approved multifamily dwelling or mixed-use occupancy
that includes a residential occupancy.
      (12)   Dumpster and storage area screening.  Dumpsters and storage areas
shall be enclosed with a solid enclosure that complements the architecture of
the principal structure, is a minimum of six feet in height and contains a
solid gate. Shrub plant material shall be provided where possible to further
enhance the wall enclosure. Dumpster enclosures attached to the principal
structure shall be designed as an architecturally integrated part of the
principal structure.
   (C)   Nonresidential.
      (1)   Applicability.  All nonresidential developments shall meet or
exceed the requirements of this chapter, in addition to all other applicable
development standards established by this ordinance. These nonresidential
standards shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Improvement location permit applications for new structures
submitted on or after the effective date of this ordinance;
         (b)   Expansions greater than 50% of pre-existing site, structure or
building; and
         (c)   Expansions to other structures that result in a structure
greater than 20,000 square feet in gross floor area.
      (2)   Site layout.
         (a)   Site planning which encourages compatibility between the site
and the buildings and between all buildings on the site is encouraged. Where
natural or existing topographic patterns contribute to a development, they
shall be preserved and developed. Modification to topography shall be permitted
where it contributes to the overall development.
         (b)   The orientation of buildings shall promote interaction with the
street and provide a pedestrian friendly environment. All principal and outlot
site buildings shall be arranged so that they complement existing development.
The buildings shall frame a corner or enclose a “main street” type corridor.
Islands surrounded by parking should be avoided.
         (c)   Newly installed infrastructure and service revisions
necessitated by exterior alterations shall be underground. To the extent
possible, all existing overhead utilities shall be relocated underground.
         (d)   All structures shall be evaluated in terms of scale, mass,
color, proportion and compatibility with adjoining developments.
         (e)   Establishments where the principal use is the drive-through type
of business are not permitted.
      (3)   Vehicular access.  Major and minor arterials and major collector
streets must have reasonable restrictions as to the numbers and location of
access points. To provide safe and sufficient traffic movement to and from
adjacent lands:
         (a)   Frontage roads, access roads and other internal drives may have
to be constructed to create a hierarchy of roads for safe on-site circulation.
These internal drives shall provide pedestrian access and landscaping;
         (b)   Shared access shall be coordinated with contiguous lots and
designed to preserve the aesthetic benefits provided by the greenbelt areas.
Access at the side or rear of buildings is encouraged;
         (c)   New access points onto the major and minor arterials within the
corridor overlay zone shall be coordinated with existing access points whenever
possible and approved by the County Highway Engineer;
         (d)   Cross-access easements shall be required between adjacent
compatible developments:
            (1)   No curb cuts shall be within 150 feet of any intersection of
public roads;
            (2)   Opposing curb cuts shall align squarely or be offset no less
than 125 feet; and
            (3)   Stub streets shall be built in all cases where adjacent lots
have reasonable potential for development.
         (e)   Entry Drive. The commercial entry drive should be appropriate to
the size of the development, incorporate signage, lighting, landscaping and set
the tone for the development; and
         (f)   No buildings or paved areas (other than access drives) may be
located closer than 50 feet to any area used or zoned for residential purposes.
      (4)   Parking layout.  Refer to §
7.5 for parking standards.
      (5)   Architectural design.  All commercial uses shall have building
walls with architectural features which increase visual interest, reduce
undifferentiated masses and relate to the human scale.  The design standards of
Section
7.18 shall not be applicable to industrial uses, specifically, large scale
distribution centers and manufacturing facilities.
         (a)   Facades.  Facades shall have a defined base or foundation, a
middle or modulated wall and a top formed by a pitched roof or articulated
cornice, in each instance appropriate to the building style.
         (b)   Continuous facades.  Buildings with continuous facades that are
90 feet or greater in width, shall be designed with offsets (projecting or
recessed) not less than two feet deep, and over intervals of not greater than
60 feet.
         (c)   Storefronts.  Ground floor retail shall be transparent for 75%
of the total ground level facade.
         (d)   Exterior materials.  Building facades may be constructed from
wood, stone, masonry, E.I.F.S., cement fiber board, split-face, textured
concrete, heavy gauge vinyl, metal or glass or other materials which provide
the same desired quality. Similar building materials should be used throughout
a development with multiple buildings. Products other than those listed below
must be approved by the Planning and Zoning Administrator or his or her duly
appointed designees.
            (1)   Buildings constructed of metal shall be permitted in the
agriculture and general industrial districts. Facades that exceed 50% metal
shall contain other design elements such as concrete or masonry bases, pitched
roofs, enhanced entries or color variation.
            (2)   Concrete finish or precast concrete panels shall be textured
using the following techniques: exposed aggregate, bush-hammered, sand blasted
or other concrete finish as approved by the Administrator or his or her duly
appointed designee. Concrete masonry units (CMU or block) shall be textured or
splitface, and otherwise not smooth.
            (3)   Office uses may also use architectural metal panels, glass
(up to 75% of the facade area) and ornamental metal.
         (e)   Roof design.  The materials and finishes for roofs shall
complement those materials used for the exterior walls. Roofs may be pitched,
use stepped parapet walls, three dimensional cornices, dimensioned or
integrally-textured materials, include architectural detailing such as
moldings, trims or variations in brick coursing or be sloped with overhangs and
brackets. Parapets shall not exceed more than one-third the height of the
supporting wall.
         (f)   Four-sided architecture.  The architectural style, materials,
color and design on the front elevation shall be applied to all elevations of
the structure adjacent to a public street, primary internal drive or
residential zoning district.
         (g)   Color.  Compatible materials and colors should be used
throughout to unify development. The colors should reflect natural tones of the
environment and be subtle, harmonious and non-reflective. Accents shall be
compatible.
         (h)   Entry features.  Entryway features are only required at the
primary entrance to the structure and shall include elements such as covered
entries, integral planters, awnings, raised corniced parapets over the door,
peaked roof forms having an average slope greater than or equal to a minimum
five to 12 pitch, arches or architectural details such as tile work and
moldings that are integrated into the building structure and design.
      (6)   Maintenance.  The exposed walls and roofs of buildings shall be
maintained in a clean, orderly and attractive condition, and be free of cracks,
dents, punctures, breakage and other forms of visible marring. Materials that
become excessively faded, chalked or otherwise deteriorated shall be
refinished, repainted or replaced.
      (7)   Screening.  Refuse and waste removal areas, loading berths, service
yards, storage yards and exterior work areas shall be screened from view with
fencing, walls or landscaping.
      (8)   Materials.  All accessory buildings shall be constructed with
materials that are similar and compatible with materials used in the principal
structure.
      (9)   Mechanical equipment screening.
         (a)   Roof-mounted equipment on exposed roofs shall be screened from
view. The appearance of roof screens shall be coordinated with the building to
maintain a unified appearance.
         (b)   All ground- and building-mounted mechanical and electrical
equipment shall be screened from view. The screens and enclosures shall be
treated as an integral element of the building’s appearance. Landscaping may be
used for this purpose.
         (c)   Ground-mounted, commercial-grade.
            (1)   Design.  The unit shall be screened by a masonry wall that
complements the architecture of the principal structure. Walls attached to the
principal structure shall be designed as an architecturally integrated part of
the principal structure. The wall shall be sufficient to dampen any noise
generated while the unit is in operation.
            (2)   Height.  The wall shall be equal to the height of the unit
plus two feet.
            (3)   Access.  The enclosure shall be accessed via an opaque gate.
            (4)   Orientation.  The gate shall not face a residential property
or a right-of-way within 50 feet.
            (5)   Setback.  All mechanical equipment shall be located a minimum
of 50 feet from the property line, and shall not be located within an
established or required front setback or in a required side setback.
      (10)   Signage standards.  Signage shall be designed to be an integral
part of the architectural and landscaping plans. The colors, materials and
style of signage shall be architecturally compatible and accentuate the
buildings and landscaping on the site. The colors, materials and lighting of
every sign shall be restrained and harmonious with the building and site to
which it principally relates. Signs shall be in conformance with §
7.7 of this ordinance unless otherwise specified below.
      (11)   Landscaping plan.
         (a)   Landscaping shall be in conformance with §
7.8 of this ordinance. Plans shall be prepared and submitted with the
development plan.
         (b)   Landscaping materials selected should be appropriate to local
growing and climatic conditions. Wherever appropriate, existing trees should be
conserved and integrated into the landscaping plan; credit toward required in-
kind landscaping may be given.
      (12)   Site amenities.  Site amenities provide attractive spaces and the
possibility of interaction. Site amenities such as patios, plazas, mini-parks,
squares, water features and public art should be incorporated in the required
open space for the development.
      (13)   Lighting.  Refer to §
7.15.
      (14)   Operational compatibility.  The Plan Commission may impose
conditions on the approval of a project including but not limited to:
         (a)   The placement of trash receptacles;
         (b)   Location of delivery and loading zones;
         (c)   Hours of refuse removal; and
         (d)   Hours of sign illumination.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009; Ord. 2015-08,
passed 5-26-2015; Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-12-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Open space standards/common area for multifamily development, see Title XV,
§
8.15
   Overlay Districts for additional design standards, see Title XV,
Chapter 6
§ 7.19  MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Intent.  The purpose of these manufactured home standards is to
identify the minimum requirements for the installation and use of manufactured
homes consistent with the requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-1106 and the intent of
this ordinance.
   (B)   General standards.  Applicable to the Manufactured Home Park District.
      (1)   Design standards.  Manufactured homes in a single-family
residential zoning district shall comply with the minimum development and
design standards of the residential zoning district as set forth in §
7.18.
      (2)   Storage space.  Each home shall have an enclosed, waterproof
storage space a minimum of 20 square feet, either as an accessory structure on
each home site, behind the skirting, or at a central storage facility.
      (3)   Emergency shelter.  Each development or manufactured home park
shall be equipped with a structure of adequate construction to provide shelter
for residents from tornados and other severe weather events. The shelter shall
be of sufficient size to accommodate a population equal to two and one-half
persons per home site present in the development.
      (4)   Entrances and interior roads.  All interior manufactured home park
streets shall either be dedicated to the public or be private drives. All
interior streets, whether dedicated to the public or private drives shall meet
the design and construction standards for public streets, including
intersections, sidewalks, street trees and the like provided by the city
unified development ordinance. If private streets are used, street easements
shall be substituted for the interior street right-of-way.
      (5)   Compliance verification.  Prior to the release of an improvement
location permit for construction of the manufactured home park, the following
shall be provided to the Planning and Zoning Administrator:
         (a)   Access.  A letter from the City Street Department, verifying the
approval of the design of access points to public streets;
         (b)   Sanitary sewer service.  A letter from Lebanon Utilities
verifying that adequate sanitary sewer service shall be available to the homes;
and
         (c)   Drainage.  A letter from City Drainage Board verifying drainage
approval for the site.
      (6)   Subdivision standards.  See
Chapter 8 for subdivision requirements.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.20  SINGLE-FAMILY TO MULTIFAMILY CONVERSION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Conversions.  These provisions shall apply in all zoning districts
whether the use is permitted, conditional, accessory or temporary. Various
conditional and permitted uses may also be subject to fencing and screening
regulations. A certificate of compliance (§
9.12) shall be required for all conversions from single- or two- family to
multifamily. Dwellings converted for use as more than a two-family dwelling
shall comply with the standards set forth for multifamily development in this
ordinance.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this ordinance to discourage the conversion of
existing dwellings originally designed for occupancy by two families or less to
occupancy by more than two families when the conversion is likely to lead to
overcrowding, lack of privacy, lack of sufficient light and air, unsafe or
unsanitary living conditions or inadequate provisions for off-street parking
and open space.
      (2)   Dwellings initially erected as single- or two-family dwellings may
be converted to provide occupancy for three or more units, up to five units,
subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Conversions to three or more units may only take place in a
district which permits that use;
         (b)   Only buildings erected more than 30 years before a conversion
may be converted to provide occupancy for three or more dwellings;
         (c)   Any new dwelling created by conversion shall be completely self-
contained (separate and individual kitchen and bathroom facilities) and shall
conform to all applicable provision portions of the city code, including
housing and building codes and fire safety and utility programs;
         (d)   Each dwelling unit shall have a total floor space of at least
500 square feet, plus an additional 150 square feet for each bedroom over one;
         (e)   No addition shall be made to a dwelling which increases either
the lot coverage of the building or the height of the building;
         (f)   Parking for converted dwellings shall be provided as required in
§
7.5 for multifamily units. Parking may only be located behind the converted
dwelling and shall be screened from any public street or adjacent residential
use according to the provisions in §
7.8; and
         (g)   In connection with the conversion, there shall be no evidence of
change in the building to indicate the extra dwelling units, except as may be
required by the aforementioned ordinances and programs; all fire escapes or
stairways leading to a second or higher floor shall be completely enclosed
within the converted building; and no dwelling shall be so converted unless in
connection therewith it be placed in a reasonable state of repair.
      (3)   In cases of question as to the applicability of these standards,
the proposed conversion shall be deemed a conditional use and placed before the
Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with §
9.5.
      (4)   Conversions from multifamily use to single-family may be eligible
for a waiver of fees.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 7.21  SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Gas/fueling stations and car washes.
      (1)   Fuel sales shall have no more than eight vehicle fueling
dispensers.
      (2)   Fuel sales shall be screened in accordance with the parking lot
landscaping standards cited in §
7.8.
      (3)   Fuel sales shall be limited to no more than one per block.
      (4)   Canopies shall have a maximum vertical clearance of 15 feet and
shall be architecturally compatible with the principal structure.
      (5)   Signage allowances shall be based on the linear feet of the
associated building/structure, not on the length of the canopy. All advertising
signage on the building, canopy, pumps, pump handles and the like shall count
toward the total permitted sign square footage.
      (6)   Illuminance under the canopy shall be no more than an average of 35
footcandles. Other lighting standards for gas stations shall be as specified in
§
7.15.
   (B)   Bed and breakfast.  Bed and breakfast inns shall be permitted in the
zoning districts indicated in
Chapter 4, provided they are compatible with the surrounding uses and adhere to
the following standards.
      (1)   A bed and breakfast shall be occupied as a residence by the
property owner.
      (2)   No exterior alteration to the structure shall be made which would
change the residential appearance of the building.
      (3)   The minimum total floor area of the principal residential structure
needed to establish a bed and breakfast use shall be 1,500 square feet. Each
bed and breakfast unit in excess of one shall require an additional 500 square
feet of total floor area.
      (4)   Dining and other facilities shall not be open to the public but
shall be exclusively for the use of the residents and registered bed and
breakfast guests.
      (5)   Where the bed and breakfast is located in a residential zone,
parking shall be located behind the bed and breakfast and shall be screened
according to the provisions of §
7.8.
   (C)   Parks and playgrounds.
      (1)   Applicability.  The following standards apply to active
recreational uses whether they stand alone or are accessory to another use.
      (2)   Special conditions.
         (a)   Special care shall be noted when locating specialty parks (such
as dog parks and skate parks) in residential areas.
         (b)   Neighborhood parks and pocket parks less than two acres in area
do not have to provide off-street parking.
      (3)   Accessibility standards.  Park buffering may incorporate pedestrian
access points where access in and out of the park would be beneficial to nearby
residents.
      (4)   Setback standards.
         (a)   Active recreational use.  No active recreational use (e.g.,
playing field, playground, swimming pool and the like) shall be located within
25 feet of any residential property line.
         (b)   Athletic structures.  Athletic structures other than buildings
(e.g., basketball goals, pools, tennis courts and the like) shall be no closer
than 100 feet to any property line or right-of-way.
      (5)   Lighting standards.  Lighted playing fields will be held to the
standards of §
7.15.
      (6)   Scoreboards and public address systems.  Scoreboards and public
address (PA) systems are prohibited on lots less than 75 acres nor are any
scoreboards or PA systems, or part thereof, allowed within 500 feet of private
residentially-owned or -used property.
   (D)   Cemetery.
      (1)   Fence and wall standards.  All cemeteries shall have a decorative
fence or wall around the perimeter which complies with the following standards:
         (a)   Minimum height.  Forty-eight inches;
         (b)   Maximum height.  Seventy-two inches;
         (c)   Prohibited materials.  Fencing shall not be chain-link; and
         (d)   Above maximum height.  Fences greater than 48 inches in height
shall be at least 50% open.
      (2)   Setback standards.
         (a)   Burial space.  Any burial space shall be set back at least 100
feet from the nearest existing or proposed easement or right-of-way for a:
            (1)   Railroad;
            (2)   Street;
            (3)   Road;
            (4)   Alley;
            (5)   Pipeline;
            (6)   Pole line; or
            (7)   Other public thoroughfare or utility.
         (b)   Structure.  Any permanent structure erected for the interment,
entombment or internment of human remains shall be set back at least 100 feet
from the nearest property line.
   (E)   Light and heavy manufacturing uses. The following is a non-exclusive
list of specific requirements for conditional uses as specified in each use
district that may be used in regulating such conditional use.
      (1)   Industrial use setbacks. All new structures and additions to
existing structures to increase manufacturing activity areas should be located
at least one hundred (200) feet from all property lines.
      (2)   Noise regulations.
         (a)   Loudspeakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
         (b)   All new industrial uses shall not create noise in excess of 50
decibels as measured at the property line and no objectionable noise due to
extreme frequency, beat frequency, intermittence or shrillness.
      (3)   Entrance regulations.
         (a)   All points of entrance or exit should be located no closer than
200 feet from the intersection of two arterial throroughfares, or no closer
than 100 feet from the intersection of arterial street and a local or collector
street.
         (b)   Truck parking areas, maneuvering lanes, and access ways to
public thoroughfares shall be designed to cause no interference with the safe
and convenient movement of automobile and pedestrian traffic on and adjacent to
the site. The site shall not be used for the storage of trucks, and truck
parking shall be limited to a time not to exceed 24 hours.
      (4)   Lighting regulations. No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and
shall in no way impair safe movement of traffic on any street or highway, and
no lighting shall shine directly on adjacent properties.
      (5)   Air pollution.
         (a)   All new industrial uses shall not create air pollution which
exceeds the following:
         (b)   No noxious odors, no noxious, toxic or corrosive gases or fumes.
         (c)   No smoke of a density in excess of Level 1 on State Ringlemann
Chart.
         (d)   No dust or other particulate matter emitted in excess of 0.85
pounds per 1,000 pounds of gases adjusted to 12% carbon dioxide.
         (e)   There shall be no surface or subsurface discharge or disposal of
any wastes, either liquid or in any form without prior approval from Lebanon
Utilities.
      (6)   (a)   Other conditions. Conditional uses are subject to all other
conditions recommended by the Plan Commission or imposed by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
         (b)   Supplementary conditions and safeguards. In granting any
conditional use, the Board of Zoning Appeals may prescribe additional
conditions and safeguards in conformity with this unified development
ordinance. Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of
the terms under which the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this unified development ordinance and punishable under
Chapter 10 hereof.
         (c)   Action by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Within 30 days after the
public hearing required in Chapter 9 hereof, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
approve, approve with supplementary conditions as specified in Section 9, or
disapprove the conditional use application as presented. If the application is
approved or approved with modifications, the Board shall direct the Planning
Director to issue a conditional use permit listing the specific conditions
specified by the Board for approval. If the application is disapproved by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, the applicant may seek relief through Boone County
Circuit or Superior Court.
         (d)   Expiration of conditional use permit. A conditional use permit
shall be deemed to authorize only one particular conditional use and the permit
shall automatically expire if, for any reason, the use shall cease for more
than one year.   
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2015-14, passed 11-10-2015)
§ 7.22  INFILL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Intent.  Infill development shall be considered to be new development,
redevelopment or expansion of existing legally conforming or legally
nonconforming uses that occurs in an area where at least 66% of all lots on
both sides of the same street block as the subject lot have been developed into
residential neighborhoods, whichever is applicable, and where infrastructure is
already in place. It is the general intent of this section to:
      (1)   Accommodate growth by encouraging and facilitating new development
on vacant, bypassed and underutilized land;
      (2)   Accommodate development in older, established residential
neighborhoods or neighborhoods platted under a previous zoning ordinance;
      (3)   Encourage efficient use of land and public services;
      (4)   Provide developers and property owners flexibility so that they can
achieve high quality design and develop infill projects that strengthen
existing neighborhoods; and
      (5)   Improve approval certainty for infill development by providing
clear infill development standards.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   A site plan (§
9.16), development plan (§
9.17) or minor plat (§
9.20) shall be required for infill/redevelopment where applicable.
      (2)   The development plan, site plan or minor plat shall incorporate the
following elements to enhance compatibility with the surrounding community:
         (a)   Sidewalks that connect to the adjacent sidewalk system;
         (b)   Public streets that connect to the adjacent street pattern;
         (c)   Preservation of architecturally significant structures whenever
feasible; and
         (d)   Setbacks, building envelopes, use and parking compatible with
surrounding community.
      (3)   All new buildings (except accessory structures) shall have the
primary entrance oriented to the street or public walkway, with direct,
accessible and convenient pedestrian connections.
      (4)   Major subdivision for residential or nonresidential use shall not
be allowed as infill development, and will be required to comply with
Chapter 8.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Generally.  Permitted uses shall be determined by the following
subsections.
      (2)   Residential areas.  Areas that are made up of predominantly
residential uses but no longer permit residential uses may fall under the
provisions of §
3.1(L)(2).
         (a)   One accessory apartment dwelling unit per lot may be allowed in
addition to the principal dwelling unit. Accessory apartment dwelling standards
can be found in §
7.10(C).
         (b)   Home occupations and home-based businesses are allowed in
accordance with §
7.12.
   (D)   Lot and development standards.  Density, design, materials, use and
scale should reflect style, heritage and materials unique to each neighborhood.
      (1)   Lot size.
         (a)   Generally.  Lot areas shall be dependent on proposed densities,
floor area ratios, setbacks, building heights and neighborhood compatibility.
         (b)   Existing small lot amnesty.  A legal lot of record that existed
prior to the date of this ordinance, and is being used for infill or
redevelopment may use the minimum lot standards that follow.
      (2)   Building height.
         (a)   Buildings shall conform to:
            (1)   Maximum heights allowed in the underlying zoning district in
accordance with
Table 4.2: Residential Districts Lot Standards; and
            (2)   A height that is equal to or the average of adjacent building
heights.
         (b)   If the proposed building height(s) is greater than the allowed
maximum, the proposed building or structure must meet the following criteria
for community compatibility:
            (1)   Neighborhood scale;
            (2)   Privacy;
            (3)   Light and shadow;
            (4)   Views; and
            (5)   Architectural compatibility.
      (3)   Setbacks.  Minimum setbacks shall be:
         (a)   As required in the underlying zoning district; or
         (b)   The average of the established front setbacks within the block
or 600 feet on both sides of the lot parallel to its frontage, whichever is
applicable.
      (4)   Bulk and scale.  Bulk and scale shall be similar to and consistent
with the surrounding neighborhood as evaluated by the bulk of buildings
adjacent, abutting and surrounding the proposed development. Larger buildings
should be designed to adhere to the existing architectural pattern of the
surrounding neighborhood.
      (5)   Flexible standards.  Flexible development standards to reduce lot
area, width, setbacks, height and other standards may be permitted for infill
and redevelopment at the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Administrator,
subject to proof of good cause and benefit to the development and community and
to address difficult sites which incorporate infill and redevelopment or
rehabilitation. Building height and coverage may vary so long as the project
average height is consistent with the neighborhood scale and architectural
rhythm and does not constitute a disruptive condition in the identity of the
area as described here or in subsection (E) below.
   (E)   Compatibility standards.  Infill and redevelopment should provide
exemplary site design, architectural design and high quality materials that are
compatible with, and does not negatively alter the character of, the existing
neighborhood. The applicant should refer to §
7.18.
      (1)   All infill and redevelopment uses shall meet the intent of this
section and shall be compatible with existing or proposed uses, as identified
in the comprehensive plan, in the general vicinity of the proposed development.
The following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Building size, height, bulk, mass, scale.  Similar in height and
size or articulated and subdivided into massing that is more or less
proportional to other structures in the area, and maintains the existing
architectural rhythm;
         (b)   Building orientation.  Primary facades and entries face the
adjacent street with a connecting walk-way that does not require pedestrians to
walk through parking lots or across driveways;
         (c)   Privacy.  Optimize privacy of residents and minimize
infringement on the privacy of adjoining land uses by considering the placement
of windows and door entrances. Create opportunities for interactions among
neighbors in common pedestrian circulation areas of the project, if applicable;
and
         (d)   Building materials.  Building materials shall be similar to
materials of the surrounding neighborhood or use other characteristics such as
scale, form, architectural detailing and the like to establish compatibility.
      (2)   All planned uses, building types and landscaping shall be included
on the development plan, site plan or minor plat and shall demonstrate the
relationship of the proposed development with existing off-site development in
the context of the adjacent community. Compliance with these requirements shall
in and of itself be deemed to create a presumption of compatibility.
   (F)   Open space and landscaping.  All open space, recreational amenities
and landscaped areas shall meet the requirements of §§
7.8 and
8.15 unless modified per this subsection, and shall be shown on the development
plan, site plan or minor plat.
      (1)   Open space.  Nonresidential and multifamily infill development
shall provide common public open space, if planned. An open space credit may be
granted if a project is connected to and located within one-fourth mile of an
improved public park or common area by a continuous public sidewalk.
      (2)   Landscaping.  Natural vegetative features and existing trees shall
be incorporated into the site design if practicable. Landscaping, buffering and
other plant material requirements may be reduced at the discretion of the
Planning and Zoning Administrator and approval of the Plan Commission. However,
the intent of the landscaping to enhance and create a hierarchy of space shall
remain. Buffering and screening of incompatible uses shall be maintained.
   (G)   Public facilities and utilities.
      (1)   Existing and planned public facilities should be shown on the
development plan, site plan or minor plat.
      (2)   All public streets, walkways and alleyways shall be shown on the
development plan, site plan or minor plat. All through streets and walkways
shall be public. The local street and walkway system shall be safe, efficient,
convenient, attractive and shall accommodate use by all segments of the
population.
         (a)   The street and walkway system shall provide multiple, direct and
continuous intra- and inter-neighborhood connections between destinations.
         (b)   The street network shall include sidewalks on both sides of the
street.
   (H)   Parking.  Flexibility for the number of parking spaces required by §
7.5 may be considered if the project is pedestrian-oriented and serviced within
600 feet by public parking.
      (1)   The parking plan may provide a combination of off-street and on-
street spaces. On-street parking is encouraged.
      (2)   Shared parking is encouraged and shall comply with §
7.5(I).
      (3)   As is practicable, at-grade off-street parking areas should be
located at the rear of dwellings in mixed-use or residential areas, with alley
access.
      (4)   Bicycle spaces shall be provided per §
7.5(K).
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-07, passed 7-28-2008)
CHAPTER 8:  SUBDIVISION OF LAND
Section
   
8.1   Types of subdivisions
   
8.2   General provisions for all subdivisions
   
8.3   Exemptions
   
8.4   Waivers
   
8.5   Land development principles
   
8.6   Standards for surveys and preparation of plats
   
8.7   Monuments and markers
   
8.8   Street standards
   
8.9   Pedestrian network standards
   
8.10   Block standards
   
8.11   Lot standards
   
8.12   Entrance and drive standards
   
8.13   Retention pond standards
   
8.14   Easement standards
   
8.15   Open space standards/common area
   
8.16   Utility standards
   
8.17   Common area maintenance or homeowner’s association
   
8.18   Development bonuses
§ 8.1  TYPES OF SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Standard residential.
      (1)   The standard subdivision is intended to be entirely residential.
      (2)   The subdivision shall:
         (a)   Conform to all development and design standards within
Chapter 7 and all subdivision standards within this chapter;
         (b)   Be permitted in the SF, SF1, SF2 and SF3 Zoning Districts;
         (c)   Have a lot and street layout that may be a grid or curvilinear
per §
8.8;
         (d)   Provide minimum required open space per §
8.15; and
         (e)   Have perimeter landscaping, mounding and/or fencing in a
designated common area or easement along all arterial and collector streets per
§
7.8.
   (B)   Conservation.
      (1)   Intent.  Conservation subdivisions are intended to allow greater
flexibility in the design and development of subdivisions, in order to produce
innovative residential environments, provide for more efficient use of land,
protect topographical features and permit common area and open space to
accomplish this purpose. Specifically a conservation subdivision provides for
the:
         (a)   Protection of unique topographical features on the site,
including, but not limited to, slopes, streams and natural water features;
         (b)   Protection and preservations of wooded areas, individual trees
of significant size, wetlands or other environmentally sensitive features;
         (c)   Development of common open space and recreational areas easily
accessible to residents of the subdivision including provisions for walkways
and bikeways;
         (d)   Provide a more efficient use of the land;
         (e)   Produce innovative residential environments; and
         (f)   Minimize the alteration of the natural site features to be
preserved through the design and situation of individual lots, streets and
buildings.
      (2)   Exceptions. Exceptions to the development standards relating to the
subdivision’s lot size, shape and dimensions may be permitted for individual
lots within a conservation subdivision, as follows.
         (a)   Project area (minimum size of subdivision).  There shall be a
minimum of five acres required for the development of a conservation or cluster
subdivision. The tract of land to be developed shall be in one ownership or
shall be the subject of an application filed by or on behalf of the owners of
the entire tract. The tract shall be developed as a unit and in the manner
approved.
         (b)   Project density.  The overall maximum density of the proposed
conservation subdivision shall remain the same as that permitted by developing
the same site area into developable lots in full compliance with the applicable
underlying zoning district regulations.
      (3)   Lot standards.
         (a)   Individual lots in a conservation subdivision are exempt from
the following development standards of the applicable residential zoning
classification:
            (1)   Minimum lot area;
            (2)   Minimum lot width; and
            (3)   Minimum lot width at setback.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yard setback regulations may be modified
as follows:
            (1)   Setback from any subdivision boundary property lines.  Twenty
feet;
            (2)   The minimum rear yard setback.  Fifteen feet; and
            (3)   The minimum side yard setback shall have a minimum depth in
accordance with the following regulations provided that a minimum distance of
15 feet is maintained between buildings on adjacent lots.
         (c)   Any plat of a subdivision submitted for plat approval may reduce
the minimum side yard requirement for one side yard of each lot to zero
provided that:
            (1)   A minimum distance of 15 feet shall be required and
maintained between all buildings on adjacent lots;
            (2)   No windows or doors shall be provided or maintained on that
portion of the structure which reduces the required side yard by use of this
exception; and
            (3)   An easement, providing for the continual maintenance of that
portion of the structure that reduces the required side yard by use of this
exception is provided, recorded and maintained.
         (d)   Minimum street frontage may be reduced to 15 feet; provided,
however, that each individual lot shall have direct access to a public street.
      (4)   Open space.
         (a)   Individual lots shall have a minimum open space of 50%.
         (b)   The amount of permanent open space created by the development of
the site as a conservation subdivision shall be equivalent to, or more than,
the total reduction in lot sizes. At least 75% of the total amount of open
space shall consist of tracts of land at least 50 feet wide.
         (c)   The permanent open space created by the development of the site
as a conservation subdivision shall be provided in a manner that it is
preserved in its naturally occurring state for passive recreational activities.
A subordinate amount of this permanent open space may be developed as a common
recreational area. The permanent open space created by the development of the
site as a conservation subdivision shall further be provided in a manner that
it is accessible to residents of the subdivision and for maintenance. The
permanent open space shall perpetually run with the subdivision and shall not
be developed or separated from the conservation subdivision at a later date.
Provisions shall be made for continuous and adequate maintenance at a
reasonable and nondiscriminatory rate of charge.
[Image]
 
   From Top to Bottom: An Existing Farm; Traditional Zoning; Cluster Zoning;
and a Conservation Subdivision
   (C)   Neo-traditional or traditional neighborhood.
      (1)   Intent. The intent of the traditional neighborhood subdivision type
is to establish standards which will promote the principles and objectives of
neo-traditional/new urbanist development in the Traditional Residential (TR)
zoning district and which encourages mixed-use, diverse, pedestrian- oriented
communities with a compact form.
      (2)   Street design standards.  Development subject to the requirements
of this section shall comply with the following standards.
         (a)   Accommodation of new streets.  Development shall be designed and
located to accommodate existing and proposed streets in accordance with the
Center Township thoroughfare plan and the city construction standards, as
amended.
         (b)   Grid network.  A street grid network is encouraged. In cases
where residential development has been organized around a grid street network,
measures to interrupt or terminate long vistas exceeding 1,200 feet in length
shall be employed to the maximum extent practicable. These measures shall
include, but shall not be limited to:
            (1)   Curvilinear street segments;
            (2)   Street jogs or off-sets designed to require vehicles to slow
their travel speed;
            (3)   Bumpouts;
            (4)   Terminated vistas; and
            (5)   Stop signs at street intersections.
         (c)   Design speed.  Alleys and local streets shall be designed for a
maximum speed not in excess of 25 mph. Street widths and curb return radii
shall be minimized to the maximum extent practicable.
         (d)   Traffic calming measures.  Minimal street widths, short block
lengths, on-street parking, controlled intersections, roundabouts and other
traffic calming measures shall be used on all local streets.
         (e)   Fronting onto streets.  The front facade shall be defined as
including the building’s primary entrance as determined by the entrance’s
function, scale and/or design detail.
         (f)   Internal street connectivity.  All streets shall be connected
unless determined to be or impracticable to achieve due to topographic
conditions, natural features or adjacent existing development patterns.
         (g)   Cul-de-sacs.
            (1)   Residential development.
               a.   Cul-de-sac streets shall be limited to a maximum of 15% of
the total road footage in a neo-traditional residential development.
               b.   Whenever cul-de-sac streets are created, at least one
eight-foot wide pedestrian access easement shall be provided, to the extent
practicable, between each cul-de-sac head or street
            (2)   Nonresidential and mixed-use development.  Cul-de-sacs
streets shall be limited to no more than 10% of the total road footage in a
nonresidential or mixed-use development.
            (3)   Cul-de-sac length.
               a.   Cul-de-sac streets shall not extend for more than 500 feet
as measured from the center of the cul-de-sac turn around to the nearest right-
of way boundary of the adjoining street right-of-way intersection.
               b.   In no case shall a cul-de-sac serve more than 20 lots in a
development.
            (4)   Termination.  Cul-de-sac streets shall terminate in a
circular turn around having a right-of-way radius of at least 60 feet, and a
paved turning radius of at least 50 feet. General provisions for standard
subdivisions can be found in §
8.2 of this ordinance.
         (h)   External street connectivity.
            (1)   Street rights-of-way shall be extended to or along adjoining
property boundaries so that a roadway connection or street stub shall be
provided for development or to undeveloped lands at least every 1,500 feet for
each direction (north, south, east and west) in which development abuts vacant
lands.
            (2)   At all locations where streets terminate with no street
connection, but a future connection is planned or accommodated, a sign shall be
installed at the location with the words “Future Road Connection” to inform
property owners.
         (i)   Alley access to individual lots.
            (1)   Alleys shall be provided along the rear property lines of
lots intended for new single-family detached and attached, townhouse and two-
to four-family dwellings when the lots:
               a.   Are part of a block face with an average lot width of 55
feet or less at the building setback line (excluding lots on cul-de-sacs); or
               b.   Front a collector or arterial street (regardless of the
average lot width).
            (2)   Lots served by alleys in accordance with subsection (C)(2)(i)
(1) above shall access garages and/or off-street parking areas from the alley
as opposed to a street.
            (3)   Lots served by alleys in accordance with subsection (C)(2)(i)
(1) above shall not have driveways in front or corner side yard areas.
         (j)   Limited access to collector streets.  Unless no alternative
means of access exists, such as alleys or parallel access streets, and it is
unreasonable or impractical to require an alternative means of access, direct
driveway access to collector streets shall be limited to lots containing
multiple family dwellings, commercial and industrial and related uses.
         (k)   Block design.
            (1)   Block length.  The average block length in a development
shall not exceed 600 linear feet between the right-of-way edges of intersecting
streets. Except in cases where environmental or topographic constraints exist,
or the property has an irregular shape, no individual block shall exceed a
maximum length of 800 linear feet.
            (2)   Block width.  To the maximum extent practicable, the width of
any block shall be sufficient to permit at least two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth for the zone district exclusive of any public alleys,
watercourses or other rights-of-way located outside platted lots.
         (l)   Sidewalks.
            (1)   Sidewalks shall comply with the construction standards
regardless of whether the street they serve is new or existing.
            (2)   In cases where the block length exceeds 800 linear feet,
sidewalks shall be provided mid-block if practicable to connect parallel
streets on the long side of the block.
            (3)   All required sidewalks shall connect with existing or planned
sidewalks at property boundaries.
            (4)   All multifamily, public and institutional, commercial and
industrial and related uses shall provide at least one improved internal
pedestrian access to connect all new buildings to existing or planned sidewalks
in the adjacent public right-of-way.
            (5)   Sidewalks shall not be required when:
               a.   A provided pedestrian pathway can serve the same function
as a sidewalk;
               b.   A provided pedestrian pathway internal to a block provides
access to each lot in the block; or
               c.   The Administrator determines it is impractical due to
environmental or topographical constraints.
   (D)   Multifamily and nonresidential (commercial, industrial).
      (1)   Intent.  The intent of the commercial subdivision guidelines is to
ensure the compatibility of the proposed project with the surrounding community
and to ensure an orderly and logical pattern of nonresidential development. Any
proposed subdivision containing land that is zoned or otherwise intended to be
used for commercial or industrial uses is subject to the development standards
contained in this section and in
Chapter 4 of this ordinance, in addition to those standards applying to all
subdivisions of land.
      (2)   Subdivision procedure.  The subdivider shall follow the procedure
for subdivisions provided in this ordinance.
         (a)   The subdivider may prepare a secondary (final) plat for only the
lots identified, and shall provide subsequent secondary (final) plats as
additional lots become necessary.
         (b)   All commercial and industrial primary plats shall expire five
years from the date of approval by the Plan Commission.
         (c)   Procedures for primary and secondary plats for subdivisions can
be found in §§
9.18 and
9.19.
      (3)   Subdivision layout.
         (a)   Where there is a single-tenant commercial building, the building
shall be oriented toward the primary abutting street. Buildings set back
greater than 100 feet from the right-of-way behind large expanses of parking
shall be avoided.
         (b)   Where there is more than one building in a commercial
development, commercial lots shall have frontage on interior streets or an
access road. Only individual developments shall have access on to public
streets and only then as permitted by the Common Council, County Highway
Department or State Department of Transportation.
         (c)   Buildings and structures shall be subject to the nonresidential
design standards in §
7.18.
         (d)   All principal and outlot buildings shall be arranged and grouped
so that the primary orientation frames the corner of an adjacent street
intersection, frames and encloses a “main or focal” street for pedestrian and/
or/vehicular access and frames and encloses parking areas.
         (e)   The layout of outlots shall relate to the public street as well
as the center of the commercial development.
            (1)   Outlots shall reinforce rather than obscure the identity and
function of a commercial development.
            (2)   To the extent possible, outlots shall be clustered together
to define street edges and entry points.
            (3)   Spaces between outlots shall be improved for pedestrian
travel with lighting, special paving, landscaping and other amenities.
      (4)   Nonresidential access and circulation standards.
         (a)   Vehicular.
            (1)   The number of traffic access points (curb or driveway cuts)
for establishments with 100 feet or less of frontage on a street shall not
exceed one.
            (2)   For establishments in the PBC, PBO, PBI, ID and IN zoning
districts with frontage of more than 200 feet, a service road shall be
provided, of not less than two lanes in width or a combined service/frontage
road and parking area, parallel with and adjacent to the street upon which the
establishments front. In the event that establishments front on more than one
street, service roads may be required on more than one street frontage.
            (3)   A service/frontage road or roads required by this section
shall be effectively separated from the main roadway by a corridor buffer
landscaped strip or other suitable delineation no less than 20-feet wide, and
shall be designed and arranged so as to provide the principal means of access
to abutting business establishments.
            (4)   In general, the use of public improved alleys, interior
access roads or any other designated means to minimize the number of traffic
access points in commercial areas are encouraged.
            (5)   Interconnectivity/cross-access easements shall be provided
between adjacent commercial or industrial lots. The easement shall be recorded
on the plan and is enforceable and binding.
            (6)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Plan Commission
with respect to streets, street access, curbs and sidewalk design and
construction.
            (7)   If access will be required for large trucks and/or heavy
loads, the Plan Commission may increase the construction and design
requirements. Roads serving primarily nonresidential traffic, especially truck
traffic, shall not normally be extended to the boundary of adjacent tracts used
or zoned for residential purposes.
         (b)   Pedestrian.
            (1)   Sidewalks in commercial areas shall be located on both sides
of a street and be a minimum six feet in width.
            (2)   Sidewalks in industrial areas shall be located on at least
one side of a street and be a minimum of five feet in width.
            (3)   Perimeter paths and sidewalks are required per the
transportation plan on all arterial, collector and local streets. Perimeter
multi-use paths shall be a minimum of eight feet wide.
            (4)   Sidewalks shall be provided along the full length of a
commercial retail facade with a pedestrian entrance and direct access to the
parking lot. The sidewalk shall be a minimum of eight feet in width.
            (5)   Internal pedestrian walkways in parking areas shall be
distinguished from driving surfaces through the use of durable, low maintenance
surface materials such as pavers, bricks or scored concrete.
         (c)   Alleys.  Alleys may be permitted by permission of the Plan
Commission to provide loading and service areas. The alleys shall have a right-
of-way width of at least 20 feet and a pavement width of at least 16 feet.
      (5)   Additional standards. The following items shall be addressed,
either through the lot design or through notations placed upon the plat.
         (a)   Loading docks and semi-truck parking.  Loading docks, semi-truck
parking and/or semi-truck turn-around areas shall be designated by the use of
signs and pavement markings. These areas shall be separated from parking and
access areas used by automobiles or pedestrian traffic. Public streets shall
not be used for semi-truck parking, standing or backing. The overnight parking
of semi-trucks shall not occur between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
except in designated areas of semi-truck travel centers (truck stops).
         (b)   Fire lanes.  Fire lanes shall be required at all entrances and
exits to structures and storage areas and at all locations of hydrants, Siamese
connections, sprinkler controls or other locations deemed appropriate by the
Plan Commission. Fire lanes shall be marked by signs and pavement markings in
accordance with current standards and specifications. Fire lanes shall be a
minimum width of 20 feet.
         (c)   Parking.
            (1)   Parking lots shall have a hard, dust-free surface and shall
be designed to provide safe, well-defined points of ingress and egress.
Alternative and innovative pavement surfaces considered to be best management
practice in stormwater design also shall be considered by the Plan Commission.
            (2)   The Commission shall require physical barriers, pavement
markings, signs and landscaping as it deems necessary to properly channel
traffic to designated parking entrances and exits.
            (3)   A maximum of 50% of the required off-street parking shall be
provided in the front yard. For every 10% increase over the maximum allowed
parking in the front yard, the interior landscaping requirements shall increase
by five feet.
         (d)   Snow storage.  Developments which have parking, loading and
driveway areas in excess of 40,000 square feet shall contain snow storage
areas. Drainage plans shall include plans for the disposal of melt water.
         (e)   Open space.
            (1)   Open space can enhance any development and be used by
customers and employees. Open space can be landscaped or hard surfaced such as
plazas and patios. The open space can contain planting, site furnishings, water
features or public art. Open space shall not include retention ponds, required
landscaping, sidewalks or designated parking areas.
            (2)   Open space shall be provided at the following rates according
to land use:
 
Table 8.1: Percentage Open Space Required (Nonresidential)
Subdivision Type   Percentage Usable Open Space Required
Commercial office  2%
Commercial retail  5%
Planned industrial 2%
 
         (f)   Drainage.
            (1)   A drainage plan shall be submitted meeting the specifications
of §
9.17.
            (2)   a.   The system shall be designed so as to maximize the
disposal of stormwater into the storm sewer system. The system may also make
maximum use of on-site retention ponds, as needed, to minimize the downstream
impact of drainage from the site.
               b.   Retention/detention pond sites, where possible, shall be
located in a visible location and incorporated as an amenity into the project.
         (g)   Water and sewer facilities.  The Plan Commission may impose
those requirements as it deems necessary on the installation of water and sewer
facilities.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Pedestrian network system, see Title XV, §
8.9
   Subdivision control procedures -general, see Title XV, §
9.18
   Subdivision control procedures - major subdivisions, see Title XV, §
9.19
   Subdivision control procedures -minor subdivisions, see Title XV, §
9.20
§ 8.2  GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR ALL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Intent.  The subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the
subdivided plat shall be subject to the control of the city pursuant to the
requirements of the city comprehensive plan for the orderly, planned, efficient
and economical development of the city. The subdivision of land shall be
permitted in all zoning districts.
   (B)   Subdivision defined.  The division of any lot for the purpose of sale,
transfer, gift or lease that results in the creation of one or more new
building sites shall be considered a subdivision and shall be subject to the
requirements of this
Chapter 8 and the subdivision control procedures within
Chapter 9.
   (C)   Division from parent tract.
      (1)   Major subdivision.
         (a)   No subdivision which results in the creation of more than four
lots from a parent tract, whether at the same time or over the course of time,
shall be considered under minor subdivision review, regardless of whether the
four lots are created through one subdivision or several subdivisions over
time.
         (b)   In any district, no more than one principal structure and its
customary accessory uses shall be located on a single lot; except that
principal structures designed and platted as a single unit under single
ownership and control, such as a multifamily residential project, business
shopping center or combined industrial operations, may be permissible on a
single lot under the terms of this ordinance.
      (2)   Minor subdivisions.  A minor subdivision shall be considered any
subdivision which results in the creation of four or fewer lots from a parent
tract, whether at the same time or over the course of time.
   (D)   Private agreements.  The following subdivision design standards shall
be required prior to the approval of any subdivision plat or development plan.
Additionally, these standards shall apply to planned unit developments unless
through the PUD District ordinance a design standard is waived or altered.
      (1)   This ordinance is not intended to supersede any easement, covenant
or any other private agreement or restriction; however, where the provisions of
this ordinance are more restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations
than the easement, covenant or other private agreement or restriction, the
requirements of this ordinance shall govern.
      (2)   Where the provisions of the easement, covenant or private agreement
or restriction impose duties and obligations that are more restrictive, or
higher standards than the requirement of these regulations, and the private
provisions are not inconsistent with this ordinance, then the private
provisions shall be supplemental to this ordinance. Private covenants may be
enforced at the discretion of the city.
      (3)   Where covenants or private agreements exist, the city may require
certification and signatures from the homeowner’s association or other property
owner prior to issuing a permit.
   (E)   Adequate public facilities.
      (1)   No annexation, initial zoning, rezoning or preliminary platting
shall be approved unless the Plan Commission determines that public facilities
will be adequate to support and service the area of the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   The applicant for a subdivision of land into 50 lots or greater
shall, at the request of the Plan Commission, submit sufficient information and
data in the form of a fiscal impact analysis on the proposed subdivision to
demonstrate the expected impact on and use of public facilities by possible
uses of the subdivision.
      (3)   Public facilities and services to be examined for adequacy will
include roads, sanitary sewer service, water service, schools and public safety
services.
   (F)   Developer responsibility.  The developer has the duty of compliance
with reasonable conditions laid down by the Plan Commission for design,
dedication, improvement and restrictive use of the land to conform to the
physical and economic development of the city and to the health, safety and
general welfare of the future lot owners in the subdivision and of the
community at large.
   (G)   Lebanon Construction Standards incorporated by reference.
      (1)   The Lebanon Construction Standards Manual, Ordinance 99-4 as
amended, herein referred to as the Lebanon Construction Standards, shall be in
full force and effect and are hereby incorporated herein by reference. The text
shall supersede drawings and images.
      (2)   Where discrepancies occur between the written text of this section
and the Lebanon Construction Standards, as amended, the Lebanon Construction
Standards with their respective notes shall supersede the written text of this
section.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision Control Procedures - Major Subdivisions, for procedures for
primary and secondary plats, see Title XV. §
9.19
§ 8.3  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following administrative subdivisions of land are exempt from this
chapter of the unified development ordinance subject to the specifications
described for each. All exempt divisions shall be recorded through metes-and-
bounds legal descriptions in the office of the County Recorder:
   (A)   Legal description correction.  A division of land for the transfer of
a tract or tracts to correct errors in an existing legal description, provided
that no additional building sites are created, and no additional public
improvements are required or created;
   (B)   Right-of-way acquisition.  A division of land for the federal, state
or local government to acquire right-of-way; and
   (C)   Transfer between adjoining property owners. A division of land for the
transfer of a tract or tracts between adjoining lots provided that:
      (1)   No additional building sites are created;
      (2)   No nonconforming lots are created; and
      (3)   No additional public improvements are required or created by the
subdivision.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.4  WAIVERS.
   (A)   General provisions.  Where the Plan Commission finds the following, it
may grant waivers from the subdivision standards as set forth and in accordance
to the procedures in §
9.24:
      (1)   Extraordinary hardships or practical difficulties may result from
strict compliance with these regulations; or
      (2)   The purposes and intent of these regulations may be served to a
greater extent by an alternative proposal.
   (B)   Conflict of authority.  No waiver of the provisions of this article
shall conflict with the powers and duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals. The
Board of Zoning Appeals does not have the authority to hear or grant requests
for waivers to the regulations of this article of the unified development
ordinance.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.5  LAND DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES.
   (A)   General.  The standards contained in this section shall apply to all
subdivisions. Subdivisions shall be designed with consideration given to the
topography of the land and other natural characteristics of the site and
surrounding property.
   (B)   Land suitability.  If the Commission finds that the property requested
to be subdivided is unsuitable for development because of flooding, topography,
inadequate water supply, inadequate sewage disposal or other conditions which
may endanger health, life or property, the Plan Commission shall not approve
the land for subdivision.
   (C)   Criteria.  As a minimum, the Plan Commission is empowered to approve
the subdivision of land only after it finds that the land meets the following
criteria.
      (1)   Steep slopes.  Each lot shall contain a contiguous land area so as
to provide a building site that is relatively stable. The soil survey of the
county shall be used to determine steep slopes.
      (2)   Water bodies.  Each lot shall contain a contiguous land area
providing a suitable building site which is at least 75% of the minimum lot
size established by the zoning ordinance. The remaining 25% of the required
minimum lot size may contain permanent or seasonal water bodies.
      (3)   Sewage disposal.  Each lot shall be connected to the public sewer
system.
      (4)   Water service.  Each lot shall be connected to the public water
system.
      (5)   Flood hazards.  Each lot will contain enough land which is not
located in a floodway as defined by the zoning ordinance to accommodate the
permitted use(s) of the property. The Plan Commission shall review all proposed
subdivisions to determine whether the subdivision lies in a flood-prone area,
as defined in
Chapter 11. If the Plan Commission finds the subdivision to be so located, the
Plan Commission shall forward pertinent plans and materials to the State
Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) for review and comment. The Plan
Commission may require appropriate changes and modifications in order to assure
the following: it is consistent with the need to minimize flood damages; all
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage; and
adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.6  STANDARDS FOR SURVEYS AND PREPARATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   All surveys shall be conducted and plats prepared in accordance with
the state survey standards adopted by the State Society of Professional Land
Surveyors and any amendments thereto. In the event of any difference between
the State Survey Standards and this article, the stricter requirement shall
apply.
   (B)   All plats submitted for approval shall be prepared by or under the
supervision of a professional land surveyor or professional engineer licensed
in compliance with the laws of the state. All drawings shall be neat, legible,
reproducible, reducible and drawn on a permanent material. Concept plans are
excluded.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.7  MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Placement.  Monuments and markers shall be placed so that the center
of the pipe or marked point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of
lines to be marked, and shall be set so that the top of the monument or marker
is level with the finished grade.
      (1)   Monuments shall be set:
         (a)   At the intersection of lines forming angles in the boundary of
the subdivision, provided that not more than eight monuments shall be required;
and
         (b)   At the intersection of street property lines. Not more than one
monument shall be required at an intersection.
      (2)   Markers shall be set:
         (a)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
         (b)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear;
         (c)   At all angles in property lines of lots; and
         (d)   At all other lot corners not established by a monument.
   (B)   Composition.  Monuments shall be of stone, pre-cast concrete or
concrete poured in place with minimum dimensions of four inches by four inches
by 30 inches, set vertically in place. They shall be marked on top with an iron
or copper dowel set flush with the top of the monument, or deeply scored on top
with a cross. Markers shall consist of iron pipes or steel bars at least 30
inches long, and not less than five-eighths inch in diameter.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.8  STREET STANDARDS.
   (A)   Intent.  The street and alley layout shall provide adequate vehicular
and pedestrian access to all lots and parcels of land within the subdivision.
Streets shall conform to the following principles and standards and the Lebanon
Construction Standards, as amended.
   (B)   Specification standards incorporated by reference.  The Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and Maintenance, latest issue,
of the State Highway Commission of the state, shall be in full force and effect
and are hereby incorporated herein by reference. The text shall supersede
drawings and images. References within this section refer to the publication,
referred to hereinafter as Standard Specifications.
   (C)   General layout.
      (1)   Gradient.  Proposed streets shall be sited to conform to the
contour of the land as best as possible so as to produce usable lots and
streets of reasonable gradient.
      (2)   Interconnectivity.
         (a)   Generally.  Residential street systems shall be designed to
maximize vehicular connections. Wherever possible, proposed streets shall be
extended to the boundary line of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide
for normal circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
         (b)   Street interconnectivity.  In all developments there shall be a
plan for vehicular connections into undeveloped tracts or parcels of land.
Streets designed for future extensions shall have public rights-of-way platted
to the developer’s property line so as not to create future right-of-way
takings or purchases upon extension. A barricade shall be constructed on the
extension to prevent accidental passage into undeveloped areas. Refer to the
Center Township thoroughfare plan.
      (3)   Extension of adjacent streets.  Wherever there exists a dedicated
or platted portion of a street or alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision,
the remainder of the street or alley to the prescribed width shall be platted
within the proposed subdivision.
      (4)   Access to primary circulation system.  Residential street patterns
shall provide reasonable direct access to the primary circulation system.
Residential driveways within subdivisions shall access an internal approved
street network. No driveway access to individual lots within major residential
subdivisions shall be permitted from arterial streets.
      (5)   Conflict with efficiency of bordering arterial routes.  Local
circulation systems and land development patterns shall not conflict with the
efficiency of bordering arterial routes.
      (6)   Right-of-way widths.  Widths of arterial, collector and local
streets shall conform to the widths set forth in the thoroughfare plan. In
subdivisions that adjoin or include existing streets that do not conform to the
minimum right-of-way dimensions as established by the thoroughfare plan, the
subdivider shall dedicate additional width along either one or both sides of
the streets of inadequate width so as to be in conformance, provided the area
to be used for widening is owned by the subdivider or under his or her control.
   (D)   Street geometry.
      (1)   Intersection of centerlines.  The centerlines of streets should
intersect as nearly as possible at right angles. An oblique street should be
curved approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right angles
for at least 100 feet prior to the intersection.
      (2)   Property line corners at intersections of streets and alleys.  At
intersections of streets and alleys, property line corners shall be rounded by
arcs of at least a 15 feet radii or by chords of the arcs.
      (3)   Property line corners at intersections of streets.  At
intersections of local or collector streets, the minimum curb return radius
shall be 20 feet. The desirable radius is 25 to 30 feet. The minimum curb
radius on arterial streets and in the PBI and ID Districts shall be 30 feet,
except where traffic conditions warrant a smaller radius.
      (4)   Increase in radius of intersection arc.  If the smaller angle of
intersection of two streets is less than 60 degrees, the radius of the arc at
the intersection of property lines shall be increased as deemed advisable by
the Plan Commission.
      (5)   Intersection of more than two streets at one point.  Intersections
of more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
      (6)   Minimum centerline offsets for street jogs.  Street centerline
offsets of less than 125 feet shall not be permitted.
      (7)   Specific street standards.
         (a)   Centerline minimum radius.  Curvature measure along the
centerline shall have a minimum radius as follows:
 
Local streets       100 feet
Minor arterials     300 feet
Principal arterials 500 feet
Urban collectors    200 feet
 
         (b)   Tangent between reverse curves.  Between reverse curves on
arterial streets, there shall be a tangent of not less than 100 feet; and on
feeder and residential streets, the tangent shall be not less than 40 feet.
         (c)   Maximum grades of streets.  Maximum grades for streets shall be
as follows:
            (1)   Principal and minor arterials, not greater than 6%; and
            (2)   Urban collectors, local streets and alleys, not greater than
8%.
   (E)   Street construction standards.
      (1)   Construction and materials.
         (a)   Streets (and alleys where provided) shall be completed to grades
shown on plans, profiles and cross-sections, provided by the subdivider,
prepared by a registered professional engineer and approved by the Commission.
         (b)   The street shall be graded, surfaced and improved to the
dimensions required by the cross-sections, and the work shall be performed in
the manner prescribed in the Standards Specifications.
         (c)   The street surface shall be of portland cement concrete or a
flexible pavement, such as asphalt, and shall be constructed in accordance with
design characteristics at least equal to those given below. Pervious concrete
surfaces may also be used upon approval by the Administrator and the TAC.
            (1)   Rigid type pavement (plain cement concrete).
               a.   Minimum design characteristics shall be as follows:
 
Table 8.2: Pavement Design Characteristics
                         Principal and Minor Urban Collectors Local Streets and
                         Arterials                            Alleys
Controlled wheel load    11,000 lbs.         8,000 lbs.       6,000 lbs.
Concrete*
   Thickness          8 inches            7.5 inches       6 inches
   Granular leveling- 3 inches            3 inches         3 inches
base
* Uniform design (plain cement concrete: 550 psi or 6 bag concrete)
 
               b.   Subgrade shall be moist but not muddy at the time the
concrete is placed. If required, it shall be saturated with water the previous
night or not less than six hours prior to the concrete placement. If it
subsequently becomes too dry just prior to placing concrete, it shall be
sprinkled, but the method of sprinkling shall be so that mud or pools of water
will not be formed. Plain cement concrete pavement shall be in accordance with
the Standard Specifications, or any subsequent amendments thereto.
               c.   Materials shall comply with the Standard Specifications or
any subsequent amendments thereto. Size No. 2 (U) coarse aggregate will not be
required. Cement content shall be six bags per cubic yard of concrete mixture.
Concrete shall be machine finished except on widened portions, intersections or
other places where hand finishing will be permitted if authorized.
               d.   Weakened plane or dummy transverse contraction joints shall
be placed, not to exceed 20-foot spacing. Transverse contraction joints may be
either formed or sawed dummy groove, ribbon or pre-molded strip type. When
transverse joints are to be formed by sawing, care must be taken to saw the
grooves soon after placing the concrete to prevent the formation of cracks due
to contraction of the slab. All transverse joints shall be sawed eight hours
after the placing of the concrete unless authorization is given for sawing at a
later time. One of the above named joints shall be placed at every catch basin
and manhole in line of pavement. The location of manholes and the like in the
pavement shall determine the exact location of joints. All joints must extend
throughout side strips to full width of pavement. Dowel bars will not be
required except where shown on the plans. Transverse expansion joints, with
approved dowel bar assembly, shall be placed at intersections and where shown
on the plans. Whenever the width between forms of the pavement under
construction is greater than 13 feet, longitudinal joints shall be constructed
so as to divide the pavement into strips not to exceed 13 feet each. This may
be accomplished by constructing a slot or groove as herein described for dummy
contraction joints, or by a deformed metal key plate installed prior to the
depositing of the concrete. Finishing machines or vibrating strike boards of
design other than as specified in the Standard Specification will be permitted
only if work of equal quality as set out in these specifications is obtained.
               e.   Curing with approved impervious membrane or sealing
compounds will be permitted, if authorized.
            (2)   Flexible type pavement (asphaltic surface).
               a.   Minimum design characteristics.  Minimum design
characteristics shall be as follows:
 
Table 8.3: Flexible Type Pavement Characteristics
                      Principal and Minor Urban Collectors Local Streets and
                      Arterials                            Alleys
Binder - course       3 inches            2 inches         2 inches
Bitunimous - base     12 inches           12 inches        10 inches
Controlled wheel load 11,000 pounds       8,000 pounds     6,000 pounds
Granular - leveling   6 inches            1 inch           1 inch
base
Surface - course      1 inch              1 inch           1 inch
 
               b.   Subbase material.  Subbase material shall meet the
requirement for granular base below. Construction shall follow the procedure
specified in the Standard Specifications, or any subsequent amendments thereto.
Special subbase drainage in areas of cuts and swales shall be as set out in the
satisfactory plans and specifications.
               c.   Granular base courses.  Granular base courses shall be of
waterbound macadam base materials and methods conforming to the requirements of
the Standard Specifications, or any subsequent amendments thereto.
               d.   Bituminous base courses.  Bituminous base courses shall
confirm to the requirements of the Standard Specifications.
               e.   Surface courses.  Surface courses shall consist of a
surface and a binder as set out below. Material and method shall conform to
cited standards below.
               f.   Binder course. Material and methods shall conform to the
requirements of the Standard Specifications, or any subsequent amendments
thereto.
               g.   Surface course.  Material and methods shall conform to the
requirements of the Standard Specifications, or any subsequent amendments
thereto.
         (d)   The subgrade shall be prepared in compliance with the Standard
Specifications or any subsequent amendments thereto.
      (2)   Subsurface drainage.
         (a)   Generally.  Prior to placing the street and all surfaces,
adequate subsurface drainage for the street shall be provided by the
subdivider. Subsurface drainage pipe, when required, shall be aluminum or
coated corrugated pipe or a similar type not less than 12 inches in diameter
approved by the Commission.
         (b)   As-builts.  Upon the completion of the street and alley
improvement, plans and profiles as built shall be filed with the Commission.
(See §
9.22.)
      (3)   Shoulders, side slopes and ditches.
         (a)   All shoulders, side slopes and ditches shall be prepared in
accordance with the Standard Specifications or any subsequent amendments
thereto, and construction plans required to be submitted by the applicant.
         (b)   All shoulders, side slopes and ditches shall be protected from
erosion by various erosion control materials, such as groundcover or native
grasses, which slow the velocity of and filter runoff, as set forth in the
Standard Specifications, and are shown on the erosion control plan, which plan
shall be a part of the required construction plans to be submitted by the
applicant as part of the plat or development plan. The use of sod which
requires mowing and chemical applications should be avoided.
         (c)   Side slopes having a grade in excess of two to one shall be
protected by accepted erosion control materials in accordance with the Standard
Specifications, as amended, or as requested by the TAC or the Administrator, as
required on the construction plans to be submitted by the applicant.
         (d)   Ditches having a grade of or in excess of 3% shall have a gutter
consisting of vegetative material. Refer to the Lebanon Construction Standards
for further details.
      (4)   Intersection visibility.
         (a)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility
on all streets must be maintained along the centerlines as follows:
 
Minor arterials                    300 feet
Principal arterials                500 feet
Urban collectors and local streets 150 feet
 
         (b)   The following shall be required as a provision of the
restrictive covenants of all secondary plats to which they apply.
            (1)   No sign, fence, wall, hedge, tree or shrub planting which
obstructs sight lines and elevations between three and nine feet above the
street shall be placed or permitted to remain on any corner lot within the
sight visibility triangle as per §
7.2.
            (2)   The same sight line limitations shall apply to any lot within
ten feet of the intersection of a street right-of-way line with the edge of the
driveway pavement or alley line.
            (3)   No driveway shall be located within 75 feet of the
intersection of two street lines.
   (F)   Curb and gutter.
      (1)   General requirements.  Poured concrete curbs and gutters shall be
provided on all streets designed as an urban cross-section, and on any other
street as specifically required by the Plan Commission at the time of primary
plat review. Street side swales for stormwater drainage may be used in rural
road cross-sections and with approved conservation/cluster subdivision
development.
      (2)   Curb locations.  Where curbs are required, they shall be installed
on each side of the street surface and are to be considered as part of the
street.
      (3)   Curb design.  The curb and gutter shall be of one of the
construction types shown in the Lebanon Construction Standards, and as approved
by the Plan Commission, and shall be constructed according to the following
specifications.
         (a)   Base.  The base for the curb and gutter shall be well-compacted
on the existing base or grade.
         (b)   Minimum specifications.  The minimum specifications shall be as
shown in the Lebanon Construction Standards.
         (c)   Gutters and curbs.  All gutters and curbs shall be constructed
in conformance with the Lebanon Construction Standards.
         (d)   Gutter grade requirements.  The minimum grade of any street
gutter shall not be less than 0.6%.
         (e)   Additional inlets.  Additional inlets shall be required when
encroachment of stormwater into the street will disrupt traffic under the ten-
year storm design.
         (f)   Inlet grates.  Inlet grates should be depressed slightly below
the plane of the gutter to improve removal of runoff water. Inlet grates shall
be heavy-duty type and appropriate for bicycle traffic.
      (4)   Not permitted.  Extruded, non-integral asphalt curb shall not be
permitted on streets.
   (G)   Private streets.  The use of any private street is specifically
discouraged.
      (1)   Construction standards.  All private streets shall comply with all
city standards for public street construction. This shall include, but not be
limited to, sidewalks, street trees, pavement width and construction standards
and drainage.
      (2)   Width.  All private streets shall be included in an easement of
width equal to the right-of- way that would be required if the street were
public. This easement shall not be counted as a part of any lot for the purpose
of that lot meeting the minimum size requirements for the district in which it
is located.
      (3)   Gates.  Gates to private streets shall be permitted only when the
following criteria are met.
         (a)   Public pedestrian and bike access to and through the site must
be provided without obstruction.
         (b)   Minimum of 60 feet of stacking area shall be provided outside
the gate. Stacking area cannot be within the right-of-way of a street
designated in the Center Township thoroughfare plan.
         (c)   Turnaround area with adequate turning radius must be provided to
the design specifications of a passenger vehicle. Turnaround and gate must be
located outside of the right-of-way.
         (d)   School bus pick-up area must be provided.
         (e)   Gate and associated structures must be of high quality materials
and construction.
         (f)   Emergency response access to the development must be provided
and approved by all city public safety departments.
         (g)   Access to other city or county departments must be provided for
official business, including but not limited to building inspections, code
enforcement inspections and inspections for tax assessment purposes.
         (h)   Power must be supplied to the gates at all times.
   (H)   Street names.  The Plan Commission shall approve all road names at the
time of primary plat/preliminary plan approval. No street names may be used
which will duplicate, or be confused with, the names of existing streets,
unless for special reasons to be considered as exceptions by the Commission.
The streets which are logical extensions or continuations of, or obviously in
alignment with, any existing streets, either constructed or appearing on any
validly recorded plat, shall bear the names of the existing streets. The
approved street names shall not be changed unless the same are submitted to the
Plan Commission and approved by this Commission in an open public meeting.
   (I)   Cul-de-sacs.
      (1)   All cul-de-sacs shall terminate in a circular right-of-way with a
minimum diameter as set forth below and in the Lebanon Construction Standards,
or other arrangement for the turning of all vehicles conveniently within the
right-of-way.
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 600 feet in length measured along the
centerline from its intersection with the centerline of another street to the
center of the turn-around right-of-way.
      (3)   The minimum pavement and right-of-way radius and other design
features of all cul-de-sacs shall be consistent with
Table 8.4: Cul-de-sac Design Standards.
      (4)   The minimum radius of a cul-de-sac street shall be as specified in
the table below.
      (5)   Parking shall not be permitted on a cul-de-sac with a pavement
radius of 50 feet or less.
Table 8.4: Cul-de-sac Design Standards
Design Standard            Residential Street Nonresidential Street
(all measurements in feet) Urban Rural        Urban Rural
Table 8.4: Cul-de-sac Design Standards
Design Standard            Residential Street      Nonresidential Street
(all measurements in feet) Urban           Rural   Urban           Rural
Curb requirement           Vertical/rolled         Vertical/rolled
Maximum grade              7%              7%      5%              5%
Minimum grade              0.6%            0.6%    0.6%            0.6%
Right-of-way radius        60              60      60              60
Sidewalk width             1- and 2-family: 5 feet Commercial: 6 feet
                           Multifamily: 5 feet     Industrial: 5 feet
Street pavement radius     50              50      50              50
Street/sidewalk separation 5 foot min.             5 foot min.
 
   (J)   Frontage/service road.  Where a subdivision borders on, or contains an
existing or proposed interstate or other limited access highway or arterial
road as shown on the thoroughfare plan or a railroad right-of-way, the Plan
Commission may require a street approximately parallel to, and on each side of
the right-of-way, at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of the
intervening land.
      (1)   The distances shall be determined with due regard for the
requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may require that the intervening land strips be
dedicated to the city or to a lot owner’s association for the subdivision in
which they are located.
   (K)   Half streets.  Half streets shall be prohibited. Wherever a half
street is adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street
shall be planned within the tract.
   (L)   Dead-end streets.  The arrangement of streets shall provide for the
continuation of streets between adjacent properties when a street is proposed
to be and should logically be extended but is not yet constructed. An adequate
easement for turn-around shall be provided for any temporary deadend street
which extends 150 feet or more in length. A barricade and signs indicating
“Dead End” shall be erected at the terminus of the street. The easement shall
be automatically vacated to abutting property owners when the dead-ended street
is legally extended.
   (M)   Bicycle lanes.
      (1)   All street designs shall consider any applicable bike lane
requirements.
      (2)   Where bike lanes are required they shall be designed consistent
with AASHTO standards and the requirements of the City Street Department.
         (a)   The minimum width for a two-way off-street path shall be eight
feet.
         (b)   On-street bike facilities shall be one-way paths, moving with
the direction of traffic on the street. The minimum width for a one-way path
shall be four feet.
   (N)   Street lights.  Street lights shall be provided in subdivisions at
locations determined by the City Utilities Service Board. The subdivider shall
be responsible for the initial purchase and installation of all lights.
      (1)   Placement.  Street lighting shall be provided at all intersections
of streets within, and adjacent to, the subdivision and elsewhere as deemed
appropriate by the Planning and Zoning Administrator and Lebanon Utilities.
Street lights shall be located in the right-of-way, adjacent to the street.
      (2)   Mounting standards.  Street lights in residential subdivisions
shall be pole-mounted on standards of non-corrosive metal, fiberglass or wood
not to exceed 15 feet in height. Nonresidential subdivision street lights shall
not exceed 25 feet in height.
      (3)   Foundations.  Light standards shall be mounted in appropriate
concrete foundations.
      (4)   Decorative lighting.  The use of decorative street lighting shall
be encouraged.
   (O)   Street identification signs.
      (1)   Street regulatory signs shall be per MUTCD standards or as approved
by the City Street Department.
      (2)   The subdivider shall provide street signs at the intersection of
all streets. The location and type of sign shall meet the approval of the City
Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.9  PEDESTRIAN NETWORK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Sidewalk layout.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   Generally.  Sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of all
streets. Sidewalks shall completely encircle the turn-around of any cul-de-sac.
         (b)   Exception.  Sidewalks need only be provided on one side of a
frontage road adjacent to the developed parcels.
      (2)   Width.  Sidewalks in single-family, two-family or multifamily
housing developments shall be a minimum of five feet in width. Sidewalks in
commercial areas shall be a minimum six feet in width, and sidewalks in
industrial areas shall be a minimum of five feet in width.
      (3)   Street/sidewalk separation.  Where possible, sidewalks shall be
separated from the back of curb of the adjacent road by a minimum width of five
feet. All areas between the back-of-curb and sidewalk, that are not used for
accessing individual properties from the street, shall be planted and
maintained landscaped areas.
      (4)   Pedestrian/multi-use paths.  Pedestrian paths, when provided, shall
be a minimum of eight feet in width. They shall be constructed of four-inch
thick asphalt on an appropriately compacted base and shall meet any additional
requirements in the Lebanon Construction Standards.
      (5)   Transitions.  Sidewalk width transitions shall occur only at street
intersections. The widest required sidewalk shall be provided for the entire
length of the block, regardless of the use of individual lots.
      (6)   Slope.  The surface of any sidewalk, when completed, shall have a
sufficient slope to drain adequately and as specified in the Lebanon
Construction Standards.
   (B)   Sidewalk construction.  Sidewalks and pedestrian paths shall be
constructed consistent with the following requirements.
      (1)   Sidewalks.  Sidewalks shall be constructed of portland cement
concrete within subdivisions in accordance with the standards of the Lebanon
Construction Standards.
         (a)   Joints.  Contraction joints shall be provided a maximum of every
six feet, and expansion joints shall be provided for every 48 feet of sidewalk
length.
         (b)   Thickness.  Sidewalks shall be a minimum of four inches thick in
all locations with a four-inch base of either compacted stone or sand. In
instances where sidewalks are crossed by driveways, the sidewalks shall have a
minimum thickness of six inches.
      (2)   Pervious pavement.  Pervious pavement type construction for
sidewalks and paths may be allowed upon approval from the City Civil Engineer.
   (C)   Sidewalk ADA compliance.  It is the legal responsibility of the
developer to assure compliance with the current American with Disabilities Act
(ADA), as amended.
      (1)   The developer and/or his or her engineer shall certify compliance
with ADA standards to the City Street Department at the time the public
improvements are accepted by the city.
      (2)   Rolled curbs are not a substitute for wheelchair ramps and shall
not be considered to meet ADA requirements.
      (3)   Ramps are to be located at all intersections, driveways and other
transition access points.
      (4)   Ramps shall be constructed using truncated domes or other
techniques as specified in the Lebanon Construction Standards.
   (D)   Crosswalks.  Where a sidewalk or pedestrian path crosses a street
within or adjacent to a subdivision, safety devices such as painted crosswalks,
alternative cross-walk pavement types, crosswalk signs, traffic calming
measures or traffic control devices shall be installed. All crosswalk
treatments shall be subject to the approval of the City Street Department.
   (E)   Use of easements.  Easements of at least ten feet in width shall be
provided for sidewalks that, due to topography or other site features, are not
completely included in public right-of-way adjacent to a street. Sidewalks and
pedestrian paths that link common areas, public sites or natural features as
part of any subdivision’s open space design shall be included as subdivision
common area or easement on private property.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.10  BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Block length and width or acreage within bounding streets shall be
such as to accommodate the size of lot required in the area by the zoning code
and to provide for convenient access, circulation control and safety of street
traffic. Blocks that are unreasonably large or small will not be approved.
   (B)   The maximum block length shall be 1,200 feet or no more than 12 times
the lot width permitted in the applicable zoning district, whichever is
shorter. Block length shall be measured as the distance between intersecting
streets.
   (C)   Residential blocks shall be of sufficient depth to accommodate two 
tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where reverse or double frontage lots
bordering a freeway, arterial street or floodplain are used.
   (D)   In the design of blocks longer than 800 feet, the Commission may
specify the provision of pedestrian crosswalks near the center, or wherever
most useful to facilitate pedestrians circulation, utilities or drainage.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.11  LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   General lot standards.
      (1)   Subdivision lots shall be adequate for the type of development and
land use proposed, and shall be in conformity with this ordinance.
      (2)   The lot size, width, depth and shape, grade location and
orientation shall be in proper relation to street and block design and to
existing and proposed topographical conditions.
      (3)   All lots shall abut on a street.
   (B)   Street access.  Lots should not, in general, derive access exclusively
from an arterial or collector street. Where several adjoining lots are designed
with access from an arterial or collector street, the Plan Commission may
require the use of shared driveways or a frontage road for those lots. The use
of shared drives is specifically encouraged where nonresidential uses access an
arterial or collector street. The street access of individual lots shall be
restricted as follows.
      (1)   Collector and arterial streets.  Lots in all developments shall
generally be designed so as to prevent vehicles from having to back into any
collector or arterial street.
      (2)   Local streets.  All nonresidential lots (including multifamily
residential lots) shall generally be designed so as to prevent vehicles from
having to back into any public street.
   (C)   Side lines.  Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles
to straight streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from
this rule is permissible, but pointed or very irregular lots shall be avoided.
   (D)   Depth to width ratio.  The depth to width ratio of any single-family
residential lot shall not be greater than three to one.
   (E)   Common area.  An association of lot owners in the subdivision shall be
responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of any common area including, but
not limited to, landscaping, ponds, walkways and play areas.
   (F)   Multiple frontage lots.  Corner lots, through lots and other lots that
have frontage on more than one street shall be required to provide front yard
setbacks on all frontages, and shall be designed with adequate size and width
to accommodate the required setbacks and to provide adequate buildable area.
   (G)   Lot orientation.  The lot line common to the street right-of-way shall
be the front line. All lots shall face the front line and a similar line across
the street. Wherever feasible, lots shall be arranged so that the rear lot line
does not abut the side line of an adjacent lot.
   (H)   Lot numbering.  Lots shall be numbered consecutively throughout the
entire subdivision and shall be consistent with any phasing that may be planned
for the development.
   (I)   Lots abutting a watercourse.  Lots abutting a watercourse, drainage
way, channel, stream or floodplain shall be setback a minimum of 15 feet from
the top of bank in order to provide adequate access for public safety,
personnel and equipment and for maintenance.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.12  ENTRANCE AND DRIVE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Intent.  The purpose of these entrance and drive standards is to
provide for a safe and efficient vehicular and pedestrian transportation system
by establishing minimum standards for site entrances, driveways and interior
drives.
   (B)   General entrance/drive standards.  These standards are applicable to
all zoning districts. All driveways and interior drives shall conform to the
following design requirements.
      (1)   Entrance widths.  No entrance shall exceed the following pavement
widths at the point which it intersect the public right-of-way. The distances
for these standards shall be determined by measuring from the outside edges of
the curb or pavement (whichever is more) of the entrance or drive at the public
right-of-way which it accesses, and shall not include any acceleration or
deceleration lanes or turning radii.
         (a)   Fourteen feet per lane (exclusive of any medians) if from a
nonresidential or multifamily residential use onto any type of street;
         (b)   Twenty-four feet total if from a single-family or two-family use
onto any type of street; and
         (c)   The maximum driveway width shall not exceed 30 feet.
      (2)   Travel direction.  The direction of travel for vehicles using
entrances shall be as follows.
         (a)   All entrances providing access to a public right-of-way from all
lots used for purposes other than single- or two-family residences shall be
designed so that vehicles are traveling in a forward direction when entering
and leaving.
         (b)   In no case may any entrance for any use be designed to require a
vehicle to back onto any arterial or collector street.
      (3)   Shared entrances and drives.  Shared entrances and drives are
encouraged for all uses in all zoning districts, specifically for any
multifamily residential or nonresidential uses accessing a major collector or
arterial street.
         (a)   Access easements.  All shared entrances and drives shall be
shall be constructed only in appropriate access easements which easements must
be recorded before usage commences.
         (b)   Required documentation.  A permanent documentation of any shared
entrance and drive agreement must be signed by all involved property owners.
The permanent written agreement shall include, but is not limited to the
following items: maintenance, snow removal, ownership and liability. The
agreement, which can be amended and assigned shall be reviewed and approved by
the City Board of Works and duly recorded with the County Recorder. Any changes
to the agreements must be accomplished with the consent of the Administrator. A
copy of the agreement shall be retained for the files of the Plan Commission.
The agreement shall be recorded prior to the issuance of the occupancy permit.
      (4)   Interior drive widths.  The minimum pavement widths for driveways
and interior drives shall meet the following requirements, exclusive of any
parking spaces:
         (a)   For single and two-family residential uses the minimum driveway
width shall be 12 feet;
         (b)   Multifamily drives shall be a minimum of 20 feet; and
         (c)   Driveways in commercial developments shall be a minimum of 20
feet.
      (5)   Curbs.  All entrances and interior drives for property used for
purposes other than agriculture, single-family residential or two-family
residential shall generally be completely curbed. Curbing shall not be required
if, in the opinion of the City Stormwater Board and/or County Surveyor, the
drainage system for the property shall be best served if curbs were not
present.
      (6)   Commercial area internal linkages.  All uses located in a
commercial zoning district shall provide interior drives that allow access
between existing and proposed commercial uses on adjacent properties.
         (a)   Cross-access required.  The drives must be designed as a single
two-way drive or a pair of one-way drives that provide access between the
parking lots and interior drives of all adjoining commercial uses.
         (b)   Separation.  Interior drives providing cross-access between
adjacent parcels shall be separated from the right-of-way of any street based
on the vehicle stacking requirements of the entrance(s) to the property from
the public street.
[Image]
 
   Example of an Interior Drive with a Rear Cross-Access Drive in a Commercial
Subdivision
   (C)   Entrance signs.  A minimum of one sign shall be provided at one
entrance to a subdivision. Refer to §
7.7.
      (1)   The sign shall identify the subdivision.
      (2)   The materials should be compatible with the visual character of the
subdivision.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Riparian area requirements, see Title XV, §
7.9(A)(2)(b)
§ 8.13  RETENTION POND STANDARDS.
   To the extent possible, all subdivision retention requirements shall be
accommodated in the least number of ponds or dry areas. One large pond or area
shall be preferred to a series of smaller ponds or areas. All retention areas
shall be placed in a common area under the responsibility of a lot owner’s
association for the subdivision in which they are located. In no case shall
subdivision retention ponds be dedicated to the city, however, the covenants
outlining responsibility for the ponds shall provide the city with the
authority to both require and complete necessary maintenance.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Retention pond landscaping standards, see Title XV, §
7.8(M)
   Stormwater Management, see Volume One,
Chapter 56
§ 8.14  EASEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Utility easements.  The subdivider shall designate areas of suitable
size and location, when necessary for drainage and or utility easements. Where
possible, place utility lines underground, following the required standards and
specifications established by each utility company. The location of each
underground utility system shall be shown by appropriate easement lines on the
proposed lot and approved by the utility company prior to final approval of the
Plan. Utility easements shall be:
      (1)   Enforceable;
      (2)   Binding;
      (3)   Recorded on the secondary plat; and
      (4)   Exclusive of other easements.
   (B)   Drainage easements.  Easements along legal drains shall be established
according to the County Surveyor for the purposes of protecting the stream.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.15  OPEN SPACE STANDARDS/COMMON AREA.
   (A)   Dedication or reservation.  Where sites for parks, schools,
playgrounds or other public uses are located within the subdivision area as
shown in the comprehensive plan, the Plan Commission may request their
dedication for that purposes, or their reservation for a period of two years
following the date of the final approval of the plat. In the event a government
agency concerned passes a resolution expressing its intent to acquire the land
so reserved, the reservation period shall be extended for an additional six
months.
   (B)   Open space.  Residential subdivisions shall include provisions for
common open space which shall be accessible to all residents in the development
by means of walking, hiking, biking or automobile.
      (1)   The minimum amount of common open space as a percentage of net land
area shall be in accordance with
Table 8.5: Percentage Open Space Required (Residential).
 
Table 8.5: Percentage Open Space Required (Residential)
Zoning District Percentage Usable Open Space Required
SF, SF1         8%
SF2,SF3, TR     10%
MF, MH          12%
 
      (2)   The least dimension of any required open space shall be 150 feet. A
public way crosswalk or easement of not less than 15 feet in width shall be
provided for access to the required open space.
      (3)   Retention ponds and land designated as floodplain may count towards
up to 35% of required “open space” if it is designated as common area and
visually and physically accessible to all owners of the common area.
      (4)   The required open space stated above is in addition to any required
landscaping. Parking areas do not count toward open space.
   (C)   Community structure.  In developments with greater than 300 dwelling
units, the development plan shall include provisions for a civic or community
building (clubhouse) which will be available to all property owners within the
development. Any civic or community building shall have a ground floor area of
no less than 2,000 square feet and comply with the same architectural
guidelines and covenants which are applicable to the residences proposed for
the development. At the discretion of the Commission, the area may be
permanently dedicated to the city, or if suitably protected by covenants, to a
private land owner’s association. Playgrounds or public school sites within the
boundaries of the proposed subdivision shall be deemed to meet the community
open space requirements.
   (D)   Public safety.  In developments with greater than 300 dwelling units,
the petitioner/developer shall submit the development plan to the City Fire
Department for review to determine if the plan shall include provisions to
preserve land for future fire structures. If the Board of Public Works
determines a need exists for land based on the recommendations of the City Fire
Department, the Plan Commission may require, the petitioner to include in the
plans of the development, the reserved land areas up to two acres. At the time
as that land is platted, the developer shall include the land in the plat and
deed the land to the city within 60 days thereafter, or upon taking title to
the land.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.16  UTILITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Sanitary sewage disposal.
      (1)   Interpretation.  The phrase THE SUBDIVIDER SHALL PROVIDE shall be
interpreted to mean that the subdivider shall install the facility referred to.
      (2)   Design and installation.  The subdivider shall design and install a
complete sanitary sewer system, which shall connect with a sanitary sewer
outlet in conformance with the standards of the County Board of Health and the
City Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (3)   Installation plans.  The plans for the installation of a sanitary
sewer system shall be provided by the subdivider and approved by the Health
Officer and the City Utilities Service Board. Upon the completion of the
sanitary sewer installation, the plans for the system as built shall be filed
with the Commission. (See §
9.22.)
      (4)   Design specifications.  The system shall be provided with all
necessary supplemental equipment or machinery (including, but not limited to,
lift stations) and be in those lengths, sizes, dimensions and specifications as
be required by the City Utilities Department.
      (5)   General location.  Sewer mains and transmission lines and
structures, with the exception of any above ground structures such as lift
stations or pumps, shall generally be located underground in the right-of-way
provided along public streets. In all instances, the required drawings of these
transmission lines shall be shown with the locations of any street trees and
all other utilities to be provided. The placement of the sewer mains and
laterals shall be compatible with the landscape plan and not preclude the
implementation of the landscape plan.
      (6)   Sewer system plans and specifications.  The plans for the
installation of a sanitary sewer system shall be prepared by a professional
engineer or surveyor licensed in the state, shall be provided by the
subdivider, and shall be subject to review and approval by the City Utilities
Department.
      (7)   Additional requirements.  All sewer systems shall be in accordance
with State Board of Health and State Department of Environmental Management
(IDEM) regulations.
      (8)   “As-built” drawings.  Upon completion of the sewer installation,
the plans “as-built” in paper (hard copy) and electronic format (if possible),
shall be filed with the Utilities Department.
   (B)   Water.
      (1)   Interpretation.  The phrase THE SUBDIVIDER SHALL PROVIDE shall be
interpreted to mean that the subdivider shall install the facility referred to.
      (2)   Water main supply system.  The subdivider shall provide the
subdivision with a complete water main supply system, which shall be connected
to a municipal or a community water supply approved by the Health Officer and
the City Utilities Service Board, in accordance with the requirements and
procedures of the Public Service Commission’s Rule 24, Extension of Water Mains
by Public Utilities.
      (3)   Layout.  The general layout of the water supply system shall be
provided by the subdivider and the City Utilities Service Board shall provide
the plans for the water supply system in accordance with Rule 24.
      (4)   Design specifications.  The water system shall include all
necessary supplemental equipment and machinery including, but not limited, to
all pipes, fire hydrants and valves.
      (5)   General location.  Water supply mains and transmission lines shall
be located either in the right-of-way adjacent to public streets (opposite any
sanitary sewer also included in that right-of-way) or in the front yard of lots
in easements immediately adjacent to the rights-of-way. The placement of water
utilities should be compatible with, and not preclude the landscape plan
requirements.
   (C)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   Design and size.  Drainage systems shall generally promote the
maintenance of natural drainage ways and the incorporation of natural
topography. The design and size of facilities shall be based on the anticipated
runoff from a ten-year storm under conditions of total potential development
permitted by the ordinance in the watershed.
      (2)   Plans and filing.  The drainage report and plans for the
installation of a storm drainage system shall be provided by the subdivider,
reviewed at TAC, and approved by the City Stormwater Management Board. Upon the
completion of the storm sewer installation, the plans for the system as-built
shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning Administrator. (See §
9.22.)
      (3)   Open drainage restrictions.  Open drainage systems shall not be
allowed in the front yards of new development within the jurisdictional areas
of the city unless as part of an innovative drainage concept employing best
management practices (BMPs) and approved by the city. Where approved, shallow
swales, sown or sodded in appropriate plant material, shall be provided. The
use of deep, open ditches is prohibited. Roadside drainage shall not be
disrupted by driveways or other obstructions.
      (4)   Drainage area.  A storm drainage system shall be designed and
constructed by the subdivider to provide for the proper drainage of surface
water from the subdivision and from the drainage area which drains into the
subdivision. All areas included in the drainage area shall be considered based
on their present development conditions for the purposes of designing the
necessary drainage facilities.
      (5)   Required outlets.  All lots within each subdivision shall be
provided with a drainage system connected to a working outlet such as a natural
stream, a storm sewer or an existing open ditch. In no case shall a field tile
be considered an acceptable outlet. No connection draining stormwater runoff
shall be made to a sanitary sewer.
      (6)   Positive drainage from structures.  All lots, tracts or parcels
shall be graded to provide proper drainage away from all structures, and
dispose of the water without ponding in locations other than intended dry or
wet detention basins.
      (7)   Discharge requirements.  It shall be illegal for sump pumps, down
spouts or foundation drains to outlet directly to the street or into the right-
of-way of the street, or to be connected to the sanitary sewer.
         (a)   Sump pumps.  Sump pumps shall be connected to the subsurface
drainage system described in this ordinance.
         (b)   Down spouts.  Down spouts may either be connected directly to
the subsurface drainage system, or may outlet into the yard of the structure on
which they are located.
      (8)   Professional design requirements.  The plans for the installation
of the storm sewer system shall be prepared by a professional engineer or
surveyor licensed in the state. The subdivider’s engineer shall also study the
effects of each subdivision on the existing downstream drainage facilities
outside the area of the subdivision. These plans and studies shall be provided
by the subdivider and shall be subject to review and approval by the TAC and
City Board of Works. In the review and approval of the plans, the Board of
Works may require off-site improvements of drainage outlets to adequately
handle the run-off from the subdivision.
         (a)   As-built drawings.  Upon completion of the subdivision, the
plans “as-built” in paper (hard copy) and electronic format (if possible),
shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning Administrator as per §
9.22.
         (b)   Hardships.  If, in the opinion of the Plan Commission, a
hardship would be created by sizing the system to the entire drainage area, the
Plan Commission may recommend that the city join with the subdivider in
financing the drainage requirements that are beyond the immediate requirements
of the subdivision.
      (9)   Street drainage.  All streets shall be provided with an adequate
storm drainage system consisting of curbs, gutters, storm sewers and inlets or
side ditches and/or culverts, consistent with the specifications of the city,
the appropriate street design standards provided by §
8.8 and the following requirements.
         (a)   Flood hazard areas.  All streets must be located at elevations
that will make them flood-free in the event of a 100-year flood.
            (1)   Where flood conditions exist, the Plan Commission shall
require profiles and elevations of streets in order to determine the
advisability of permitting the proposed subdivision activity.
            (2)   Fill may be used in areas subject to flooding in order to
provide flood-free streets, if the fill does not unduly increase flood heights.
            (3)   Drainage openings shall be designed so as not to restrict the
flow of water and thereby unduly increase flood heights.
         (b)   Stormwater storage.  Drainage inlets shall be spaced, and their
capacity shall be adequate, to limit the spread of stormwater from the gutter
into the street. Inlets shall be placed at all low points in the grade of the
gutter and at all intersections to prevent stormwater from flowing across
traffic lanes and sidewalks.
            (1)   Storm drainage systems shall be designed to prevent the
overtopping of curbs by a ten-year storm.
            (2)   Local streets shall have a minimum 12-foot wide section free
from water during a ten-year storm.
            (3)   Collector and arterial streets shall have a minimum 24-foot
wide section free from water during a ten-year storm.
            (4)   All water shall be contained in the right-of-way for a 50-
year storm.
         (c)   Protective grates.  Protective gratings shall be placed over all
inlets and outlet piping ten inches or larger.
         (d)   Cross-gutter requirements.  All streets having curb and gutter
on which stormwater flows across intersections and/or driveways shall be
provided with concrete cross-gutter at all intersections and driveways.
         (e)   Underdrains.  The subdivider shall provide a subsurface drainage
system, below curbs, to be placed along both sides of the subdivision streets
and wherever else within the subdivision that it is determined to be necessary
by the city.
         (f)   Off-street drainage system general requirements.  The design of
the off-street drainage system shall include all watersheds affected by the
subdivision, and shall extend to a water course or ditch adequate to receive
the storm drainage as determined by the city.
         (g)   Side and rear yard swales.  All side and rear yard swales shall
meet the following requirements and the specifications of the City Engineer:
            (1)   The minimum flow line grade of swales shall generally be 1%;
            (2)   The maximum flow line grade of swales shall generally be 7%;
and
            (3)   The front and back slope of swales shall generally not be
steeper than a four (horizontal) to one (vertical) slope.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.17  COMMON AREA MAINTENANCE OR HOMEOWNER’S ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   In developments which include any of the following, the developer
shall be required to establish a maintenance or homeowner’s association in
accordance with the laws of the state prior to transferring title to any
property within the development:
      (1)   The density is equal to or greater than one-half units per acre;
      (2)   Common or open areas;
      (3)   Landscaped entryway which will require annual maintenance; or
      (4)   Public sidewalks.
   (B)   The covenants of the subdivision secondary plat shall include the
following language.
      (1)   Association.  Each lot owner in the subdivision or addition, by
acceptance of a deed conveying title thereto, whether from the developer or a
subsequent owner of the lot, shall accept the deed subject to the provisions of
the bylaws of the (insert the name of the association) Maintenance or
Homeowner’s Association, Inc., and thereby becomes a member of the (insert the
name of the association) Maintenance or Homeowner’s Association, Inc., for the
purposes outlined herein. The (insert the name of the association) Maintenance
or Homeowner’s Association, Inc. shall be self-perpetuating and will not be
disbanded.
      (2)   Maintenance.  The maintenance or homeowner’s association shall be
professionally managed by a licensed property manager which shall be required
by the association bylaws. The laws of the association shall further require
that revisions to the bylaws, covenants and/or the management firms’ contract
may occur only upon the consent of 80% or more of the lien holders of the
property in the subdivision (not the property owners).
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 8.18  DEVELOPMENT BONUSES.
   (A)   The provision of incentives acknowledges the value and potential costs
of incorporating certain design elements or open space within a residential
neighborhood. The successful incorporation of the design incentives or open
space could allow up to 10% of the residential units to develop at smaller
minimum lot sizes and smaller lot frontages, as determined by the next more
intense residential zoning district. (For example, an SF1 zoned residential
development could be allowed to have the minimum lot area and lot frontage
reduced to the minimums of the SF2 District for up to 10% of its units.) The
incentives shall be reviewed by the TAC and the Planning and Zoning
Administrator, which shall recommend to the Plan Commission approval or denial
of the requested incentive.
   (B)   A density bonus may be approved if the developer:
      (1)   Provides additional usable open space in excess of the minimum
requirements of §
8.15; and/or
      (2)   Exceeds the minimum design standards of §
7.18.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
CHAPTER 9:  PERMITS, CERTIFICATES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
9.1   Permit and application types
   
9.2   Grading/land disturbance permit
   
9.3   Improvement location permit
   
9.4   Permit for industrial use
   
9.5   Conditional use permit
   
9.6   Sign permit
   
9.7   Fence permit
   
9.8   Home occupation permit
   
9.9   Demolition permit
   
9.10   Temporary vendor permit
   
9.11   Certificate of occupancy
   
9.12   Certificate of compliance with safety codes
   
9.13   Text amendments, zoning map changes, rezones
   
9.14   Written commitments
   
9.15   Notice of public hearing
   
9.16   Site plan
   
9.17   Development plan
   
9.18   Subdivision control procedures - general
   
9.19   Subdivision control procedures - major subdivisions
   
9.20   Subdivision control procedures - minor subdivisions
   
9.21   Administrative subdivisions
   
9.22   As-built plans/record drawings
   
9.23   Development standards variance
   
9.24   Subdivision control waiver
§ 9.1  PERMIT AND APPLICATION TYPES.
   (A)   Permit and certificate applications required.  The city requires that
an application and fee be submitted for the following types of permits and
certificates:
      (1)   Grading/land disturbance permit;
      (2)   Improvement location permit:
         (a)   A building permit may also be required in addition to
improvement location permits in order to meet the City Building Code;
         (b)   Building permits will not be issued until an improvement
location permit has been acquired, meeting all requirements outlined in this
section; and
         (c)   Building permits are issued by the City Planning Department.
      (3)   Permit for industrial use;
      (4)   Conditional use permit;
      (5)   Sign permit;
      (6)   Fence permit;
      (7)   Home occupation permit;
      (8)   Demolition permit;
      (9)   Temporary vendor permit;
      (10)   Certificate of occupancy; and
      (11)   Certificate of compliance with safety codes.
   (B)   Petition applications required.  The city requires that an application
and fee be submitted for the following types of petitions:
      (1)   Zoning map amendment (“rezoning”);
      (2)   Development standards variance;
      (2)   Conditional use;
      (3)   Administrative appeal;
      (4)   Subdivision control waiver; and
      (5)   Planned unit development (subject to the requirements of
Chapter 5).
   (C)   Application materials.  All applications may be obtained from the
Planning and Building Department offices. Fees shall be paid to the city at the
time all petition applications are submitted and at the time all permits are
issued.
      (1)   Application forms.  All applications shall be made on forms
provided by the Planning and Building Department. All applicants shall submit
original applications that are completed in their entirety in ink or typed.
      (2)   Copies of materials.  All applicants shall submit copies of
applications and necessary plans and attachments as required by the adopted
policies of the Planning and Zoning Administrator and the applicable Rules and
Procedures of the Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   Scheduling.  All applications shall be assigned reference and/or
docket numbers by the Administrator.
         (a)   Petition applications.  Petition applications shall be scheduled
by the Administrator or his or her designee for the appropriate public hearings
based on the completeness of the application consistent with the requirements
of this article and the appropriate adopted calendars of filing and meeting
dates for the Board of Zoning Appeals and/or Plan Commission.
         (b)   Order of action taken.  Action shall be taken on all
applications in the order in which they were received.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.2  GRADING/LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT.
   (A)   Intent.  To eliminate any non-allowable discharges to the city
municipal utility system that may impact water quality, and to ensure
compliance with Technical Assistance Committee review and Plan Commission
approval.
   (B)   Required.  Any development that disturbs more than one acre of land is
required to obtain a grading/land disturbance permit.
   (C)   Exemptions.  No site development permit is required for the following
activities:
      (1)   Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the
protection of life, property or natural resources;
      (2)   Agricultural land management activities (except where the clearing
of the land, forest or other agriculture activity results in activities other
than further agriculture or forest use);
      (3)   Additions or modifications to existing detached single-family
dwellings; and
      (4)   Developments that do not disturb more than one acre of land use.
This exemption may not be applied for contiguous properties that may have been
subdivided and/or are attributed to multiple separate owners. This exemption
does not apply to any discharge of sediment or other form of water pollution
that may leave a small site.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.3  IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   Within the jurisdiction of the City Plan Commission, no structure,
improvement or use of land may be altered, changed, placed, removed, erected or
located on platted or unplatted lands unless the structure, improvement or use,
and its location conform to this ordinance and an improvement location permit
for the structure, improvement or use has been obtained from the Administrator
by the owner of the property or his or her agent.
      (2)   The Administrator shall only issue an improvement location permit
when the proposed structure, improvement or use, and its location have met all
the applicable requirements of this ordinance and other relevant city
ordinances.
      (3)   An improvement location permit must be obtained for any of the
actions listed below. A single improvement location permit may be issued for a
combination of these actions, if they occur together. The Administrator shall
determine if the application requires review by the Technical Assistance
Committee.
         (a)   New development, after rezoning or plat approval;
         (b)   Adding or subtracting dwelling units or leased space in
multifamily or commercial structures;
         (c)   Any use that exceeds 100 square feet in area and/or has a
permanent foundation (including structures other than buildings such as towers
and antennas);
         (d)   Any temporary use of land or temporary structure;
         (e)   Swimming pools with a depth greater than 30 inches (in-ground
pools shall be required to obtain a permit, above ground pools less than 15
feet in diameter shall not be required to obtain a permit, but shall comply
with this ordinance);
         (f)   Additions to all structures;
         (g)   Changes of use;
         (h)   Conditional uses (see §
9.5);
         (i)   Placement or replacement of manufactured or mobile homes;
         (j)   Parking lot construction or alteration;
         (k)   Removal of required trees and plants within buffer yards and
landscaping areas required by this ordinance;
         (l)   Mineral extraction;
         (m)   Telecommunication towers, buildings and antenna; and
         (n)   Any exterior construction that adds to or alters the height of
an existing structure.
   (B)   Exemptions. No improvement location permit shall be required for the
types of improvements listed below. However, any improvement shall comply with
any applicable requirements of this ordinance and any other adopted standards
of the city:
      (1)   Routine maintenance, repair or interior non-structural remodeling
of existing buildings not involving any change of use, additional lot coverage
or increase in structure size;
      (2)   Essential services (public utilities and the like), as defined in
Chapter 11;
      (3)   Lot and yard improvements such as fences, drives, sidewalks,
patios, decks, retaining walls, play equipment, gazebos less than 200 square
feet in area, above ground pools less than 30 inches in depth and 15 feet in
diameter; and landscaping;
      (4)   Signs as specified in sign exemptions, §
7.7(C); and
      (5)   Mini-barns and storage containers that are portable and less than
100 square feet or less in area.
   (C)   Completion time.
      (1)   An improvement location permit shall lapse and become null and void
if the work or use authorized by the permit is not commenced within six months
of the date that the permit was issued. All work authorized by the permit shall
be completed within 24 months from the date that the permit was issued.
      (2)   At the discretion of the Administrator and with good cause shown,
the Administrator may extend the work completion time.
      (3)   Conditional uses receiving improvement location permits are exempt
from these requirements. For limits on conditional uses, see §
9.5.
   (D)   Sewage disposal.  An application for an improvement location permit
for any use shall not be approved until it has been ascertained by the
Administrator that the proposed use and minimum lot size and width meets the
minimum standards for a sewage disposal system as required by the County Health
Department and the City Board of Works and Safety and as otherwise required by
this ordinance.
   (E)   Construction according to permits and permit application.  Improvement
location permits issued on the basis of plans and applications only authorize
the use, arrangement and construction set forth in the approved plans and
applications. Current approved plans and the permit shall remain on the
construction site. Any other use, arrangement or construction not authorized
shall be deemed a violation of this ordinance and subject to the provisions of
Chapter 10.
   (F)   Special flood hazard areas (SFHA).  Applications for improvement
location permits in the SFHA shall meet all the specifications set forth in
City Ordinance 97-1 “Ordinance on Flood Hazards,” as amended.
      (1)   Upon submittal of an application for an improvement location
permit, the Administrator shall determine if the property is located within a
floodway, floodway fringe or within a floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined (Zone A).
      (2)   If the property is found to be located in a floodway, the applicant
shall forward the improvement location permit application and pertinent plans
and specifications to the State Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) for a
permit for construction in a floodway according to I.C. 14-28-1. Upon receipt
of a permit from IDNR, the Administrator may issue an improvement location
permit, provided however, that the improvement location permit may not be less
restrictive than the permit issued by IDNR.
      (3)   If the property is found to be in the floodway fringe, the
applicant must meet all of the provisions set forth in §§ 7 and 8 of Ordinance
97-1, as amended. Once the Administrator is satisfied that the requirements
have been met, he or she may issue an improvement location permit according to
the provisions of City Ordinance 97-1, as amended.
      (4)   (a)   If the property is located in a floodplain where the limits
of the floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined (Zone A), and
the drainage area upstream is greater than one square mile, the applicant shall
forward the improvement location permit application and pertinent plans and
specifications to the State Department of Natural Resources (IDNR).
         (b)   Upon either the receipt of a permit for construction in the
floodway from IDNR or a letter of recommendation from IDNR citing the 100-year
flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade, the Administrator
may issue an improvement location permit, provided however, that the
improvement location permit may not be less restrictive than the conditions
issued by IDNR, and provided that the provisions of §§ 7 and 8 of City
Ordinance 97-1, as amended, have been met.
      (5)   (a)   If the property is located in a floodplain where the limits
of the floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined (Zone A), and
the drainage area upstream is less than one-square mile, the Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodway, floodway fringe and 100-year flood elevation for the
site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Administrator may issue the improvement
location permit, provided that the provisions of §§ 7 and 8 of City Ordinance
97-1, as amended, have been met.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009)
Editor’s note:
   For additional information, see the City of Lebanon Building Code.
§ 9.4  PERMIT FOR INDUSTRIAL USE.
   An application for an improvement location permit for an industrial use,
subject to the provisions of §
9.3, shall be required in addition to development plan review.
   (A)   The Administrator may take ten days in which to study the application,
during which time he or she  may consult with appropriate technical
consultants. If after the ten-day period, the Administrator has not required
any additional information or stated any objection in writing, the
Administrator shall issue the improvement location permit.
   (B)   The application may be approved with modifications if the Board of
Zoning Appeals determines that the required determination in writing may be
made only if certain conditions are applied to the application. The Board may
make reasonable conditions related to the required determination in writing,
part of its approval and/or accept written commitments from the applicant.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.5  CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   General provisions.  In no case shall conditional uses be authorized
without the approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA). Further, no
decisions on previous applications shall serve to set a precedent for any other
application before the BZA.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   (a)   Application.  The applicant shall submit a conditional use
application, affidavit and consent of property owner (if the owner is someone
other than the applicant), a copy of the deed for the property involved, the
required filing fee and required supporting information. Other supporting
information shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
            1.   Site plan.  A site plan shall be signed and dated, and clearly
show the entire layout of the property and all features relevant to the
conditional use request; and
            2.   Statement of intent.  A statement of intent to the Board of
Zoning Appeals describing the details of the conditional use request including,
but not limited to:
               A.   The ways in which the conditional use shall comply with the
applicable development standards of this ordinance;
               B.   The ways in which the conditional use shall be consistent
with the required determination in writing; and
               C.   Any written commitments being made by the applicant.
         (b)   An application for a conditional use for all new light and heavy
manufacturing uses shall be filed with the city Planning and Building
Department by at least one owner or agent of the owner of the property for
which such conditional use is proposed. At a minimum, the application shall
contain the following information:
            1.   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant;
            2.   Letter of authorization of owner of property if the applicant
is not owner;
            3.   Legal description of property;
            4.   Description of proposed conditional use;
            5.   Description of proposed conditional use;
            6.   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing
the location of all buildings, parking and loading areas, utilities, signs,
yards, and such other information as the Board may require to determine if the
proposed conditional use meets the intent and requirements of this Unified
Development Ordinance;
            7.   A narrative statement evaluating the effects on adjoining
property, the effect of such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and
vibration on adjoining property; a discussion of the general compatibility with
adjacent and other properties in the district; and the relationship of the
proposed use to the comprehensive plan;
            8.   Such other information as may be required by the Board of
Zoning Appeals; and
            9.   A fee as established by ordinance.
      (2)   Notification.  Notification for the scheduled public hearing
regarding the conditional use request shall be completed consistent with §
9.15 and the Rules and Procedures of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   Public hearing.
         (a)   The BZA will then, in a public hearing scheduled consistent with
the adopted calendar of filing and meeting dates, review the conditional use
application and required supporting information.
         (b)   Representation, testimony, procedures and decisions shall be as
stated in the BZA Rules of Procedure, as amended.
      (4)   Standards for granting a conditional use.  The following conditions
must be met in order to grant a conditional use.
         (a)   The proposed use is listed as a conditional use for the
particular zoning district of the subject site.
         (b)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the conditional
use will not be determintal to or endanger the public health, safety, morals or
general welfare of the community.
         (c)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of the other property in the immediate vicinity for lawfully-
permitted purposes, nor substantially diminish or impair property values within
the neighborhood and zoning district.
         (d)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede or
substantially alter the normal and orderly development and improvement of
surrounding property for uses permitted in the zoning district.
         (e)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities have been or will be provided.
         (f)   The proposed use is not in conflict with the goals of the
comprehensive plan or the unified development ordinance.
   (C)   General standards applicable to all conditional uses. In addition to
the special requirements for permitted conditional uses as specified in
Chapter 9, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall review the particular facts and
circumstances of each proposed use in terms of the following standards and
shall find adequate evidence showing that the use at the proposed location:
      (1)   Is in fact a permitted conditional use as listed in each use
district and appears in
Chapter 4, Use Matrix for the zoning involved;
      (2)   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives, or with any specific objective of the city’s comprehensive plan and
zoning ordinance;
      (3)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      (4)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      (5)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewer, and schools; or that the persons
or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able
to provide adequately any such service;
      (6)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost
for public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
      (7)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property,
or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare, or odors;
      (8)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property,
or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare, or odors;
      (9)   Will have vehicular approaches to the property, which shall be so
designed as not to create an interface with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares; and
      (10)   Will not result in the destruction, loss, or damage of a natural,
scenic, or historic feature of major importance.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009; Ord. 2015-14,
passed 11-10-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Sign exemptions, see Title XV, §
7.7(C)
§ 9.6  SIGN PERMIT.
   (A)   Applicability.  The following procedure applies to sign permits. Refer
to §
7.7 for standards for permanent and temporary signs.
   (B)   Exemptions.  No sign shall be constructed, replaced, erected or
modified within the city limits without first obtaining a sign permit;
provided, however, that the following shall be exempt from permitting
requirements:
      (1)   Ordinary maintenance and repair to existing signs, provided that
the work does not affect the structure to a degree greater than 50% of the
current replacement cost, exclusive of the structural support of the sign;
      (2)   Change of copy on signs listing current or future programs and
events taking place on the premises;
      (3)   Seasonal decorations and displays, provided they conform to the
provisions of §
7.7;
      (4)   Real estate signs, provided they conform to the provisions of §
7.7;
      (5)   Street signs erected by a subdivider or by the municipality for the
purpose of street identification;
      (6)   Public information signs installed by the city or other
governmental agency; and
      (7)   Rotation, repainting and posting of copy.
   (C)   Application.  Application for sign permits shall be made through the
Administrator and shall include a site plan that includes the following
information:
      (1)   Clear and legible drawings with descriptions showing the location
of the sign that is the subject of the permit, as well as the location of the
building, structure or land on which the sign is to be located;
      (2)   An indication of all existing and anticipated signs on the same
property and for the same business use;
      (3)   The proposed location of the sign in relation to the face of the
building or the lot lines of the property on which it is to be located
(including the locations of easements), whichever is applicable;
      (4)   The dimensions of the sign, and where applicable, the dimensions of
the wall surface of the building to which it is to be attached;
      (5)   The dimensions of the sign’s structural members;
      (6)   Mounting details;
      (7)   Description of sign materials and colors;
      (8)   Type of illumination;
      (9)   The owner shall agree to maintain the sign by repainting peeled
surfaces and replacing inoperative components; and to remove the sign when the
use of the property has been terminated. Should he or she fail to maintain the
sign as outlined above, the city shall cause the sign to be removed at the
owner’s expense after having given the owner of the sign 30 days written notice
to do so;
      (10)   Other applicable information as the Administrator may require
under the provisions of this section; and
      (11)   A sign permit fee shall accompany the application for a permit and
shall be paid in accordance with the fee schedule in effect at the time of
application.
   (D)   Procedure.  The Zoning Administrator shall review an application for a
sign permit for compliance with this chapter and issue the permit or reject the
application in writing within ten working days of its receipt. Failure of the
Administrator to take these actions shall constitute approval of the sign
permit.
   (E)   Effect of sign permit issuance.  A sign permit issued under the
provisions of this section shall not be deemed to constitute permission or
authorization to maintain an unlawful sign nor shall it be deemed as a defense
in an action to remove an unlawful sign.
   (F)   Expiration.  A sign permit shall become null and void if work has not
been started within 30 days of the date the permit is issued or completed
within 90 days of the date the permit is issued; provided, however, that when a
sign permit is issued in connection with a building permit for the site on
which the sign is to be located, the sign permit shall not run concurrent with
the building permit. If the sign has not been erected upon expiration of the
permit, the holder of a sign permit may apply through the Administrator for a
three-month extension on the permit within ten working days of the expiration
date. A sign permit shall be renewed only once, after which time the permit
shall be null and void.
   (G)   Inspection.
      (1)   The Administrator or his or her appointed official shall have the
right of entry in order to inspect all signs for compliance with the provisions
of local codes and ordinances.
      (2)   When any sign becomes insecure, in danger of falling or otherwise
unsafe, the Administrator shall send written notice to the owner of the sign to
remove or repair the sign. If the sign is not so removed or repaired within 30-
working days, the city shall cause the sign to be removed at the expense of the
owner of the sign.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Fence and wall standards, see Title XV, §
7.14
§ 9.7  FENCE PERMIT.
   (A)   Application requirements.  Application for a fence permit shall be
made to the Planning and Building Department, and shall contain, or have
attached thereto, the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The location of the lot(s) or boundaries of the property including
easements, on which the fence is proposed to be constructed;
      (3)   The proposed location of the fence;
      (4)   The type of material and height of the proposed fence; and
      (5)   Any other information as the Administrator shall require to show
full compliance with this ordinance and any other city ordinance.
   (B)   Appeal.  Any denial of a fence permit by the Administrator may be
appealed to the BZA.
   (C)   Fee.  The fee for a fence permit shall be as prescribed in the fee
ordinance and is payable upon receipt of permit.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-07, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 9.8  HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Application requirements.  Application for a home occupation permit
shall be made to the Planning and Building Department. One home occupation
permit shall be required for each home occupation within the residence, and
shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and address of the lot(s); and
      (3)   Any other information as the Administrator shall require to show
full compliance with this ordinance and any other city ordinance.
   (B)   Compliance.  Home occupation permits are subject to review for
compliance with §
7.12. Should a violation of this ordinance occur, the permit is subject to
revocation.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.9  DEMOLITION PERMIT.
   (A)   Required.  A demolition permit is required for any demolition or
partial demolition of any building or structure within the city.
   (B)   Application.  Application for a demolition permit shall be made to the
Planning and Building Department, and shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information:
      (1)   The owner’s complete name, present mailing address and phone
number;
      (2)   The contractor’s complete name, present mailing address and phone
number;
      (3)   A site plan, to scale, indicating all property lines, utility
lines, buildings and structures on the site with emphasis on each building or
structure to be demolished;
      (4)   A copy of a written release from all utility companies stating that
the utilities to the building or structures being demolished have been properly
terminated;
      (5)   A copy of inspections made regarding safe demolition; and
      (6)   A copy of all written notices to the owner(s) of the properties
adjoining the projected demolition site.
   (C)   Approval.  Demolition permit approval must come from the Planning and
Building Department and the City Fire Department.
   (D)   Expiration.  The demolition permit shall expire if work has not
commenced within or is suspended for a period of six months from the issue
date.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.10  TEMPORARY VENDOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   Generally.  All temporary vendors shall not conduct business
without first obtaining a temporary vendor permit.
      (2)   Exemptions.
         (a)   Children’s lemonade stands and roadside farm stands on private
residential property are not required to obtain a temporary vendor permit.
         (b)   Roadside sales stands are limited to fresh or canned produce,
jams and other edible products grown by the property owner.
   (B)   Application.  Application for a temporary vendor permit shall be made
to the Planning and Building Department, and shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the individual or
organization applying for the permit. If not applied for by an organization, a
permit will be required for each vending operation;
      (2)   The location and address where the temporary vending operation will
be located;
      (3)   The type of merchandise being sold;
      (4)   If applied for by an organization, the approximate number of
vendors; and
      (5)   The hours of operation and the duration/recurring nature of the
vending operation.
   (C)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Each temporary vending operation, whether applied for by an
organization or by an individual, may be allowed up to one temporary sign, no
more than 16 square feet in size, to be removed when the vending operation is
not conducting business.
      (2)   The allowance for a temporary sign expires with the temporary
vendor permit.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.11  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Certificate required.
      (1)   No land shall be occupied or used, no change shall be made in the
use of land, except as provided in this ordinance, nor shall there be any
change in the use of any building in whole or in part, for any purpose
whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy is issued by the Administrator.
The certificate of occupancy shall state that the building and use comply with
all of the provisions of this ordinance applicable to the building or premises
or the use in the district in which it is to be located.
      (2)   When the improvement covered by the improvement location permit has
been completed in substantial conformity with the site plan or development plan
submitted in the application pursuant to §
9.17, a certificate of occupancy shall then be issued.
   (B)   Inspection.  Upon the completion of the work approved through an
improvement location permit, the permit holder shall contact the Planning and
Building Department and schedule a final inspection to verify the installation
of improvements consistent with the requirements of this ordinance.
   (C)   Temporary certificates.  A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the Administrator after application has been made for completed
portions of a development which has been approved as a conditional use,
provided that a certificate of occupancy is required upon completion of the
total development.
   (D)   Applied for coincidentally.  A certificate of occupancy shall be
issued within ten days after notification by the applicant thereof that the
lawful erection, reconstruction or structural alteration of the building or
other improvement of the land has been completed.
   (E)   Record of certificates.  A record of all certificates of occupancy
shall be kept on file in the office of the Administrator, and copies shall be
furnished upon request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest
in the building or land affected.
   (F)   Excavation.  No improvement location permit shall be issued for the
excavation for, or the erection, reconstruction or structural alteration of any
building before application has been made and site or development plan
approved.
   (G)   Completion time.  The work or use authorized by any improvement
location permit must be commenced within six months of the date of issuance of
the permit, otherwise the same shall lapse and become null and void. All work
so authorized shall be completed within 24 months from the issuance of the
improvement location permit. At the Administrator’s discretion and with good
cause shown, the Administrator may extend the work completion time.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.12  CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH SAFETY CODES.
   (A)   Certificate required.  No change of tenant or use within the NB, CB or
Downtown Overlay Districts shall be allowed without a certificate of compliance
with safety codes (“certificate of compliance”). The certificate of compliance
will enable the City Planning Department to determine compliance with Building,
Fire, Plumbing, Electric or other applicable city codes. This certificate is
required for all existing development, new construction, alterations,
expansions and conversions whether owner- or renter-occupied.
   (B)   Pre-existing uses.  The initial certificate of compliance for subject
properties shall be obtained within 12 months of the adoption of this
ordinance.
   (C)   Living area.  Each single-family and multifamily dwelling unit shall
have separate and individual kitchen and bathroom facilities unless as
specified in §
7.21.
   (D)   Exemptions.  Single- or two-family residences that are intended to
remain only as single- or two-family use are exempt and not required to obtain
a certificate of compliance.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.13  TEXT AMENDMENTS, ZONING MAP CHANGES, REZONES.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of this section is to provide standards and
procedures for making amendments to the text of this ordinance and the official
zoning map that are of general significance or application. This amendment
process is not intended to relieve particular hardships nor to confer special
privileges or rights upon any person, but only to make adjustments necessary in
light of changed conditions or changes in public policy.
   (B)   Authority.  The text of this ordinance and the official zoning map
incorporated by reference into this unified development ordinance may be
amended as necessary by the passage of a petition duly adopted by Common
Council in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-602 and with the procedures set forth
herein.
   (C)   Planned unit development (PUD) zoning.  Refer to
Chapter 5 of this ordinance.
   (D)   Parties entitled to initiate amendments.
      (1)   The Common Council or the Plan Commission may, as necessary,
initiate a proposal to amend, supplement or change the text of this ordinance
and the official zoning map. The Administrator shall serve as the
representative of the applicant for the proposals.
      (2)   Petitions, duly signed by the owners of 50% or more of the area
involved, may be used to initiate a proposal to amend or change the official
zoning map.
      (3)   Any proposed ordinance for the amendment, supplement, change or
repeal of the zoning ordinance not originating from petition of the Plan
Commission shall be referred to the Plan Commission for consideration and
report before any final action is taken by the Common Council.
   (E)   Standards for amendments.  In making their determination of whether to
adopt or deny, or to adopt some modification of the Plan Commission’s
recommendation, the Common Council should consider, among other factors, the
following:
      (1)   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the goals,
objectives and policies of the comprehensive plan, as adopted and amended as
necessary by the Common Council;
      (2)   Whether the proposed amendment is compatible with current
conditions and the overall character of existing development in the immediate
vicinity of the subject property;
      (3)   Whether the proposed amendment is the most desirable use for which
the land in the subject property is adapted;
      (4)   Whether the proposed amendment will have an adverse effect on the
value of properties throughout the jurisdiction; and
      (5)   Whether the proposed amendment reflects responsible standards for
development and growth.
   (F)   Procedure for review and decision.  A proposal to amend the text of
the unified development ordinance or to amend the official zoning map shall be
processed in accordance with the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure and as set
forth below.
      (1)   Application, affidavit and consent.  The applicant shall submit a
rezoning application, affidavit and consent of property owner (if the owner is
someone other than the applicant), to the City Plan Commission and/or Common
Council, a copy of the deed for the property involved, the required filing fee
and required supporting information. Supporting information shall include, but
not be limited to the following:
         (a)   Site plan.  A conceptual site plan showing all features relevant
to the application. See §
9.16;
         (b)   Vicinity map.  A vicinity map showing the use and zoning of all
properties within 500 feet of the property subject to the rezoning request;
         (c)   Letter of intent.  A letter of intent to the Plan Commission
stating the reasons for the rezoning, including a detailed description of any
proposed development for which the rezoning is sought. The letter should
include any written commitments (§
9.14) being made by the applicant; and
         (d)   Fiscal impact analysis.  A fiscal impact analysis shall be
required for rezones of property proposing 50 or more residential units.
      (2)   Notification.  Notification for the scheduled Plan Commission
public hearing regarding the rezoning request shall be completed consistent
with the requirements of §
9.15 and the Rules of Procedures of the Plan Commission.
      (3)   Plan Commission public hearing.
         (a)   Public hearing.  The Plan Commission will then, in a public
hearing review the rezoning application and required supportive information.
         (b)   Representation.  The applicant and/or any representative of the
applicant must be present at the public hearing to present the application and
address any questions the Plan Commission might have.
      (4)   Testimony.  The Plan Commission shall consider a report from the
Administrator and testimony from the applicant, remonstrators, the public and
interested parties at the hearing.
      (5)   Procedures.  The presentation of reports and testimony and all
other aspects of the public hearing shall be consistent with the requirements
of the Rules of Procedures of the Plan Commission.
      (6)   Possible Plan Commission action.  The Plan Commission shall either
forward the application to the Common Council with a favorable recommendation,
an unfavorable recommendation, or no recommendation or continue the request.
         (a)   Favorable recommendation.  The application shall be forwarded
with a favorable recommendation if, by a majority vote of the Plan Commission,
it is found to be consistent with the decision criteria of subsection (G)
below. The recommendation may include commitments requested by the Plan
Commission.
         (b)   Unfavorable recommendation.  The application shall be forwarded
with an unfavorable recommendation if, by a majority vote of the Plan
Commission, it is determined by the Plan Commission to be inconsistent with the
decision criteria of subsection (G) below.
         (c)   No recommendation.  The application may be forwarded with no
recommendation if, by a majority vote of the Plan Commission, it is determined
that the application includes aspects that the Plan Commission is not able to
evaluate.
         (d)   Continued.  The application may be continued by the Plan
Commission based on a request by the Administrator, applicant, remonstrator or
interested party; an indecisive vote, or a determination by the Plan Commission
that additional information is required prior to action being taken on the
request.
            (1)   Additional legal notice shall not be required unless
specified by the Plan Commission.
            (2)   The continuing of all applications shall be consistent with
the adopted Rules of Procedures of the Plan Commission.
      (7)   Certification to the Common Council.  The Plan Commission shall
certify its recommendation by resolution to the Common Council within ten
business days of its determination (per I.C. 36-7-4-608). The Plan Commission
staff shall forward to the Common Council appropriate copies of the Plan
Commission resolution, the original application and all supporting information,
any staff reports regarding the application and an ordinance for the Council’s
consideration.
      (8)   Common Council action. The Council will review the rezoning
application and the materials forwarded from the Plan Commission. The Council
may then take action on the application.
         (a)   Notification.  The Council shall provide notification of action
on the ordinance consistent with the State Code.
         (b)   Possible action.  The Council may either approve or deny the
ordinance. If the Council fails to act within the 90 days of the ordinance’s
certification to the Council, the ordinance shall become effective or be
defeated with the provisions of I.C. 36-74-608. The Common Council may also
seek modifications or additions to any written commitments as per §
9.14.
   (G)   Decision criteria.  In reviewing the rezoning application, the Plan
Commission and Common Council shall consider the following:
      (1)   Comprehensive plan.  The city comprehensive plan and any other
applicable, adopted planning studies or reports;
      (2)   Current conditions.  The current conditions and the character of
current structures and uses in each district;
      (3)   Desired use.  The most desirable use for which the land in each
district is adapted;
      (4)   Property values.  The conservation of property values throughout
city’s planning jurisdiction; and
      (5)   Responsible growth.  Responsible growth and development.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.14  WRITTEN COMMITMENTS.
   (A)   General provisions.  The applicant in any rezoning application may
make written commitments regarding the characteristics of the proposed future
use of, or the resolution of outstanding issues in existence on, the subject
property consistent with I.C. 36-7-4-615.
   (B)   Origin of commitments.  Written commitments may be proposed by the
applicant as an element of the initial submittal of application materials, or
in response to any modifications requested by the Plan Commission or Common
Council.
   (C)   Consideration of commitments.  All commitments shall be considered by
the Plan Commission and the Common Council in the review of the application.
      (1)   Commitments shall be included as an element of the rezoning
ordinance prepared by the Plan Commission following action taken at the public
hearing.
      (2)   Any deletion, addition or alteration of the written commitments
proposed by the Council shall be referred back to the Plan Commission for
consideration and included in a revised or affirmed recommendation regarding
the application or may amend the written commitments and incorporate the
written commitments within the rezoning ordinance.
   (D)   Documenting of commitments.  Following final action being taken on the
rezoning application, the rezoning ordinance, with any written commitments
included, shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder by the
applicant and shall not be considered effective until so recorded. A copy of
any recorded commitments shall be provided to the Administrator at the time of
application for any improvement location permit. No improvement location permit
shall be issued for a permit application that does not comply with the written
commitments.
   (E)   Enforcement of commitments.  The written commitments shall be
considered part of the rezoning ordinance binding on the subject property.
      (1)   The written commitments shall be binding on the owner of the
subject property, any subsequent owners of the subject property and any person
or entity that acquires an interest in the subject property or portion thereof.
      (2)   The written commitments shall be enforceable by the Plan Commission
or Common Council consistent with the adopted provisions for the enforcement of
any other aspect of this ordinance, as described in
Chapter 10.
      (3)   The written commitments may be modified only through the zoning map
amendment process described by this chapter.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.15  NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   For all public hearings, the notice shall be provided to the public
consistent with the requirements of this chapter and the Rules of Procedures of
the Board of Zoning Appeals and Plan Commission. Required public notice shall
include the following.
   (A)   Legal notice.  The applicant shall prepare and pay for a legal notice
consistent with the requirements of I.C. 5-3-1 for publication in the local
newspaper. The legal notice shall appear in the newspaper no less than one time
at least ten days prior to the public hearing, not including the date of the
hearing. Legal notices shall include each of the following:
      (1)   Property location.  The general location of the subject property,
including its common address and a legal description of the included land;
      (2)   Available plans.  The project plans are available for examination
at the office of the City Plan Commission;
      (3)   Hearing information.  A public hearing will be held, giving the
date, place and hour of the hearing;
      (4)   Written comments.  Written comments on the application will be
accepted prior to the public hearing and may be submitted to the Administrator;
and
      (5)   Docket number.  The applicant shall not place legal notice in any
newspaper without first receiving a docket number for the case being heard.
   (B)   Notice to interested parties.  The applicant shall prepare and
distribute written notice of the application to all interested parties. The
written notice shall be distributed at least ten days prior to the public
hearing, not including the date of the hearing. In no instances shall streets,
alleys, streams or other features be considered boundaries for precluding
notification.
      (1)   Notice information.  The notice shall contain the same information
as the legal notice that is published in the newspaper as outlined in
subsection (A) above.
      (2)   Responsibility.  The distribution and cost of the notice shall be
the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   Notification requirements.  Notification shall be provided to
owners of all parcels of land within 300 feet of the perimeter boundaries of
the subject property. The most current list of property owners can be obtained
from the County Recorder’s office. For the purposes of notification, where any
adjacent parcels of land are owned by the applicant(s), subject property shall
be deemed to include adjacent land owned by the applicants.
      (4)   Notification certification.  A copy of the materials provided to
each property owner, the completed certificate of mailing and/or delivery
forms, and a completed affidavit of notice certifying the correctness of the
mailing list shall be provided to the Administrator by the applicant a minimum
of two business days prior to the date of the public hearing.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.16  SITE PLAN.
   Where required by this ordinance, site plans shall be drawn to scale and
shall show the following items:
   (A)   Legal or site description of the real estate involved;
   (B)   Location and size of all buildings and structures;
   (C)   Width and length of all entrances and exits to and from the real
estate;
   (D)   All adjacent and adjoining roads or highways;
   (E)   Lot number, where applicable;
   (F)   Actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
   (G)   Front, side and rear setback line;
   (H)   All easements;
   (I)   Number of families or housekeeping units or square footage of business
uses, whichever is applicable, that the building is designed to accommodate and
any other information in regard to the lot and neighboring lots and their use
as may be necessary to determine and provide for the enforcement of the
provisions of this ordinance; and
   (J)   Arrangement of service areas, planting areas and parking areas, where
applicable.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 9.17  DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Authority of the Plan Commission to review development plans.  The
City Plan Commission is hereby authorized to review and make findings on all
development plans that are required by this ordinance.
   (B)   Development plans required.  Development plan approval shall be
required for those projects as listed below and in
Chapter 4 and
Table 4.1: Use Matrix. Improvement location permits and building permits shall
not be issued until the conditions and requirements of this ordinance have been
met. Single-family development of three lots or fewer are exempt from this
requirement. Development plans shall be provided for:
      (1)   All uses within the MF, MH, CB, NB, PBC, PBO, PBI, ID and IN
Districts;
      (2)   Public and semi-public uses;
      (3)   All uses within the Thoroughfare Overlay District;
      (4)   All uses within the Interstate Overlay District;
      (5)   All uses within the Downtown Overlay District; and
      (6)   Wireless communication facilities.
   (C)   Application procedure.
      (1)   Preliminary meeting.  The applicant shall submit a development plan
application to the Planning and Zoning Administrator to schedule a preliminary
meeting with staff to provide the applicant with guidance as to the development
plan process.
      (2)   Information to include.  All sheets shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The proposed name by which the project shall be legally and
commonly known;
         (b)   Date of survey, scale and north point;
         (c)   All lots or outlots intended for sale or lease shall be
designated with boundary lines and numbered or labeled for identification
purposes;
         (d)   Private parks, common areas or excluded parcels shall be
designated as such and clearly labeled on the plans;
         (e)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary for proper
review of the development plan by the Administrator or Plan Commission;
         (f)   All necessary reference points tying the subject property to the
appropriate section corners;
         (g)   Each sheet shall be sealed and signed by the professional
preparing the drawings; and
         (h)   All sheets shall be tied to state plane coordinates for
horizontal and vertical controls. All sheets shall include utility lines,
infrastructure and site lighting on all sheets.
      (3)   Development plan format.  All development plans shall be submitted
under the seal and signature of a professional engineer or registered land
surveyor licensed to practice in the state. All sheets shall be 24 inches by 36
inches size drawn to scale at a minimum one inch equals 50 feet and a maximum
one inch equals ten feet with the exception of the maps on Sheet One, unless
otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator. All final plans shall be
submitted in conformance with the established procedures of the Planning
Department. Development plans submitted for review shall observe the following
format:
         (a)   Title sheet.  The following information shall be submitted as
part of Sheet One:
            (1)   Full legal description with sufficient reference to section
corners and boundary map of the subject project, including appropriate
benchmark references;
            (2)   Name of the project;
            (3)   Name and address of the owner, developer and person who
prepared the plans;
            (4)   Total acreage within the project and the number of
residential dwelling units or the gross square footage of nonresidential
buildings, whichever is applicable;
            (5)   Existing zoning of the subject land and all adjacent lands;
            (6)   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of land, showing owners of
record;
            (7)   A key or vicinity map at a scale of one inch equals 400 feet
or less, showing the boundaries of the proposed project and covering the
general area within which it is to be located;
            (8)   A statement of the proposed uses, stating the type and size
of residential and nonresidential buildings, and the type of business,
commercial or industry, so as to reveal the effect of the project on traffic,
fire hazards or congestion of population;
            (9)   Proposed covenants, restrictions, bylaws or articles of
incorporation affecting property owners and/or homeowner’s associations; and
            (10)   Statement of proposed starting and completion dates for the
project, including any proposed phasing and sequencing.
         (b)   Existing site conditions.  The following information shall be
submitted as part of Sheet Two:
            (1)   Location, widths and type of construction of all existing
streets, street names, alleys or other public ways and easements, street
classifications as per the thoroughfare plan, railroad and utility rights-of-
way or easements, parks, wooded areas, cemeteries, watercourses, drainage
ditches, designated wetlands, low areas subject to flooding, permanent
buildings, bridges and other data considered pertinent by the Commission or the
Administrator for the subject land, and within 300 feet of the proposed
project;
            (2)   Existing water mains, fire hydrants, storm sewers, sanitary
sewers, culverts, bridges and other utility structures or facilities within,
adjacent to or serving the subject land, including pipe sizes, grades and exact
locations, as can best be obtained from public or private records;
            (3)   Existing contours based in United States Geological Survey
(USGS) datum with intervals of not more than five feet where the slope is
greater than 10% and not more than two feet where the slope is less than 10%.
Elevations shall be based on sea level datum; and
            (4)   The water elevation at the date of the survey of lakes,
streams or designated wetlands within the project or affecting it, as well as
the approximate high and low water elevation of lakes, streams or designated
wetlands. The plan shall also show the contour line of the regulatory flood
(100-year flood) elevation and the contour line for the floodway fringe and
floodway boundary. All elevations shall be based on sea level datum.
         (c)   Proposed site conditions.  The following information shall be
submitted as part of Sheet Three:
            (1)   Location, widths and type of construction of all existing and
proposed streets, street names, alleys or other public ways and easements,
railroad and utility rights-of-way or easements, parks, wooded areas,
cemeteries, watercourses, drainage ditches, designated wetlands, low areas
subject to flooding, permanent buildings, bridges and other data considered
pertinent by the Commission or the Administrator for the subject land, and
within 300 feet of the proposed project;
            (2)   Existing and proposed water mains, fire hydrants, storm
sewers, sanitary sewers, culverts, bridges and other utility structures or
facilities within, adjacent to, or serving the subject land, including pipe
sizes, grades and exact locations, as can best be obtained from public or
private records;
            (3)   Building setback lines, showing dimensions;
            (4)   Full description and details, including engineering
calculations, for provision of stormwater drainage plans and facilities,
including basin mapping. The standard for drainage detention is that the run-
off rate of a 100-year post-development event cannot exceed the rate for a ten-
year pre-development event;
            (5)   Internal and perimeter sidewalk system/pedestrian circulation
plan;
            (6)   Proposed contours with intervals of not more than five feet
where the slope is greater than 10% and not more than two feet where the slope
is less than 10%. The plan shall also show the contour line for the floodway
fringe and floodway boundary; and
            (7)   Show the location and detail plans for all trash dumpsters.
         (d)   Erosion control plan.  The following information shall be
submitted as part of Sheet Four:
            (1)   Location, widths and type of construction of all existing and
proposed streets, street names, alleys or other public ways and easements,
railroad and utility rights-of-way or easements, parks, wooded areas,
cemeteries, watercourses, drainage ditches, designated wetlands, low areas
subject to flooding, permanent buildings, bridges and other data considered
pertinent by the Commission or the Administrator for the subject land, and
within 300 feet of the proposed project;
            (2)   Proposed contours with intervals of not more than five feet
where the slope is greater than 10% and not more than two feet where the slope
is less than 10%;
            (3)   Details of terrain and area drainage, including the identity
and location of watercourses, intermittent and perennial streams, receiving
waters and springs, and the total acreage of land that will be disturbed;
            (4)   The direction of drainage flow and the approximate grade of
all existing or proposed streets;
            (5)   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed with, or as part of, the proposed project,
together with a map showing drainage area, the complete drainage network,
including outfall lines and natural drainage ways which may be affected by the
proposed development, and the estimated runoff of the area served by the
drains;
            (6)   A description of the methods to be employed in disposing of
soil and other material that is removed from the grading site, including the
location of the disposal site;
            (7)   Measures for soil erosion and sediment control which must
meet or exceed the methods and standards adopted by the State Department of
Natural Resources and/or set forth in the Indiana Handbook For Erosion Control
in Developing Areas and which must comply with the design principles,
performance standards and requirements set forth for the city in
Chapter 56: Stormwater Management, of Volume One of the city code, as amended;
            (8)   A schedule of the sequence of installation of planned erosion
and sediment control measures as related to the progress of the project,
including the total area of soil surface that is to be disturbed during each
stage, the anticipated starting and completion dates, and a schedule for the
maintenance of those measures;
            (9)   Include the following notes on the sheet:
               a.   “All erosion control practices shall be in accordance with
the State Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) Indiana Handbook For Erosion
Control In Developing Areas, dated October 1992 and the NRCS Field Office
Technical Guide;” and
               b.   The Planning and Zoning Administrator or his or her
designee has the right to require additional erosion control measures in the
field as conditions warrant.
            (10)   Copies of the letter of intent and response from the State
Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) office for Rule 5 compliance,
when required; and
            (11)   Any other information reasonably required by the Commission
or Administrator to properly evaluate the plan.
         (e)   Grading plan.  The following information shall be submitted:
            (1)   Major drainage swales and percents of slope;
            (2)   Pad grades;
            (3)   Street grades:
               a.   Centerline and curb if street is bituminous pavement with
concrete curb. Centerline only if streets are concrete and placed with
electronic control. (Maximum 50-foot spacing); and
               b.   All sag and crest points.
            (4)   Paved swales if any, at 50-foot intervals;
            (5)   Lake or pond, if applicable; and
            (6)   Locations of sidewalk ramps.
         (f)   Plan and profiles.  The following information shall be
submitted:
            (1)   Sanitary sewers:
               a.   Invert elevations and percents of slope;
               b.   Top of casting elevations;
               c.   Lateral locations based on distances along main from
manholes;
               d.   Locations of each manhole or structure (to make sure they
are sufficiently within designated easements to permit future excavation to
system if needed); and
               e.   Designate any material change from design plans. Where
plans show any alternatives, indicate alternative actually used.
            (2)   Storm sewers:
               a.   Invert elevations and percents of slope;
               b.   Top of casting elevations;
               c.   Location of pipe and structures (to make sure they are
within designated easements); and
               d.   Designate any material change from design plans. Where
plans show any alternatives, indicate alternate actually used.
            (3)   Streets:
               a.   Grades;
               b.   All low and high points;
               c.   All percents of slope;
               d.   Any deviation of alignment; and
               e.   Grades and dimensions on acceleration and deceleration
lanes if applicable.
         (g)   Landscape plan.  A landscape plan prepared to the standards
specified in §
7.8;
         (h)   Master sign plan.  A sign plan prepared to the standards
specified in §
7.7;
         (i)   Lighting plan.  A photometric plan prepared to the standards as
specified in §
7.15;
         (j)   Plat-like dedication sheet, if necessary.  The following
information shall be submitted for easements and rights-of-way if deemed
necessary by the Plan Commission or its authorized designee:
            (1)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
public use, or reserved for common use of all property owners within the
project, with the proposed conditions and maintenance requirements, if any,
shall be designated as such and clearly labeled on the plans;
            (2)   Radii, internal angles, points of curvature; tangent bearings
and lengths of all arcs, chord and chord bearings; and
            (3)   Accurate location of all survey monuments erected, corners
and other points established in the field in their proper places.
         (k)   Other required submittals.  The applicant shall be required to
submit written documentation of the following, when applicable:
            (1)   Utility encroachment approvals;
            (2)   City Stormwater Board approval;
            (3)   County Drainage Board approval;
            (4)   Other local, state and federal approvals, including other
city boards, commissions or departments;
            (5)   Inspection and testing agreements with the Board of Works and
Safety;
            (6)   Outside reviews as required by the city; and
            (7)   Easements and rights-of-way not on a plat-like document shall
be submitted in the form prescribed by the Board of Public Works and Safety and
include both a full legal description and a drawing exhibit.
   (D)   Technical Assistance Committee (TAC) review.
      (1)   The applicant shall refer to the application packet to determine
the procedures regarding Technical Assistance Committee.
      (2)   The applicant shall refer to the schedule of meeting dates to
determine the filing deadline for any given meeting of the TAC.
      (3)   Incomplete submittals may result in the application’s being held
off the TAC agenda to complete the submittal.
      (4)   The petitioner or his or her representative should be present at
the TAC meeting to address and discuss comments and concerns posed by the
committee members. Failure to appear may result in the application’s being
continued to the TAC agenda for the following month.
      (5)   Revisions. Following TAC review, the petitioner shall submit the
required number of complete sets that respond to the TAC’s comments and
concerns. Final revised plans shall be submitted at least ten-working days
prior to moving on to the next phase or the issuance of applicable permits. All
final plans shall include digital files in the necessary format to meet the
city’s computer system requirements.
   (E)   Rejection statement.  The Administrator may reject any submittal for
the following reasons:
      (1)   Incomplete application;
      (2)   The drawing set or supporting documents not complete nor stapled;
or
      (3)   Poor legibility.
   (F)   Plan Commission action on development plans.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall review a development plan to determine if
the development plan:
         (a)   Is consistent with the comprehensive plan; and
         (b)   Satisfies the development requirements specified in the unified
development ordinance.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may do the following:
         (a)   Impose conditions on the approval of a development plan if the
conditions are reasonably necessary to satisfy the development requirements
specified in the unified development ordinance for approval of the development
plan;
         (b)   Condition the approval of a development plan upon furnishing to
the Plan Commission a bond or written assurance:
            (1)   Guaranteeing the timely completion of public improvements in
the proposed development; and
            (2)   Is satisfactory to the Plan Commission.
         (c)   Deny the development plan because it does not comply with one or
more requirements of the unified development ordinance or with variances
expressly granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (G)   Deviation from the approved development plan.
      (1)   If the installation of the elements on the development plan
materially deviate from the approved development plan (as determined by the
Administrator), the site plan shall be resubmitted to the Plan Commission for a
new development plan approval in accordance with the procedures and
requirements for development plan approval. For the purposes of this section,
material deviation is one that:
         (a)   Adds, removes or reconfigures an internal street or relocates an
access point;
         (b)   Affects a condition of development plan approval that was
established by the Commission during the development plan approval stage;
         (c)   Reduces the area devoted to open spaces or buffer landscaping;
         (d)   Would require a waiver of the requirements and standards of
these regulations or would negate the basis for a modification that was
granted; or
         (e)   Involves the enlargement of a nonresidential building footprint
on the site due to future additions that are more than 10% of the gross floor
area or 5,000 square feet, whichever is less.
      (2)   Minor changes that do not constitute material deviation shall be
reviewed and approved by the Administrator staff.
   (H)   Financial assurances.  The city reserves the right to require
financial assurances to guarantee construction according to plans of all public
improvements proposed in a development plan and for certain private
improvements, including, but not limited to, site grading, drainage
improvements, erosion control, sanitary sewers, private streets, landscaping
and buffering or other improvements which may directly impact adjacent
properties or the health, safety or welfare of the general public. These
assurances of performance shall be in an amount and form as prescribed by the
city. Maintenance bonds shall be required for public improvements. Public
improvements shall be dedicated within two years of the date of Plan Commission
approval unless time extensions are granted by the city. If public improvements
are not dedicated within two years, the city may take any action deemed
necessary to ensure completion to a point of dedication.
   (I)   Record drawings and certificate of completion and compliance.
      (1)   Generally.  The developer or owner shall cause record drawings to
be prepared and submitted to the Administrator for all streets, drainage
ditches and facilities, utility pipes and structures and finished grade
elevations for the project. The record drawings shall be filed with the
Administrator prior to the release of any performance assurances. The recorded
drawings/plans shall be accompanied by a certificate of completion and
compliance properly executed in the form prescribed by the Commission by the
licensed engineer or surveyor preparing the development plan and/or record
drawings. Record drawings, including the approved final plat shall be submitted
on the forms specified by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   General requirements.  Plans are to contain a certification
statement that the improvements have been installed in reasonable compliance
with the original design plans with respect to horizontal locations and grades
and any deviations of locations, grade or material used are shown in these
record drawings. The certification is to be sealed and signed.
   (J)   Expiration deadlines.
      (1)   Approval of development plans shall expire two years from the date
of Plan Commission approval if necessary land improvements have not been
completed. The Plan Commission, at its discretion, may grant extensions for a
period up to two years.
      (2)   Bonded improvements must be completed within two years of issuance
of development plan approval.
      (3)   Request for extension must be submitted in writing stating the
justification for the extension.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 9.18  SUBDIVISION CONTROL PROCEDURES - GENERAL.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.  The purpose of this section is to guide the
applicant through the proper procedures in order to subdivide land and obtain
plat approval in accordance with the State Code.
   (B)   Plat approval authority.  The Plan Commission shall have exclusive
control over the approval of plats and replats of land within the corporate
limits of the city. The Plan Commission shall address and approve
administrative subdivisions, minor subdivisions and major subdivisions of land.
The Plan Commission may delegate approval of minor plats, secondary plats and
administrative subdivisions to the Plat Committee.
   (C)   Adoption and jurisdiction.  The Plan Commission hereby recommends to
the Common Council this ordinance containing provisions for subdivision
control, which ordinance shall be adopted, amended or repealed in the same
manner as other sections of the unified development ordinance.
   (D)   Condominiums. The subdivision control ordinance does not apply to
condominiums regulated by I.C. 32-25.
   (E)   Plat Committee established.  The Plan Commission may establish a Plat
Committee to review and decide petitions for minor plats, secondary plats and
administrative subdivisions.
      (1)   Membership.  Committee membership shall be divided into two
classes.
         (a)   Official members.  Official members shall consist of three or
five members. One of the members shall be a staff member representing the city
and the remaining members shall be members of the Plan Commission who are not
otherwise employed by the city, its subdivisions or instrumentalities.
         (b)   Ex officio members.  Ex officio members shall be the Technical
Assistance Committee (TAC).
      (2)   Appointment.  Each member shall be appointed by the Plan Commission
for one year.
      (3)   Removal.  The Commission may remove a member from the committee
upon mailing written reasons for removal to the member.
      (4)   Decisions.  The committee may take action only upon a majority
vote. In the event of any uncertainty as to compliance or classification of any
subdivision, the Plat Committee shall forward the subdivision to the Plan
Commission for consideration.
      (5)   Voting.  Only official members of the Plat Committee shall be
entitled to vote on matters requiring official action by the Plat Committee.
      (6)   Meetings.  The Plat Committee shall meet at least as often as once
each calendar month but not more than once per calendar week.
   (F)   Improvement credit procedure for improvements involving benefits to
others. Improvements set forth in
Chapter 8 which are required to be installed by the subdivider and are of a
public utility nature, may provide benefits to other properties in the vicinity
of the land to be subdivided. Upon the installation of improvements which cross
or adjoin other properties and can be used by the properties, the subdivider
and the city may by contract agree that upon the connection or use of the
installation made by the subdivider by another within a period of ten years
following their installation, the new user(s) shall pay a fee to the city in an
amount agreed upon by the subdivider and the city, the amount of the fee to be
credited to and paid to the subdivider.
   (G)   Applications.
      (1)   The applicant (subdivider) shall submit a written application for
approval of the overall primary plat to the Administrator. Subsequent to the
approval of the overall primary plat, an applicant shall submit an application
for a secondary plat. These applications shall be prepared on the forms
provided by the Administrator and accompanied by the information, requirements
and plans set forth in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.
      (2)   The applications shall be accompanied by a check or money order
made payable to the city in an amount determined by the schedule of fees,
available in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   No part of any filing fees shall be returnable to the applicant.
      (4)   For applications requiring review by the Technical Assistance
Committee, the required application forms and fees shall be submitted prior to
scheduling a meeting with the Committee.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.19  SUBDIVISION CONTROL PROCEDURES - MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Concept plan.  Major subdivisions require primary plat approval by the
Plan Commission. Before filing a plat for a major subdivision, applicants are
required to present a concept plan for the subdivision to the Technical
Assistance Committee (TAC) for informal discussion.
      (1)   Prior to submitting an application for a primary plat, the
subdivider shall first meet with city staff to acquaint the subdivider with
applicable plans and ordinances.
      (2)   The concept plan review is intended only for the above purposes;
neither the developer nor the city is bound by any decision made during this
review.
      (3)   All materials required by this section shall be submitted to the
Planning and Building Department in accordance with established procedures
available in the office.
      (4)   The concept plan should be drawn to scale and should include the
following:
         (a)   A legal description of the property;
         (b)   A location map, showing the parent tract and including any lots
previously subdivided from it;
         (c)   The location of all existing property lines, existing easements
and existing watercourses; location, width and names of existing platted
streets within or adjacent to the tract; and names of adjoining property owners
within 500 feet of the boundary of the proposed subdivision;
         (d)   Locations of existing utilities within the tract and immediately
adjacent thereto;
         (e)   Existing natural features and topographic or geologic
constraints and intent to preserve or incorporate these features into the final
plan;
         (f)   Approximate location and widths of proposed streets;
         (g)   Preliminary proposals for connection with existing water and
sewer systems; preliminary provisions for collecting and discharging surface
water drainage; and
         (h)   Approximate location and area of all parcels of land to be set
aside for park or playground use or other public use or for the use of the
property owners in the proposed subdivision.
      (5)   The Plan Commission may consider the failure to present a concept
plan to staff prior to the submission and review of the overall primary plat as
an improper form or an incomplete application.
   (B)   Primary plat.
      (1)   Submittal.  The subdivider shall provide an overall primary plat of
the subdivision, the design of which shall be in conformance to the
comprehensive plan, the thoroughfare plan, the unified development ordinance,
these subdivision regulations, and other city ordinances not in conflict with
these regulations. Further, the intent of the primary plat section is to ensure
that the statutory requirements established in the State Code for the
subdivision of land are met.
      (2)   Preparation.  The overall primary plat shall be prepared by a
professional engineer or land surveyor licensed in the state and drawn
according to the specifications set forth as follows.
      (3)   Plans and specifications.  The primary plat shall have the
following sheets and information.
         (a)   Title sheet:
            (1)   Proposed name of the subdivision, followed by the words:
“overall primary plat;”
            (2)   A site location map showing the location of highways, local/
county roads, rural routes, utilities, legal drains, floodplains, private drain
tile, open drains, watershed boundaries and any other physical features that
may have a bearing on proposed development (i.e., swamp, steep escarpments,
woods and the like);
            (3)   Names and addresses of the owner of the land, the subdivider,
planner, architect, engineer, land surveyor or other persons who prepared the
plan;
            (4)   Property owners and existing land use of adjacent land; and
            (5)   An index of sheets contained in the set.
         (b)   Topographic conditions:
            (1)   Contours at vertical intervals of two feet or less if the
slope of the site is less than 10% and at vertical intervals of five feet if
the general slope of the site is 10% or greater;
            (2)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to section, township and range lines;
            (3)   Plot and profile of existing drainage, drainage channels,
underground facilities, wooded areas, power transmission poles and lines and
any other significant items shall be shown;
            (4)   The location and size of all existing utilities; and
            (5)   All subdivision plats containing lands identified on the
official Flood Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) maps (as amended), or
determined by the State Department of Natural Resources to be flood-prone areas
shall have the elevation of the 100-year flood listed thereon.
         (c)   Plan layout sheet:
            (1)   Streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of the
proposed subdivision, with street names, sidewalks and other pertinent data;
            (2)   The layout of lots, showing dimensions and numbers and square
foot area of each lot. Block number, distances, radii and chords shall also be
shown;
            (3)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
            (4)   Building setback or front yard lines;
            (5)   Easements: locations, widths and purposes; and
            (6)   The “plan layout sheet” may be incorporated into the
“topographic sheet” provided the incorporation does not result in a drawing
which is illegible.
         (d)   Utility layout sheet:
            (1)   A drawing showing the locations of the proposed sanitary
sewers with connections to the main sewer system, lift stations, if any, and
other appurtenances, if any;
            (2)   A drawing showing the location of a public or quasi-public
source of water supply;
            (3)   A drawing showing the proposed method of drainage:
               a.   If storm sewers or similar type of system is used, show
connection to main system or method of disposition into stream, retention
reservoir and the like; distance to stream outlet; lift stations, if any; man
holes, if any; inlets; junction boxes; and other necessary appurtenances; and
               b.   If surface drainage is planned, show the following where
applicable: location and type of roadside swales, grassed waterways, water
courses and open ditches; roll curb and gutter sections; location and
approximate size of road culverts; location and typical cross-section of
grades, swales, waterways, roadside ditches and/or open ditches; approximate
depth and grades of above mentioned surface drainage; and necessary profiles,
cross-sections and other information to the adequacy of the outlet drain or
detention reservoir.
            (4)   Written statement concerning the location and approximate
size or capacity of utilities to be installed.
         (e)   Supplementary information:
            (1)   Phasing plan for any subdivision that is to occur in stages,
along with a proposed schedule for the phasing;
            (2)   Written statement of the proposed use of lots, stating type
of residential buildings with number of proposed dwelling units or type of
business or industry, so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic,
fire hazards or congestion of population;
            (3)   Proposed covenants and restrictions;
            (4)   Elevations or renderings of typical product to be constructed
in the subdivision;
            (5)   A national cooperative soil survey map from the Subdivision
Administrator or the local Soil and Water Conservation District showing the
soil limitations based upon the intended usage of the subdivision;
            (6)   Included in the application shall be a conservation plan
detailing the management of the soil, the water management plan for both
surface and subsurface drainage, and the method or methods used in controlling
erosion and sedimentation before, during and following construction, i.e.,
temporary seeding, siltation basins, mechanical erosion devices and other
similar means that meet
Chapter 56: Stormwater Management, of Volume One of the city code, for
guidelines for urban development. (See §§
56.055 through
56.058 for more information.)
            (7)   A written statement or letter from INDOT, the County Highway
Department or City Street Department concerning rights-of-way, road
improvements, roadside improvements, roadside drainage, entrances, culvert
pipes and other infrastructure improvements that impact this proposal;
            (8)   If legal drain is involved, a letter or written statement of
approval from the City Stormwater Board concerning easements, rights-of-way,
permits and the like;
            (9)   If floodway is involved, a letter or written statement from
the State Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water concerning
construction in floodway, including floodplain high water marks and the like;
            (10)   A drawing or written statement which shows or explains other
features or conditions which would impact the subdivision; and
            (11)   A fiscal impact analysis shall be prepared for all
residential subdivisions with 50 or more lots.
      (4)   Primary plat review and approval.
         (a)   Submittal.  The subdivider shall submit the required items
listed above in accordance with the procedures and time frame set forth in the
primary plat application and the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure. The
submittal shall be complete prior to being placed on any agenda. The primary
plat shall be reviewed with regard to the standards for the current zoning of
the property and not any anticipated zoning. The process should not run
concurrently with the rezoning for the subject parcel
         (b)   TAC agenda.  Staff will then put the project on the agenda for a
regularly scheduled meeting with the Technical Assistance Committee (TAC) for
the review of the overall primary plat. The purpose of the TAC review is to
ensure technical conformity with the city unified development ordinance.
         (c)   Plan Commission agenda.  After the primary plat has been
reviewed and the applicant has responded satisfactorily to the comments made by
the TAC, the Subdivision Administrator shall place the application for primary
plat approval on the agenda for the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Plan Commission.
         (d)   Notice.  The applicant shall publish a notice of the time and
place of the hearing and the location of the proposed plat, in accordance with
§
9.15 and the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure. The cost of the publication of
the notice of public hearing shall be met by the applicant.
         (e)   Hearing.  The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the
Rules of Procedure. The Plan Commission shall review the application and shall
study the “overall primary plat” to determine if it conforms to the minimum
standards and requirements as outlined in this ordinance. The Plan Commission
shall also consider:
            (1)   The written statement and supportive material submitted by
the petitioner;
            (2)   The testimony of the petitioner;
            (3)   Relevant evidence presented by other persons;
            (4)   The comprehensive plan;
            (5)   The City Construction Standards Manual;
            (6)   All information presented by the members of the Technical
Advisory Committee;
            (7)   The Planning and Zoning Administrator’s report; and
            (8)   Any other additional information as may be required by the
Plan Commission to evaluate the petition.
         (f)   Decision.  The Plan Commission shall prepare findings of fact
and:
            (1)   Approve the petition;
            (2)   Approve the petition with conditions and/or commitments;
            (3)   Deny the petition; and/or
            (4)   Continue the petition to a definite future meeting date.
         (g)   Commitments.  In conjunction with the approval of a primary
plat, the Plan Commission may permit or require the applicant to make written
commitments concerning the use or development of the parcel.
         (h)   Conditions of approval.  In conjunction with the approval of a
primary plat, the Plan Commission may impose conditions of approval concerning
the use or development of the parcel that will, in its judgment, substantially
secure the objectives of these ordinances.
         (i)   Upon denying an application, the Commission will not review the
overall primary plat until it is re-submitted, which cannot be done for a
minimum of six months.
         (j)   The approval of the overall primary plat by the Commission does
not constitute approval of any or all of the subdivision, but is merely an
authorization to proceed with preparation of a secondary plat.
         (k)   Following Plan Commission approval, the petitioner shall submit
revised copies of the plans that address the comments and concerns of the Plan
Commission and that are in conformance with the established procedures of the
Planning and Building Department.
         (l)   An approval of the overall primary plat shall be effective for a
period of 12 months unless, upon request of the applicant, the Commission
grants an extension of time. The application for a secondary plat shall be
submitted to the Commission, and if it is not received within the specified
period, all previous actions by the Commission with respect to the plat shall
be deemed to be null and void.
   (C)   Secondary plat.
      (1)   Purpose.  The following section provides guidelines for the
submittal of a secondary plat of a subdivision to ensure that the statutory
requirements established in the State Code for the subdivision of land are met.
The applicant shall submit an application for approval of the secondary plat,
engineering plans and specifications, and other required information to the
Planning and Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Phases.  The secondary plat may include all or any phase of an
approved overall primary plat. The applicant shall provide a description of the
phase of the approved overall primary plat intended to be filed for record,
including a phasing plan for the progressive development of the remaining area
contained in the approved overall primary plat.
      (3)   Review.  Upon receipt of a complete application, the Administrator
shall review the application for technical conformity with the standards in
this ordinance and then:
         (a)   Assign the secondary plat or replat to the Plat Committee for
approval; or
         (b)   Assign the secondary plat or replat to the Plan Commission for
approval.
      (4)   Preparation and contents.  The secondary plat submittal shall
contain the information as set forth in §
9.17 of this chapter. In addition, the submittal shall include:
         (a)   A statement of the estimated amount of money sufficient to
complete the improvements and installations by the subdivider and attested to
by a registered land surveyor or a registered professional engineer;
         (b)   Lot numbers and dimensions and lot area in square feet;
         (c)   Plans and specifications for the improvements required in this
ordinance;
         (d)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and
become covenants in the deeds for lots;
         (e)   Deed of dedication of streets and other public property;
         (f)   Certificate of primary plat approval by the Commission, as
provided by the Planning and Building Department;
         (g)   Certificate of approval by the City Board of Public Works and
Safety for improvements in subdivisions (when applicable); and
         (h)   Certificate of approval by the City Utilities Service Board for
improvements in subdivision (when applicable).
      (5)   Secondary plat approval.
         (a)   Required changes. The secondary plat will have incorporated all
changes or modifications required by the Commission, General Manager of the
Lebanon Utilities, Health Officer, County Soil and Water Conservation District
and County Surveyor; otherwise it shall conform to the overall primary plat as
approved by the Commission, and it may constitute only that portion of the
primary plat which the subdivider proposed to record and develop at the time,
provided that the portion conforms with all requirements of this ordinance and
meets the approval of the Commission.
         (b)   Time for filing.  The secondary plat shall be filed not later
than 12 months after the date of approval of the overall primary plat,
otherwise it will be considered void unless an extension is requested by the
developer and granted by the Commission in writing.
         (c)   Application.  Fifteen days before the Commission’s next
regularly scheduled meeting, the subdivider shall submit to the Subdivision
Administrator an application for approval of the secondary plat of the
subdivision, together with four copies of all material outlined above, as
requested by the Commission. Also, the original drawing, with signatures, and
eight-page-size (eight and one-half by 11) prints of the secondary plat shall
accompany this material.
         (d)   Examination, approval by the Subdivision Administrator.  The
secondary plat shall be considered officially filed after it is examined by the
Subdivision Administrator and is found to be in full compliance with the formal
provisions of this ordinance. To register his or her approval of the plat, the
Subdivision Administrator shall sign and date an approval statement on the
plat.
         (e)   Financial guarantees.
            (1)   Generally. Guarantees that all required improvements will be
constructed according to approved plans shall be a prerequisite to the filing
of a secondary plat for recording in the office of the Recorder of the county.
Approval of a secondary plat shall be subject to the improvements being
constructed and accepted for dedication or the appropriate financial guarantee
being posted with the Board of Public Works and Safety before recording. Copies
of these agreements shall be on file at the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
            (2)   Required notice from Board of Public Works and Safety.  When
the secondary plat is submitted to the Subdivision Administrator, it shall be
accompanied by a notice from the City Board of Works and Safety, stating that
there has been filed with and approved by that body, one of the following:
               a.   A certificate signed by an inspector from the Planning
Department, stating that he or she has inspected the improvements and
installations for the subdivision required for its approval, during and after
their construction and installation; and stating that they have been made or
installed in accordance with the approved specification; and that a three-year
maintenance bond has been provided for any improvements and installations
required by this ordinance, as is executed to the city. The maintenance bond
shall:
                  1.   Run to and be in favor of the city;
                  2.   Be in a penal sum of not less than $25,000 per mile of
streets in the subdivision to assure and guarantee the maintenance of all
improvements and installations during the three-year period, including, but not
limited to the following: streets to minimum city specifications, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers and water lines, lift stations, pumps, motors, connections
and main lines installed in the subdivision, sidewalks, shoulders, side slopes
and ditches, street signs, street lights and fire hydrants; provided that the
City Board of Works and Safety may reduce the penal sum set forth herein for
good cause if the intent of the maintenance bond provision is preserved;
                  3.   Include an amount for maintenance other than for streets
set forth above which shall be set by the Commission, but in no event shall the
penal sum of the maintenance bond covering additional installations be less
than 25% of the total cost of all of the improvements and installations in the
subdivision proposed for secondary plat approval; and
                  4.   Commence upon approval of the secondary plat.
               b.   A financial guarantee which shall:
                  1.   Run to the city;
                  2.   Be in an amount equal to 125% of the cost of the
improvements as specified in the subdivision improvement agreement;
                  3.   Be with surety satisfactory to the Commission; and
                  4.   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements
and installations, which shall be within two years from the date of the bond.
               c.   Specify that upon completion, but prior to acceptance by
the City Board of Public Works and Safety of any streets, a three-year
maintenance bond or other suitable agreement acceptable to the City Board of
Public Works and Safety covering the street improvements, and for all other
improvements and installations in the subdivision which shall run to the City
Board of Public Works and Safety, will be provided by the subdivider or
contractor of the street improvements to be effective as of the date of
acceptance by the City Board of Public Works and Safety. This maintenance bond
or other suitable agreement or financial guarantee shall satisfy the
requirements set forth for a three-year maintenance bond.
                  1.   Bonds.  The developer may furnish in lieu of the above
and the foregoing maintenance bond, bonds with his or her subcontractors which
comply with all of the requirements of the above and foregoing section.
                  2.   Release of financial guarantees.  The financial
guarantee referred to above shall not be released until the following has been
received: a certificate stating that the engineer or surveyor has inspected the
improvements and installations guaranteed by the bond during and after their
construction and that they have been made and installed in accordance with the
approved specifications. The certificate shall have been filed with the
Subdivision Administrator and the City Board of Public Works and Safety; and
shall have been signed by a registered professional engineer or registered land
surveyor, who has been approved by the City Board of Public Works and Safety.
            (3)   Release of bond.  Upon the acceptance of all streets in the
subdivision by the City Board of Public Works and Safety, and upon the
subsequent authorization of the City Board of Public Works and Safety for the
acceptance of the other improvements and installations covered by the
maintenance bond, the three-year maintenance bond or other suitable agreement
or financial guarantee may be released and the surety discharged of further
obligation for all time.
            (4)   Bond funds.  Any funds received from the bond required by
these regulations shall be used only for the purpose of making the
improvements, installations or repair for which the guarantees were provided,
in accordance with the standards, specifications and requirements of these
regulations.
         (f)   Completion affidavit.  Upon the acceptance of the improvements
and installations by the City Board of Works and Safety, the applicant shall
obtain a completion affidavit stating that the required improvements and
installations have been installed in compliance with the specifications of this
ordinance, and have been accepted for public maintenance; the completion
affidavit shall be filed with the Commission. (See Appendix.)
         (g)   Approval.  Within a reasonable time, not to exceeding 65 days
after application for approval of the secondary plat, the Administrator or his
or her designee shall approve or disapprove the secondary plat. The
Administrator may choose to refer the secondary plat approval request to the
Plan Commission. If approved the plat shall be stamped and signed by the
Administrator. The plat may then be filed for recording in the office of the
Recorder of the county, as required by law within six months. If the plat is
disapproved the Administrator shall set forth in writing the reason for the
disapproval in its own records and provide the applicant with a copy. The
applicant may refile after a period of one year, but he or she must show a
substantial change to the disapproved subdivision, as determined by the Plan
Commission.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Written commitments, see Title XV, §
9.14
§ 9.20  SUBDIVISION CONTROL PROCEDURES - MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General.  Subdivisions meeting the following conditions of eligibility
may be considered as minor subdivision, and with replats, shall be considered
under the provisions of this subsection. Minor subdivisions may receive primary
and secondary approval by the Plat Committee. The Subdivision Administrator’s
decision may be appealed to the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Conditions of eligibility.  Before determining that a subdivision is
eligible to be considered under this section, the Subdivision Administrator
shall find that all of the following criteria are satisfied.
      (1)   Division from parent tract.  The subdivision will not result in the
creation of more than four lots from a parent tract, whether at the same time
or over the course of time, shall be considered under minor subdivision review.
Any subdivision which would result in a cumulative total of four or more lots
in addition to the original parent tract shall be considered a major
subdivision, regardless of whether the three lots are created through one
subdivision or several subdivisions over time.
      (2)   Orderly development.  The subdivision will not impede orderly
development of land or the provision of public services and improvements.
         (a)   The subdivision will not interfere with the implementation of
the comprehensive plan.
         (b)   The subdivision will not interfere with the provision of streets
to provide access to adjoining or nearby property in the event that the
property is developed in the future.
      (3)   Utilities and drainage.  All parcels in the subdivision will have
adequate utilities and drainage.
         (a)   All lots shall be served by a sanitary sewer. Any subdivision of
land which requires the extension of existing sewers shall be considered as a
major subdivision.
         (b)   All lots shall be served by a public or quasi-public water
system. Any subdivision of land which requires the extension of existing water
shall be considered as a major subdivision.
         (c)   All lots shall be provided with drainage improvements in
compliance with the
Chapter 56: Stormwater Management, of Volume One of the city code, as amended.
      (4)   Access.  All parcels in the subdivision and adjacent land will have
adequate ingress and egress without the construction of any new streets or
substantial improvement to existing streets.
         (a)   All lots will have legal access to a platted private street or
to a public street which has been accepted for maintenance, or has been
continuously maintained for a period of ten years immediately preceding the
filing of the subdivision, by a public agency regularly having responsibility
for the maintenance. The public street shall also have a hard surface suitable
for vehicular traffic which complies with the thoroughfare plan.
         (b)   Frontage on limited access streets on which driveways cannot
open shall not constitute legal access.
         (c)   If by reason of topography, natural or human-made features or
other conditions relating to the property requested for subdivision, better
access can be provided through construction of a new street, the petition shall
be considered as a major subdivision.
         (d)   All lots will have driveway locations which will provide for
adequate sight distance and will be properly spaced according to city
standards.
         (e)   Land adjacent to the property involved in the subdivision shall
also have adequate access according to the criteria contained in this
subsection.
      (5)   Suitability.  All lots in the subdivision will provide suitable
building sites for the purpose for which the land is to be used. Land
suitability shall be determined by the criteria contained in §
8.2 of this ordinance.
      (6)   Endangerment.  The subdivision will not be detrimental to nor
endanger the public, health, safety or general welfare.
      (7)   Waivers.  The subdivision shall not require any waivers.
   (C)   Concept plan.  Submittal of a concept plan for a minor subdivision is
optional. The concept plan review process serves as an introduction to the
subdivision process and subdivision regulations for the applicant. Refer to §
9.19 for the concept plan procedure.
   (D)   Primary plat approval.
      (1)   Application.  Application shall be made to the Subdivision
Administrator on the appropriate forms, accompanied by the required filing fee.
The Subdivision Administrator will then determine whether or not the
subdivision qualifies for minor subdivision approval or whether it must be
filed as a major subdivision.
      (2)   Minor subdivision.  All subdivisions of land meeting the definition
of “Subdivision, Minor” in
Chapter 11 of this ordinance and verified by the Administrator may be submitted
to the Plat Committee or the Plan Commission for primary approval as specified
in this section.
      (3)   Required submission materials.  All requests for primary plat
approval of a minor subdivision shall be accompanied by the materials required
as set forth in §
9.19(B) of this ordinance.
      (4)   Supporting material.  The following supporting material, in
accordance with §
9.19(B), shall be submitted with the primary plat:
         (a)   The names and addresses of all adjacent land owners, keyed to a
map;
         (b)   A map showing all significant topographical and other features,
including water bodies, existing buildings, alleys, streets or other
information which will aid in the location of the property for site visits;
         (c)   Evidence that a sewerage permit can be obtained from the City
Utilities Department and evidence that water service is available to all
building lots in the subdivision;
         (d)   Documentation sufficient to show that all applicable design
standards of this ordinance are met by the proposed subdivision;
         (e)   Erosion control plan, if necessary;
         (f)   Drainage report, if necessary;
         (g)   Any covenants or other restrictions which will run with the land
included in the subdivision; and
         (h)   If any lot in a minor subdivision is to receive its access from
a state highway, evidence that a driveway permit can be issued by the State
Department of Transportation shall be submitted.
      (5)   Findings and decision.  Upon review of all the materials by the
Plat Committee, the Plat Committee shall make written findings of whether the
primary plat meets the standards of this ordinance and shall approve the
petition; approve the petition with conditions and/or commitments; deny the
petition; or continue the petition to a definite future meeting.
      (6)   Revisions.  Following Plat Committee approval, the applicant shall
submit revisions in conformance with the established procedures of the Planning
and Building Department.
      (7)   Length of approval.  Primary approval of a minor subdivision shall
be valid for 365 days, unless an extension is granted by the Plat Committee or
Commission. If secondary approval is not granted before the expiration of 365
days, the primary approval shall be null and void.
   (E)   Secondary plat approval.
      (1)   General.  After all conditions of primary approval have been met,
the applicant may request secondary approval from the Administrator or Plat
Committee. The Administrator may choose to refer the plat approval request to
the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Required submission materials.  All requests for secondary approval
shall be accompanied by the materials listed in this section:
         (a)   Secondary plat.  An original drawing prepared in accordance with
the standards set forth in §
9.19(C) and all information required above, as approved by the Plan Commission
or Plat Committee; and
         (b)   Supporting material.  Documentation sufficient to show that all
conditions of primary approval by the Commission or Plat Committee have been
met.
      (3)   Length of approval.  Secondary approval of a minor subdivision
shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of the approval. If the
subdivision is not recorded before the expiration of one year, it shall become
null and void.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 9.21  ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General.  Administrative subdivisions are subject only to the
agreement of the Plat Committee that the subdivision is within one of the
categories included in the definition of “Subdivision, Administrative,” in
Chapter 11: Definitions. Replats which meet the conditions of administrative
subdivisions also may be considered under the terms of this section.
   (B)   Filing fees.  A request for review of a subdivision shall be
accompanied by the filing fee established by the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Submission materials.  The following materials shall be submitted by
an applicant for approval of an administrative subdivision:
      (1)   Application signed by the owner(s) of record of all property
involved in the subdivision;
      (2)   A drawing drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one inch, or 100 feet to
one inch and on sheets not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches; however, if the
resulting drawing would be over 36 inches in the shortest dimension, then a
scale as recommended by the Subdivision Administrator may be used. The drawing
shall show the property involved in this subdivision, indicating the area of
each lot or parcel in acres (for parcels larger than 20,000 square feet) or
square feet and indicating the configuration of the property and any easements
thereon before and after the proposed administrative subdivision;
      (3)   Required approval certificates;
      (4)   For removal of interior lot lines, a legal description of the
property and the new lot number(s);
      (5)   For removal of platted easements, signed and notarized letters of
approval of the proposed action by all utilities having an interest in the
easements, and in the case of drainage easements, any neighboring property
owners affected by the easements. A notation shall be placed on the plat
indicating that the easement has been vacated;
      (6)   For changes in the notations on a previously approved plat, an
explanation of the reason(s) for the changes. If the Plat Committee finds that
the changes have a significant effect on the subdivision as previously
approved, the Plat Committee shall require the changes to be decided by the
Plan Commission;
      (7)   For division of land into cemetery plots, a plat of the cemetery
showing the layout of the cemetery, including private drives, parking areas and
the sizes of burial lots. The plat shall comply with the requirements of I.C.
23-14-8 and any amendments thereto;
      (8)   For divisions by court decree, a copy of the decree showing by
legal description how the land is to be divided;
      (9)   Sale or exchange of tracts between adjoining land owners:
         (a)   For sale or exchange of adjoining land where one or more of the
affected parcels is platted, a legal description and indication on the drawing
of the tract to be divided and the tract to be added and certification by a
registered land surveyor that monuments have been or will be set to indicate
the relocated property lines. If the land involved in the subdivision has not
been monumented, no monumentation is required;
         (b)   For sale or exchange of adjoining unplatted land, a legal
description and indication on the drawing of the tract to be divided and the
tract to be added;
         (c)   For subdivision where the purpose is to resolve a boundary
dispute or to establish a mutually agreed upon boundary line, an affidavit
signed by all affected property owners stating the purpose of the subdivision;
and
         (d)   At the time that an administrative subdivision as defined in
Chapter 11: Definitions is submitted for secondary approval, the submission
shall include quitclaim or warranty deed(s) containing the legal description
for each parcel of property for which ownership is transferred within and by
the administrative subdivision.
      (10)   For corrections of legal descriptions, an affidavit signed by the
affected owners stating that the description was in error, and a corrected
legal description. The correction shall be recorded, and an appropriate
notation shall be placed upon the previously recorded plat;
      (11)   For dedication or granting of easements for purposes other than
access, a legal description. The easements shall be recorded, and an
appropriate notation shall be placed on the recorded plat;
      (12)   For dedication of right-of-way or access easements, a legal
description and a plat showing the parcels and the location of the right-of-way
or easement. In addition, for right-of-way dedication, certification by a
registered land surveyor that monuments will be set indicating the relocated
property lines; and
      (13)   For division of a building site containing an existing dwelling
from an agricultural tract, evidence that the dwelling has been on the site for
at least ten years, and a survey by a registered land surveyor meeting the
minimum standards for surveys and preparation of plats, contained in §
8.6.
   (D)   Review procedure for administrative subdivisions.
      (1)   Discussions with staff.  Prior to submitting any of the materials
required by this section, the applicant or his or her representative is
encouraged to discuss with the Subdivision Administrator the nature of the land
division being proposed. Based upon the information provided at this
conference, the Subdivision Administrator will provide the applicant with a
preliminary opinion as to whether the proposed subdivision qualifies as an
administrative subdivision, and if not, which application and review procedure
applies to that type of subdivision. Failure to hold this conference and/or to
provide complete and accurate information to the city staff at this stage may
cause delays in formal consideration of the subdivision.
      (2)   Application and fees.  An application for approval of an
administrative subdivision shall be filed with the Planning and Building
Department together with all required materials. The fee, as set by the Plan
Commission, shall be paid at the time of filing.
      (3)   Plat Committee.  The Plat Committee has been assigned by the Plan
Commission to review and decide administrative subdivision petitions. In the
event of any uncertainty as to compliance or classification of any subdivision,
the Plat Committee shall forward the subdivision to the Plan Commission for
consideration.
      (4)   Review. The Plat Committee shall review the plat for compliance
with the unified development ordinance for the city. The Subdivision
Administrator may review the application for compliance with this section, and
provide a recommendation to the Plat Committee.
      (5)   Site visit.  Plat Committee members, city officials, staff or their
representatives, at their discretion, may visit the site at any time during the
review process.
      (6)   Consultation.  Plat Committee members, city officials, staff or
their representatives shall consult with any other persons and agencies
necessary to make an accurate determination of the compliance of the
application with the terms of this section.
      (7)   Action.  Action by the Plat Committee on an administrative
subdivision shall be by a majority vote.
      (8)   Public notification.  Approval may be granted to an administrative
subdivision by the Plat Committee without public notice and hearing. Within ten
days after approval by the Plat Committee, the Subdivision Administrator shall
provide due notice by mail to adjacent property owners and the petitioner(s).
The notice shall include a notification of the right to appeal the Plat
Committee’s decision.
      (9)   Comment period.  Adjacent property owners and the petitioner(s)
shall have a ten-day comment period from the date the notice is mailed, within
which any notice of appeal must be filed with the Subdivision Administrator.
      (10)   Appeal.  Appeal shall be governed in accordance with the following
section:
         (a)   Plat Committee decision.  Any final decision of the Plat
Committee may be appealed to the Plan Commission. The notice of final decision
shall contain the date of mailing thereon. Appeal may be initiated by the
applicant, or any property owner affected by the final decision. The appeal
shall be directed to the Plan Commission, and shall be filed with the
Subdivision Administrator. If the expiration of the ten-day comment period
occurs on a Saturday, Sunday or recognized city holiday, then the expiration
date shall be extended to include the next business day thereafter following.
         (b)   Public hearing.  Appeal of the Plat Committee final decision
shall be heard by the Plan Commission at a regularly scheduled public hearing,
or in accordance with Commission rules at a special meeting of the Plan
Commission. The hearing shall take place within 45 days after the filing of an
appeal with the Subdivision Administrator, and the Plan Commission shall render
its written final decision within 15 days after the hearing. With the consent
of the applicant and the Plan Commission, the hearing day may be extended.
         (c)   Plan Commission decision.  A final decision of the Plan
Commission may be appealed to the Circuit Court or Superior Court of the
county. The appeal shall be through a petition for writ of certiorari filed
with the clerk of the appropriate court within 30 days after the date of the
final decision. The petition shall in all respects conform to state law.
      (11)   Approval certificate.  The Chairperson and Secretary of the Plat
Committee are authorized to sign the approved administrative plat.
      (12)   Length of approval for administrative subdivisions.
         (a)   The approved administrative subdivision shall be recorded in the
County Recorder’s office within 120 days of certification by the Plat
Committee. Any subdivision and certification not recorded within that period
shall become null and void.
         (b)   The approved administrative subdivision and any deed as required
by this section shall be recorded concurrently in the County Recorder’s office
within 120 days of certification by the Plat Committee. Any  subdivision, deed
(s) and certification not recorded within that period shall become null and
void.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Board of Zoning Appeals, see Title XV, §
2.4
§ 9.22  AS-BUILT PLANS/RECORD DRAWINGS.
   (A)   Submission of plans.  After completion of all public improvements such
as streets, drainage ditches, structures and facilities, utility pipes and the
like, but prior to their acceptance by the City Board of Works and Safety, the
applicant shall provide the Administrator with a set of record drawings
including one digital copy of the drawings, in a format as specified by the
city. The record shall show the actual locations and specifications of all
improvements installed in the subdivision. These as-built plans shall be
accompanied by a certificate of compliance and completion, sealed and signed,
prescribed and certified as correct by a land surveyor or engineer licensed in
the state.
   (B)   Acceptance of public improvements.  Upon completion of construction,
the applicant may file a written request to the City Board of Works and Safety
for acceptance of all public improvements. Absolutely no public improvements
shall be accepted by the city without prior submission of as-built plans.
   (C)   Penalties and fines.  Failure to provide correct as-built plans to the
city shall result in penalties and fines as described in
Chapter 10.
   (D)   Approval forms.  All agreements, bonds and certificates of approval
required by this ordinance shall be submitted on the forms found at the City
Planning and Building Department offices or on the city’s website.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 9.23  DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS VARIANCE.
   (A)   Procedure.  In no case shall any variance to the terms of this
ordinance be authorized without the approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals
(BZA). Further, no decisions on previous applications shall serve to set a
precedent for any other application before the BZA. The following procedure
shall apply to all variance applications.
      (1)   Application.  The applicant shall submit a variance application,
affidavit and consent of property owner (if the owner is someone other than the
applicant), a copy of the deed for the property involved, the required filing
fee and required supporting information. Supporting information shall include,
but not be limited to, the following.
         (a)   Site plan.  A site plan shall be signed and dated. The site plan
shall be drawn to scale and/or fully dimensioned to the satisfaction of the
Planning Director and clearly show the entire layout of the property with all
features relevant to the variance request.
         (b)   Statement of intent.  A statement of intent to the Board of
Zoning Appeals describing the details of the variance being requested and
stating how the request is consistent with the required findings of fact. The
statement should include any written commitments being made by the applicant.
      (2)   Notification.  Notification for the scheduled public hearing
regarding the variance request shall be completed consistent with §
9.15 and the Rules of Procedure of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   Public hearing.  The BZA will then, in a public hearing, review the
variance application and required supporting information.
         (a)   Representation.  The applicant and any representative of the
applicant must be present at the public hearing to present the petition and
address the required findings of fact.
         (b)   Testimony. The Board shall consider a report from the Planning
and Zoning Administrator and testimony from the applicant, remonstrators, the
public and interested parties at the hearing.
         (c)   Procedures. The presentation of reports and testimony and all
other aspects of the public hearing shall be consistent with the Rules of
Procedure of the Board.
         (d)   Possible action. The BZA may approve, approve with conditions,
deny or continue the application in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-918.4.
            (1)   Approval.  The application shall be approved if a
determination in writing is made consistent with the decision criteria listed
in subsection (A)(4) below.
            (2)   Approval with modifications.  The application shall be
approved with modifications if the Board of Zoning Appeals determines that the
requirements of subsection (A)(4) below may be met if certain conditions are
applied to the application. The Board may make reasonable conditions related to
the required decision criteria in subsection (A)(4) below, part of its approval
and/or accept written commitments from the applicant.
            (3)   Denial.  The application shall be denied if a determination
in writing consistent with the decision criteria listed in subsection (A)(4)
below is not met. Applications that are denied shall not be eligible for
consideration again by the Board for a period of 12 months from the date of
denial.
            (4)   Continued.  The application may be continued by the Board
based on a request by the Administrator, applicant, remonstrator or interested
party; an indecisive vote; or a determination by the Board that additional
information is required prior to action being taken on the request.
               a.   Additional legal notice shall not be required unless
specified by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
               b.   The continuing of all applications shall be consistent with
the adopted Rules of Procedure of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (4)   Decision criteria.
         (a)   Generally.  In taking action on all variance requests, the Board
shall use the following decision criteria, consistent with the requirements of
the State Code.
         (b)   Development standards variance.  The Board may grant a variance
from the development standards of this ordinance (such as height, bulk, area)
if, after a public hearing, it makes a determination in writing (consistent
with I.C. 36-7-4-918.5), that the following requirements will be met:
            (1)   General welfare.  The approval will not be injurious to the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community;
            (2)   Adjacent property.  The use and value of the area adjacent to
the property included in the variance will not be affected in a substantially
adverse manner; and
            (3)   Practical difficulty.  The strict application of the terms of
this ordinance will result in a practical difficulty in the use of the
property. This situation shall not be self-imposed, nor be based on a perceived
reduction of, or restriction on, economic gain.
      (5)   Conditions.  The Board may impose reasonable conditions upon its
approval as it deems necessary to find that the decision criteria for approval
have been met.
      (6)   Commitments.  The Board may require the owner of the property to
make written commitments concerning the use or development of the property as
specified under I.C. 36-7-4-921. These commitments shall be recorded in the
County Recorder’s office. A copy of the recorded commitments shall be provided
to the Planning and Zoning Administrator for inclusion in the petition file at
the time of application for an improvement location permit. No improvement
location permit shall be issued for a permit application which does not comply
with the recorded commitments.
      (7)   Limitations.  The following limitations shall apply to the
execution of a variance approval.
         (a)   Development standards variance.  A development standards
variance granted by the Board and executed in a timely manner as described in
this section shall run with the parcel until the property conforms with
ordinance as written.
   (B)   Use variance criteria and procedures.  The Board of Zoning Appeals may
approve or deny variances of the unified development ordinance. The Board may
impose reasonable conditions as a part of its approval. A variance may be
approved under this section only upon a determination in writing that:
      (1)   Approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety, morals
and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
      (3)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to
the property involved;
      (4)   The strict application of the terms of the unified development
ordinance will constitute an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property
for which the variance is sought; and
      (5)   The approval does not substantially interfere with the
comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-13-2009)
§ 9.24  SUBDIVISION CONTROL WAIVER.
   (A)   Authority.  The Plan Commission may, in its discretion, authorize and
approve subdivision and Overlay District waivers from the requirements and
standards as specified in Chapters 6 and 8.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   At the time of filing a subdivision application, consistent with
this ordinance, the applicant must submit a detailed written statement
documenting all waivers requested as part of the application and reasons for
the waiver request(s) consistent with the decision criteria outlined in §
9.23(A)(4). The waiver requests may be modified and added to by the applicant
at any time prior to public notice of the subdivision request being provided.
      (2)   The applicant shall describe the requested waivers and shall submit
proposed findings of fact in support of each requested modification. The
applicant shall bear the burden of establishing a sufficient factual basis for
each requested modification.
      (3)   The applicant ay be asked to submit additional information as
required to evaluate the application.
      (4)   The Planning and Building Department and the Technical Assistance
Committee shall review the application and supporting documents for conformity
with the unified development ordinance.
   (C)   Plan Commission.  Upon completing the review, the requested waiver(s)
shall be heard at the Plan Commission in conjunction with the primary plat.
      (1)   Responsibility.  The petitioner shall be responsible for publishing
and mailing public notice and returning proof of mailed published notice
pursuant to the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure and §
9.15 of this ordinance.
      (2)   Limitations.  Only those waivers specifically described in the
public notice may be considered by the Plan Commission.
      (3)   Conditions.  Waivers may only be granted in a public hearing, and
shall be considered at the time of the primary plat review by the Commission.
The Commission may make reasonable conditions an element of any waiver
approval.
      (4)   Granting of waivers.  The Commission may grant waivers to the
requirements and standards of this ordinance as will not be contrary to the
public interest, where owing to extraordinary conditions, fully demonstrated by
the applicant on the basis of facts presented, strict compliance with the
provisions of this ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship or misuse of
property.
      (5)   Criteria for waivers.  In the exercise of its authority under this
section, the Plan Commission shall grant waivers only upon finding all of the
following:
         (a)   The waiver will not be detrimental to the public health, safety
or general welfare;
         (b)   The waiver will not adversely affect adjacent property;
         (c)   The waiver is justified because of exceptional topographic or
other physical conditions unique to the property involved and is not to correct
mere inconvenience or financial disadvantage;
         (d)   The waiver is consistent with the intent of this and other
applicable ordinances and the comprehensive plan;
         (e)   The condition necessitating the waiver was not created by the
owner or applicant;
         (f)   The waiver will not conflict with the powers and duties of the
Board of Zoning Appeals as defined by this ordinance; and
         (g)   The practical difficulties cannot be overcome through reasonable
design alternatives.
   (D)   Decision.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall:
         (a)   Approve the petition;
         (b)   Approve the petition with conditions and/or commitments;
         (c)   Deny the petition; or
         (d)   Continue the petition to a definite future meeting date.
      (2)   In approving waivers, the Commission may impose those conditions as
will, in its judgment, substantially secure the objectives of these
regulations.
      (3)   With respect to each requested waiver and each imposed condition,
the Commission shall prepare and approve written findings of fact. These
findings shall address each of the conclusory findings set forth in subsection
(A) above and shall cite the specific facts that support each of the conclusory
findings and that support each of the imposed conditions.
      (4)   The Commission’s decision to grant or deny a modification or to
impose a condition is discretionary.
   (E)   Commitments; acceptance.  In conjunction with the approval of a
subdivision waiver, the Plan Commission may permit or require the petitioner to
make written commitments concerning the use or development of the parcel.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Citation for written commitment violations, see Title XV, §
10.4
CHAPTER 10:  ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
Section
   
10.1   Violations
   
10.2   Citation for civil zoning violations
   
10.3   Trial for civil zoning violations
   
10.4   Citation for written commitment violations; procedure
   
10.5   Immediate public risk violations
   
10.6   Construction process violations
   
10.7   Monetary fine and penalties
   
10.8   Subdivision violations and penalties
§ 10.1  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Complaints.  Whenever a violation occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may cite a written complaint. The complaint stating fully
the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee.
   (B)   Investigation.  The Administrator shall properly record the complaint
and immediately investigate. The Administrator may inspect the property in
question from the right-of-way, from an adjacent property with permission of
that property owner, and from the property suspected of violation once the
Administrator has presented sufficient evidence. If acts elicited by the
investigation are sufficient to establish a reasonable belief that a violation
has occurred on the part of the party investigated, the Administrator shall
proceed with the remedies for civil zoning violations as set forth in this
chapter.
   (C)   Authority of Administrator to institute action.  In case any building
or structure is, or is intended to be erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered or converted, or any building structure or premises is, or is intended
to be used in violation of, or contrary to the provisions of this ordinance,
the Administrator is hereby authorized, in addition to other remedies set forth
in the statutes of the state and in this ordinance, to institute an action to
enjoin or to take any other appropriate action or proceeding in order to
prevent erection, construction, alteration, conversion or use.
   (D)   Court ordered entry.  In the event that the owner or occupant of the
premises refuses to permit entry to the Administrator or inspectors when entry
is sought pursuant to this section, the Administrator may petition any judge of
the City Court, or any other court of jurisdiction, for the issuance of an
administrative search warrant. The petition shall identify the premises upon
which entry is sought and the purpose for which entry is desired. The petition
shall state the facts giving rise to the belief that a condition which is in
violation of this ordinance on the premises, or that a violation in fact exists
and must be abated, and that the condition or violation is not a lawful
nonconforming use to the best of the affiant’s belief. Any warrant issued
pursuant to the petition shall order the owner or occupant to permit entry to
the Administrator or inspectors for the purposes stated therein.
   (E)   Common nuisances.  Any building erected, raised or converted, or land
or premises used in violation of any provision of this ordinance, or regulation
thereof, is hereby declared to be a common nuisance, and the owner thereof
shall be liable for maintaining a common nuisance, which may be restrained or
enjoined or abated in any appropriate action or proceeding under existing law.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 10.2  CITATION FOR CIVIL ZONING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Issuing and serving.  The Administrator or his or her duly authorized
designees may issue a civil zoning violation to a person who commits a civil
zoning violation to the legal owner, the contract vendee, or any person or
entity with a possessory interest in the real estate upon which the violation
occurs. The citation may be served by personal service, by certified mail, or
by placement in a conspicuous place on the property where the violation occurs
and shall serve as notice to a person that he or she has committed a civil
zoning violation.
   (B)   First offense.  No citation shall be issued for the first offense
unless the person who commits a civil zoning violation, or the legal owner, the
contract vendee or any person or entity with a possessory interest in the real
estate upon which the violation occurs has been issued a warning ticket not
less than 14 days before the issuance of the citation to allow the person to
correct the violation to come into compliance with the prescribed unified
development ordinance or regulations.
   (C)   Petition for variance, rezoning or other means.  A person who receives
a warning ticket or a citation may file a petition for a variance, conditional
use permit, rezoning or other means provided by this ordinance to correct the
violation. A person who elects to file a petition shall indicate this intent on
the warning ticket or citation and return it to the issuing agency. A person
shall have ten days after issuance of the warning ticket to file the petition,
and additional monetary fines as prescribed in §
10.7 of this chapter shall be stayed upon the filing of the petition. A person
who files the petition within the time period shall pursue the petition in an
expeditious fashion. If the petition is denied, withdrawn or dismissed for want
of prosecution, and the civil zoning violation continues at the real estate,
then a lawsuit will be commenced by the designated enforcement entity (BZA) in
a court of competent jurisdiction in the county.
   (D)   Warning ticket contents.  The warning ticket shall include:
      (1)   Date;
      (2)   Name and address;
      (3)   Section number in violation and name of code;
      (4)   Nature of violation;
      (5)   Specific time allowed to bring the violative activity into
compliance;
      (6)   Name, business address and phone number of person issuing warning
ticket; and
      (7)   Statement to violator of option to appear before the City Board of
Zoning Appeals to file a petition.
   (E)   Citation contents.  The citation shall appear on serialized,
designated form and include:
      (1)   Date;
      (2)   Name and address;
      (3)   Section number in violation and name of code;
      (4)   Nature of violation;
      (5)   Place and date the violation was observed;
      (6)   Amount of fine assessed;
      (7)   Time, manner and location to pay fine;
      (8)   Notice that each day is a new violation;
      (9)   Name, business address and phone number of person issuing citation;
and
      (10)   Statement to violator of right to elect trial.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 10.3  TRIAL FOR CIVIL ZONING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Procedure.  A person who receives a citation may elect to stand trial
for the offense by indicating on the citation his or her intent to stand trial
and returning a copy of the citation to the issuing agency. The returned copy
of the citation shall serve as notice of the person’s intent to stand trial,
and additional monetary fines prescribed in §
10.7 shall be stayed upon receipt of the notice. The notice shall be given at
least seven days before the date of payment set forth on the citation. On
receipt of the notice of intention to stand trial, a lawsuit will be commenced
by the City Attorney in a court of competent jurisdiction in the county. The
matter shall be scheduled for trial, and a summons and order to appear shall be
served upon the defendant.
   (B)   Failure to pay fines.  If a person who receives a citation fails to
pay the assessed fine by the date of payment set forth in the citation and
fails to give notice of his or her intention to stand trial as prescribed in
this section, the City Attorney may file a civil lawsuit as proscribed by
applicable laws and seek penalties as prescribed in §
10.7.
   (C)   Court cost and fees.  A person adjudged to have committed a civil
zoning violation is liable for the court costs and fees. No cost shall be
assessed against the enforcement agency in any such action.
   (D)   Burden.  In proceedings before the court for a civil zoning violation,
the Indiana Rules of Trial Procedure shall govern. The designated enforcement
entity (BZA) has the burden of proving the civil zoning violation by a
preponderance of the evidence.
   (E)   Relief or remedy.  Seeking a civil penalty as authorized by this
section does not preclude the city from seeking alternative relief from the
court in the same action, or from seeking injunctive relief or other remedy in
a separate action for the enforcement of this ordinance.
   (F)   Change of venue.  A change of venue from the county shall not be
granted in such a case, as provided in I.C. 36-7-4-1014.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 10.4  CITATION FOR WRITTEN COMMITMENT VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURE.
   At the discretion of the Plan Commission, the Administrator or his or her
duly authorized designees may issue a citation to a person who commits a
violation of written commitments, and to the legal owner, the contract vendee,
or any person or entity with a possessory interest in the real estate upon
which the violation occurs.
   (A)   The citation may be served by personal service, by certified mail or
by placement in a conspicuous place on the property where the violation occurs
and shall serve as notice to a person that he or she has committed a violation
of written commitments.
   (B)   The city shall enforce commitments made as part of plan/plat approval.
   (C)   The city may elect, but is not obligated, to enforce covenants when
the violation has a severe negative impact on property values, health, safety
or the general welfare of adjacent property owners.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 10.5  IMMEDIATE PUBLIC RISK VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   General requirements.  Any violation of this ordinance that presents
an immediate risk to the health, safety or welfare of the public or to property
within the city may be corrected by the Administrator, or a person, firm or
organization selected by the Administrator without prior notice to the property
owner or other person responsible for the violation.
   (B)   Immediate public risk violation defined.  Immediate public risk
violations shall include but not limited to:
      (1)   Obstructions.  Signs, structures, landscaping or other materials
placed in an easement, sight visibility triangle or other non-public right-of-
way in violation of this ordinance;
      (2)   Distractions.  Any sign, structure, landscaping or other material
located on private property that serves to distract or inhibit operators of
motor vehicles on adjacent public streets, pedestrians or other members of the
general public; and
      (3)   Other threats.  Any other immediate threat to public welfare as
determined by any representative of the city or by the Board of Zoning Appeals
based upon the advice and recommendation of the Administrator.
   (C)   Seizure of materials.  Any sign, structure, landscaping or other
material that constitutes an immediate public risk violation may be seized by
the Administrator in a manner that results in the least amount of damage to the
material or the property on which it is located under the circumstances.
   (D)   Notice of violation.  The Administrator shall provide notice to the
owner of the property, as listed in the records of the Clerk Treasurer’s
office, upon which the violation was located, or any discernible appropriate
owner of materials placed within the right-of-way in violation of this
ordinance, by placing a notice in a conspicuous place on the property and by
mailing a letter to that property owner.
      (1)   Notice time requirements.  All notice letters shall be sent to the
property owner via certified mail within 24 hours of the seizure. Any notice
that is to be posted on the property shall be posted at the time the material
is seized.
      (2)   Notice contents.  The letter and posted notice shall include the
following:
         (a)   A description of the materials seized;
         (b)   A citation of the section(s) of the ordinance that were violated
and the characteristic(s) of the violation that posed an immediate threat to
public welfare;
         (c)   The address and phone number of the Administrator and the name
of the person to be contacted by the property owner to discuss the violation
and request the return of the seized item(s); and
         (d)   Instructions describing how, where and when the seized items may
be claimed.
   (E)   Storage and retrieval of seized materials.  The Administrator shall
store any sign, structure, landscape materials or other items seized in a
secure location for a period of no less than 30 days from the date notice was
mailed to the property owner. The property owner may claim the seized property
at any time following its seizure upon the payment of the fine specified on the
fee schedule and the establishment of a memorandum of agreement between the
property owner and Administrator regarding the future use of the item in a
manner consistent with this ordinance.
   (F)   Liability.  Neither the Administrator, city nor any other official or
entity involved in the seizure shall be liable for any damage to the seized
materials or the property from which they were taken.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 10.6  CONSTRUCTION PROCESS VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Stop-work orders.  The Planning and Zoning Administrator may place a
stop-work order on any land/property improvement process.
      (1)   Procedure.  Stop-work orders shall be issued by written letter that
shall state the nature of the violation and that the work and/or any other
illegal activity must stop immediately until the matter is resolved. If someone
other than the property owner occupies the property, a copy of the stop work
order shall be provided to the occupant(s). This letter shall be posted in a
conspicuous place and be delivered/mailed to the property owner.
      (2)   Reasons.  Reasons for a stop-work order include, but are not
limited to:
         (a)   Not complying with any element of the development standards and/
or any regulation of the unified development ordinance;
         (b)   Not obtaining an improvement location permit or any other
required permit or approval prior to the construction or installation of any
improvement for which an approval or permit is required by this ordinance;
         (c)   Not completing structures or other improvements consistent with
any approved improvement location permit, variance, conditional use or other
approval;
         (d)   Not meeting the conditions or commitments of a conditional use,
variance, rezoning or other approval whether recorded or not;
         (e)   Not meeting the conditions of a site development plan, planned
unit development detailed plan or any written commitment associated therewith;
and
         (f)   Illegal use or expansion of use of structures or structures and
land in combination.
   (B)   Appeals.  Any stop-work order issued as a result of the enforcement of
this ordinance, may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals. This appeal
shall follow the provisions established for administrative appeals.
   (C)   Resumption of construction activity.  The stop-work order shall be
lifted and construction activity may resume upon the resolution of the
violation(s) to the satisfaction of the Administrator.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 10.7  MONETARY FINE AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Applicability.  Any person who uses property in violation of the
unified development ordinance of the city shall be deemed to have committed a
civil zoning violation and may be issued a citation by City Code Enforcement.
   (B)   Citation and fine.  Each day a violation remains uncorrected is a
distinct and separate civil zoning violation subject to an additional citation
and fine in the amount prescribed below, provided a warning ticket has first
been issued pursuant to §
10.2.
      (1)   Any person held liable by a court of competent jurisdiction for a
violation of the unified development ordinance of the city shall be fined not
less than $100 and not more than $2,500 for each violation.
      (2)   The monetary fine for each civil zoning violation shall range from
$100 to $2,500 per day from the date of compliance requested by the
Administrator in the notice of violation.
   (C)   Payment of fines.  All fines prescribed by this section for civil
zoning violations shall be paid to the Administrator, who shall render to the
person making the payment a receipt stating the amount and purpose for which
the fine has been paid, and duplicate of which shall be made a part of the
records of the Plan Commission. All fines thus received shall be forwarded to
the City Clerk-Treasurer for deposit in the General Fund.
   (D)   Accountability.  The owner or tenant of any building, structure,
premises or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, realtor,
agent or other person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains a
violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the
penalties herein provided.
   (E)   Cost of attorney, investigation and other fees.  If the Board of
Zoning Appeals or the city is required to utilize the services or the City
Attorney or any other attorney in investigating a possible violation of this
ordinance or in enforcing the provisions of this ordinance pursuant to this
section or any other section, and the investigation results in a determination
that a violation has occurred, or if the Board of Zoning Appeals or city is
successful in its enforcement of the ordinance by way of suit, appeal or other
appropriate proceeding; the respondent, defendant or party investigated for a
violation shall pay the city’s reasonable attorney’s fees and all costs related
to the investigation of the violation and/or the enforcement of this ordinance,
unless the attorney fees or the costs are specifically waived by the Common
Council of the city.
   (F)   Waiving fines.  The Administrator may, at his or her discretion, waive
the assessed fine for timely correction of the violation.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 10.8  SUBDIVISION VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violation and fine.  Any person or corporation who shall violate any
of the provisions of this ordinance or fail to comply therewith or with any of
the requirements thereof, or who shall build, reconstruct or structurally alter
any building in violation of any detailed statement or plan submitted and
approved thereunder shall, for each and every violation or noncompliance, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $100
and not more than $300. Each day that the violation or noncompliance shall be
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Construction without permit.  Any person who shall initiate
construction prior to obtaining any permit required by
Chapter 9 of this ordinance, shall pay twice (2x) the amount of the filing fee
set forth herein.
   (C)   Failure to provide as-built plans.  Failure to provide correct as-
built plans to the city within two months of the completion of public
improvements shall be considered a violation of this ordinance. Applicants who
fail to provide these plans within the specified time period shall be guilty of
an infraction, and upon conviction, shall be fined in the sum of not less than
$100 and not more than $300 per day for each violation. Each day of violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Accountability.  The owner or tenant of any building, structure,
premises or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, realtor,
subdivider, agent or other person who commits, participates in, assists in or
maintains the violation may each be found guilty of a separate offense and
suffer the penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007)
CHAPTER 11:  DEFINITIONS
Section
   
11.1   Definitions
§ 11.1  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT.  To intentionally stop the use or development of a property for
a continuous period of time.
   ABUTTING.  Having a common border, including being separated from a common
border by a right-of-way, street, alley, easement, body of water or other
feature. In some cases, where specified by this ordinance, ABUTTING also
includes lots or other features within a specific vicinity.
   ACCESS POINT.  A driveway or other means of physical connection for the
movement of vehicles or persons between a property and an adjacent property or
street.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  See STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY.
   ACCESSORY USE.  See USE, ACCESSORY.
   ACRE.  A land area equal to 43,560 square feet.
   ACREAGE, GROSS.  The total area within a parcel of land.
   ADDITION.  Any construction that increases the size of a structure in terms
of site coverage, floor area, volume and/or height.
   ADDRESS.  The number or other designation assigned to a housing unit,
business establishment, other structure or lot for the purposes of mail
delivery, emergency services and general identification.
   ADJACENT.  See ABUTTING.
   ADJOINING.  See ABUTTING.
   ADMINISTRATIVE/PROFESSIONAL OFFICE.  An office establishment primarily
engaged in overall management and general supervisory functions, such as
executive, personnel, finance, legal and sales activities.
   ADMINISTRATOR, PLANNING AND ZONING.  The appointed and/or delegated
individual or group responsible for the implementation and enforcement of this
ordinance.
   ADULT DRIVE-IN OR MOVIE THEATER.  An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are shown, and in which a substantial portion of the
total presentation time is devoted to the showing of material characterized by
an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT USES.  The exhibition, sale, distribution or performance of material
that is devoted to material characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADVERTISING STRUCTURE (OFF-PREMISE SIGN).  See SIGN, OFF-PREMISE.
   ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.  A plan commission serving a single local
government jurisdiction established as defined under I.C. 36-7-1-2, as amended.
The Lebanon Plan Commission is the ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION or PLAN COMMISSION
referred to by this ordinance.
   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS SALES, DISTRIBUTION AND STORAGE.  A principal use
engaged in the sale or rental of farm tools and equipment, grain, tack, animal
care products and farm supplies. This excludes the sale of large farm
implements, such as tractor and combines, but does include food sales and farm
machinery repair services that are incidental to the principal use.
   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS TERMINAL.  A commercial facility for the transfer,
pickup, storage or discharge of agricultural goods.
   AGRICULTURE.  The art or science of cultivating the ground and raising and
harvesting crops, also often including feeding, breeding and management of
livestock; tillage, animal or poultry husbandry; farming; and the necessary
accessory uses for packing, treating and storing the produce, all of which are
directly related to the production of food. The operation of any accessory uses
shall be secondary to that of the normal agricultural activities. AGRICULTURE
shall not include feed lots, stock yards or the common feeding of garbage or
offal to swine or other animals. See also FARM (GENERAL).
   AGRICULTURE STRUCTURE.  A structure located on a farm and designed and
constructed to house farm implements, livestock, hay, grain, fruit and/or other
agricultural products, supplies and equipment used by the operators of the
farm. An AGRICULTURE STRUCTURE shall not include dwellings or structures used
for the processing, treating or packaging of agricultural products, or by the
public.
   AIR POLLUTION.  Presence in the outdoor atmosphere of one or more air
contaminants in sufficient quantities and of characteristics and duration that
are injurious to human, plant or animal life, to property or which unreasonably
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property.
   AIRPORT.  Any area of land designed and used for the landing and take-off of
aircraft, including all necessary facilities for the housing and maintenance of
aircraft.
   ALLEY.  A public right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk or
easement, that provides secondary access for the abutting property.
   ALLEY LINE.  A lot line bordering on an alley.
   ALTERATION.  Any change, addition or modification in construction or use of
an existing structure or property. See also ADDITION.
   AMATEUR RADIO TOWER.  A freestanding or building-mounted structure,
including any base, tower or pole, antenna and appurtenances, intended for
airway communication purposes by a person holding a valid amateur radio license
from the Federal Communications Commission.
   AMEND or AMENDMENT.  Any repeal, modification or addition to a regulation,
or any new regulation.
   ANIMAL.  Any live vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, excluding human
beings.
   ANIMAL AND ANIMAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING.  The processing or treatment of
animals and animal material as a raw resource for refinement as food and non-
edible products.
   ANIMAL BOARDING.  The use of any structure and/or land for the lodging,
breeding or care of dogs, cats, pets, fowl, horses or other domestic animals
for profit, excluding animals used for agricultural purposes.
   ANIMAL, DOMESTIC.  Any animal that has been adopted by human beings to live
and breed in a tame condition, and are commonly used as household pets,
protection, companions and for the assistance of disabled persons. DOMESTIC
ANIMALS shall include animals that are cared for and treated in a manner
acceptable for pet dogs, cats and birds. DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall include, but
not be limited to, dogs, cats, parakeets, parrots, finches, spiders, guinea
pigs, hamsters, gerbils, rats, mice, rabbits, aquarium fish, pot belly pigs,
ferrets and snakes if cared for in the manner described above.
   ANIMAL, FARM.  See FARM ANIMALS.
   ANIMAL SHELTER.  A facility used to care for and house lost, stray,
homeless, abandoned or unwanted animals; including those found running at-large
or otherwise subject to impoundment consistent with applicable laws. ANIMAL
SHELTER includes facilities for adoption, medical treatment and cremation.
   ANIMAL STABLES.  The use of any structure with stalls or compartments and/or
land where animals, excluding dogs and cats, are sheltered and fed.
   ANTENNA.  Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs or similar
devices used for the purpose of receiving and/or transmitting signals, images,
sounds or information of any nature by radio, visual or electromagnetic waves,
including, but not limited to, directional or omni-directional antennas, panels
and microwave or satellite dishes external to, or attached to, the exterior of
any building.
   ANTIQUE SHOP.  Any premises used for the sale or trading of articles of
which 80% or more are over 30 years old or have collectible value. ANTIQUE SHOP
does not include a secondhand store.
   APARTMENT.  A dwelling unit in a structure arranged, intended, designed, or
occupied on a rental basis for the housing of a single-family, an individual,
group of individuals or other single housekeeping unit.
   APPAREL SHOP.  Retail stores where clothing is sold or accepted for sale at
retail prices.
   APPLICANT.  The owner, owners or legal representative of real estate who
make application for action affecting the property. See also PETITIONER.
   APPLICATION.  The completed form or forms, together with any other required
materials, exhibits and fees required of an applicant consistent with the
procedures established by this ordinance.
   APPURTENANCE.  A minor element of a larger structure, such as a bay window,
stairs, light post and the like.
   ARBORIST.  An individual trained in arboriculture, forestry, landscape
architecture, horticulture or related fields and experienced in the
conservation and preservation of trees.
   ARCADE (ARCHITECTURAL).  An area contiguous to a street or plaza that is
open and unobstructed to a height of not less than 12 feet and that is
accessible to the public at all times. Any portion of an ARCADE occupied by
building columns, landscaping, statuary, pools or fountains shall be considered
part of the arcade. The term ARCADE shall not include off-street loading areas,
driveways, off-street parking areas or open pedestrian walkways. The floor of
any ARCADE shall be level with the adjoining street or plaza.
   ARCADE (RECREATIONAL).  A building or part of a building containing four or
more video, pinball or similar player-operated amusement devices, in any
combination, for commercial use.
   ARCHERY RANGE.  A facility designed and/or used for target practice with
bows and arrows.
   AREA PLAN COMMISSION.  A plan commission serving a county and one or more
city or town government jurisdictions, established as defined under the I.C.
36-7-1-2, as amended. The County Area Plan Commission is the AREA PLAN
COMMISSION referred to by this ordinance.
   ART OR PHOTO GALLERY.  A room or structure in which original works of art or
limited editions of original art are bought, sold, loaned, appraised or
exhibited to the general public. This does not include libraries or museums.
   ARTERIAL.  See STREET, ARTERIAL.
   ASSEMBLY FACILITY.  A building or portion of a building in which facilities
are provided for group civic, educational, political, professional, religious,
cultural or social functions.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY.  A residential facility providing services that
assist residents with daily activities, such as dressing, grooming, bathing and
the like.
   ATHLETIC FIELD.  A wide stretch of open land used for outdoor games such as
baseball, basketball, football or soccer.
   AUCTION FACILITY.  A building or property used for the storage of goods and
materials that are to be sold on the premises by public auction, and for the
sale of the goods and materials by public action on an occasional basis only.
   AUTOMOBILE FILLING STATION.  Buildings and premises where gasoline and other
petroleum are supplied and dispensed at retail, and where light automobile
maintenance activities may be conducted. Uses permissible at a service station
do not include major mechanical and body work, straightening of frames or body
parts, painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating condition, or
other work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an
extent greater than normally found in service stations. A SERVICE STATION shall
not be construed as a repair garage or a body shop.
   AUTOMOBILE/MOTORCYCLE/MOBILE HOME SALES AREA AND LEASING.  An open area,
other than a street, used for the display, sale or rental of new or used
automobiles, motorcycles or mobile homes to be displayed, sold or rented on the
premises.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS SALES.  The use of any structure and/or property for the
display and sale or new or used parts for motor vehicles. This does not
including any salvage yard or the storage of inoperable vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES AND SERVICE.  See VEHICLE SALES, NEW and VEHICLE SALES,
USED.
   AWNING.  A roof-like cover, often of fabric, metal or glass designed and
intended for protection from the weather or as a decorative embellishment, and
which projects from a wall or roof of a structure over a window, walk or door.
AWNINGS include those that may be retracted or folded against the face of a
supporting building.
   BAKERY (RETAIL).  An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of
baked products for consumption off-site. The products may either be prepared
on- or off-site.
   BAKERY (WHOLESALE).  A place for preparing, cooking, baking and wholesale
selling of products intended for off-site distribution and retail sales.
   BALCONY.  A platform that projects from the wall of a building and is
surrounded by a railing or parapet.
   BANK.  A facility for the custody, loan or exchange of products, typically
money. Also included is the extension of credit and facilitating the
transmission of funds.
   BANQUET HALL.  See ASSEMBLY HALL.
   BAR.  A facility or area used primarily for the serving of alcoholic
beverages, and in which the serving of food is only incidental to the
consumption of alcohol.
   BARBER SHOP.  Any establishment or place of business within which the
practice of cutting hair is engaged in or carried on by one or more employees.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.  The elevation, expressed in feet above mean sea
level, to which flooding can be expected to occur on a frequency of once every
100 years, or which is subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any
given year. See also REGULATORY FLOOD.
   BASEMENT.  The portion of a building with more than half of its interior
height below the average finished grade of the building perimeter. For the
purposes of this ordinance, a BASEMENT shall not be considered a story unless
it has been subdivided into rooms and used for tenant purpose.
   BEACON.  Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same zone lot as the light source;
also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
   BEAUTY SALON.  Any commercial establishment where cosmetology is offered or
practiced on a regular basis for compensation.
   BED AND BREAKFAST.  A private, owner-occupied dwelling unit containing up to
five guest rooms for rent for periods of less than two weeks. Guest rooms are
not intended to be used for cooking or eating, however, meals may or may not be
provided.
   BERM.  A human-made mound of earth of definite height and width used for
landscaping and obscuring purposes.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.  The utilization of the natural environment,
artificial structures, scheduling and/or prohibition to ensure the long-term
operation and maintenance of features that control stormwater filtration,
erosion and/or the discharge of polluting elements.
   BILLIARD ROOM (POOL HALL).  A business establishment containing more than
two pool or billiard tables for the use by patrons where pool or billiard
activities are the principal use.
   BLOCK.  Property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting streets (either crossing or terminating), railroad right-
of-way, lake, river, stream or other physical boundary.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2131.jpg]
 
   BLOCK FACE.  The edge of one side of a street between intersections that
faces the street.
   BOARD.  The Lebanon Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA).
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS (BZA).  A board established consistent with the I.C.
36-7-4-900 series. The Lebanon Board of Zoning Appeals is the BOARD OF ZONING
APPEALS referred to by this ordinance.
   BOARDING HOUSE.  An establishment offering rooms for rent, where meals are
regularly served from a single kitchen (not open to the general public) for
compensation for three or more persons, but not exceeding 12 persons. BOARDING
HOUSES do not include bed and breakfasts, multifamily dwellings, hotels or
motels.
   BOAT STORAGE FACILITY.  A structure or area designed for the storage of
watercraft and marine equipment.
   BODY ART STUDIO.  An establishment or facility in which any of the following
are performed:
      (1)   Producing an indelible mark or figure on the human body by scarring
or inserting a pigment under the skin using needles, scalpels or other related
equipment;
      (2)   Insertion of sub-dermal implants; and/or
      (3)   The piercing of body parts, other than ears, for purposes of
allowing the insertion of jewelry or other items.
   BOOKSTORE.  A retail establishment that, as its primary business, engages in
the sale, rental or other charge-for-use of books, magazines, newspapers,
greeting cards, postcards, videotapes, computer software and/or any other
printed or electronically conveyed media.
   BOND.  See SURETY.
   BOTTLE GAS STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION.  The storage and distribution of bottle
gasses including propane, carbon dioxide, helium and other commercially used
gases.
   BOWLING ALLEY.  An establishment that devotes a majority of its gross floor
area to bowling lanes, equipment and playing areas. A BOWLING ALLEY may include
other incidental uses, such as other recreation activities, a restaurant or a
bar.
   BUFFER.  Any trees, shrubs, walls, fences, berms other related landscaping
features or buffer yard required under this ordinance to be placed either on
private property and privately maintained, or in public rights-of-way for the
purpose of buffering lots from adjacent properties, for aesthetic purposes and
for creating sound, noise, light, odor, chemical or visual privacy barriers.
See also BUFFER YARDS.
   BUFFER YARDS.  An area adjacent to front, side and/or rear property lines,
measured perpendicularly from adjacent property lines and/or right-of-way
lines, intended to screen incompatible uses from each other. BUFFER YARDS are
also used to help maintain existing trees or natural vegetation; to block or
reduce noise, glare or other emissions; and to maintain privacy. BUFFER YARDS
are in addition to (separate from) front, rear or side yard setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2133.jpg]
 
   BUILDING SUPPLY STORE.  A large warehouse-style establishment that offers
retail and wholesale site development, building and hardware supplies,
including various basic hardware lines, such as tools, builder’s hardware,
plumbing and electrical supplies, paint and glass, housewares and household
appliances and garden supplies and cutlery. A lumberyard may be included as an
incidental use to the building supply retail sales.
   BUILD-TO LINE.  A line parallel to the front property line indicating the
distance from the front property line at which principal structures must be
built. A BUILT-TO LINE is neither a minimum or a maximum, but rather a specific
requirement.
   BUILDABLE AREA.  See BUILDING ENVELOPE.
   BUILDING.  A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support or enclosure of persons, property or animals. When separated
by division walls from the ground up and without openings, each portion of the
BUILDING may be deemed as a separate building.
   BUILDING AREA.  The maximum horizontal projected area of the principal and
accessory building, excluding required setbacks, buffers and other non-
buildable areas.
   BUILDING, ATTACHED.  A building that is structurally connected to another
building by a foundation, wall or roof line.
   BUILDING CODE.  The locally adopted Indiana Building Code establishing and
controlling the standards for constructing mechanical equipment, all forms of
permanent structures and related matters within the city. Also referred to in
this ordinance as the CITY BUILDING CODE.
   BUILDING, DETACHED.  A building having no structural connection with another
building.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE.  The three-dimensional portion of a lot or site,
exclusive of all required setbacks, buffer yards, maximum height standards,
landscaping or open space, within which a structure may be built.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2135.jpg]
 
   BUILDING FINISHES STORE.  A store devoted to the sale of wall treatments,
window treatments, floor coverings, cabinets and other building finishes.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF.  The line of the face of the building nearest the
front lot line.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.  See HEIGHT.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.  A building in which the main or principal use, of the
lot on which the building is situated, is conducted. Where a substantial part
of an accessory building is attached to the PRINCIPAL BUILDING in a substantial
manner, as by a roof, the accessory building shall be counted as a part of the
PRINCIPAL BUILDING. Standards recognized by the State Department of Fire and
Building Services shall be used to determine whether a given structure
constitutes one or more buildings in cases where ambiguities exist.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE.  See SETBACK.
   BURNING, FREE.  A rate of combustion described by a material which burns
actively and easily supports combustion.
   BURNING, INTENSE.  A rate of combustion described by a material that burns
with a high degree of activity and is consumed rapidly.
   BURNING, MODERATE.  A rate of combustion described by a material which
supports combustion and is consumed slowly as it burns.
   BURNING, SLOW.  Materials which do not in themselves constitute an active
fuel for the spread of combustion. A material which will not ignite, nor
actively support combustion during an exposure for five minutes to a
temperature of 1,200°F.
   BUSINESS.  A commercial endeavor to engage in the purchase, sale, lease,
barter or exchange of goods, wares, merchandise and/or the provision of
services. Also includes the maintenance or operation of offices or the
maintenance or operation of recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  A geographic area wherein the majority of uses are
related to commerce and the operation of businesses.
   BUSINESS/FINANCIAL SERVICES OFFICE.  Any office where the primary occupation
is concerned with federal or state-regulated businesses such as banking,
savings and loans, loan companies and investment companies.
   BZA.  See BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   CAMPGROUND.  Any site, lot, field or tract of land designed with facilities
for short-term and/or seasonal occupancy by campers through the use of
recreational vehicles, travel trailers, tents, cabins or other temporary
accommodations, but not including mobile homes.
   CAMPUS.  An area of land constituting and making up the grounds of an
institution, such as a college or university, a business complex or a
manufacturing park.
   CAR WASH.  The use of a property for the washing, cleaning, polishing and/or
waxing of passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles or other light duty
equipment. The method of washing, cleaning, polishing and/or waxing is done
either through automated machinery or through self-service open bays.
   CAR WASH, SELF-SERVICE.  The use of a property for the washing, cleaning,
polishing and/or waxing of passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles or other
light duty equipment. The method of washing, cleaning, polishing and/or waxing
is done through self-service open bays.
   CARPORT.  A permanent structure, which includes a roof and roof-supports but
not enclosed by walls, which is used as an accessory to a dwelling unit for the
purpose of providing shelter to one or more vehicles.
   CEMETERY.  Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when
operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of the cemetery.
   CHILD CARE INSTITUTION.  As defined by I.C. 12-72-29 and for the purposes of
this ordinance:
      (1)   A residential facility that provides child care on a 24-hour basis
for more than ten children;
      (2)   A residential facility with a capacity of not more than ten
children that does not meet the residential structure requirements of a group
home; or
      (3)   Operates under a license issued under I.C. 12-17.4; provides for
delivery of mental health services that are appropriate to the needs of the
individual; and
      (4)   Complies with the rules adopted under I.C. 4-22-2 by the State
Division of Family and Children.
   CHILD DAY CARE CENTER.  As defined by I.C. 127-2-28.4 and for the purposes
of this zoning ordinance, a nonresidential building where at least one child
receives child care from a provider:
      (1)   While unattended by a parent, legal guardian or custodian;
      (2)   For regular compensation; and
      (3)   For more than four hours but less than 24 hours in each of ten
consecutive days per year, excluding intervening Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays.
   CHILD DAY CARE HOME.
      (1)   As defined by I.C. 127-2-28.6 and for the purposes of the zoning
ordinance, an establishment providing non-overnight care, supervision and
protection of children in private residences which is incidental to the
principal residential use.
      (2)   A CHILD DAY CARE HOME includes at least six and no more than 16
children (not including the children for whom the provider is a parent,
stepparent, guardian, custodian or other relative); or those which are at least
age seven who, at any time, receive child care from a provider:
         (a)   While unattended by a parent, legal guardian or custodian;
         (b)   For regular compensation; and
         (c)   For more than four hours but less than 24 hours in each of ten
consecutive days per year, excluding intervening Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays.
      (3)   The term includes CLASS I CHILD CARE HOMES and CLASS II CHILD CARE
HOMES as defined in I.C. 12-7-2-33.7 and I.C. 12-7-2-33.8
   CHURCH.  The use of a building and/or property by a non-profit group for the
purpose of religious worship together with all incidental uses commonly
associated with a facility, such as a day care center or school. CHURCH
includes synagogue, temple, mosque or any other like facility used for worship
and religious activities.
   CIRCUS or CARNIVAL.  A temporary outdoor amusement center, bazaar or fair,
either involving use of special purpose equipment or conducted by professional
operators, or both, and where activities include things such as rides,
exhibitions, food service, sales or small-scale games.
   CITY.  The City of Lebanon, Indiana.
   CLINIC.  See MEDICAL OR HEALTH CLINIC.
   CLUB.  Building and facilities owned or operated by a person or organization
for a social, educational or recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit
or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.  A development in which a number of dwelling units, or
other structures, are placed in closer proximity than usual, or are attached,
for the purpose of providing open space.
   CLUSTER SUBDIVISION.  See CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   COFFEE SHOP.  An informal restaurant that primarily serves non-alcoholic
beverages, including coffee and tea, as well as desserts and limited food
items.
   COLLEGE.  See UNIVERSITY.
   COLLECTOR.  See STREET, COLLECTOR.
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.  See BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   COMMISSION.  The Lebanon Plan Commission.
   COMMON AREA.  Land within a development which is not individually owned or
dedicated to the public, but which is designed and intended for the use,
enjoyment and maintenance of the property owners within that development or
other specific area. The COMMON AREA may include complimentary structures and/
or other improvements.
   COMMON COUNCIL.  The Common Council of the City of Lebanon, Indiana.
   COMMON OWNERSHIP.  Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership or unincorporated association, including ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities or unincorporated associations with
at least one common stockholder, partner or associate.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE EXCHANGE.  A telecommunications facility that houses
one or more computer systems and related equipment dedicated to building,
maintaining and/or processing data. The facility would likely include a
telephone service exchange, a data center and a server farm.
   COMMUNITY CENTER.  A meeting place where people living in the same community
and their guests may carry on cultural, recreational or social activities.
   COMPATIBLE.  Having harmony and consistency in design, function and/or
appearance.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY.  An offsite facility where the organic component of
municipal solid waste is decomposed under controlled conditions. Organic
components could include leaves, yard trimmings, wood debris, manure or other
elements.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  The official policy document which establishes
development goals and objectives to guide growth within and around the city in
a coordinated manner, prepared by the City Plan Commission and adopted in
accordance with the State Planning Statutes.
   CONCEPT PLAN.  An illustration of the layout of a proposed planned unit
development, required prior to a PUD rezoning consideration, and prior to the
filing of a preliminary plan for a PUD or a primary plat for a subdivision.
   CONCRETE/ASPHALT PRODUCTION FACILITY.  A facility where raw materials are
processed into concrete or asphalt for sale and/or immediate use. Facilities
typically include all necessary equipment for both transport and application of
the finished product.
   CONDITION OF APPROVAL.  Stipulations or provisions set forth as a
prerequisite for approval of an application.
   CONDITIONAL USE.  Uses that, because of potential incompatibility and
negative impact on the immediate neighborhood, require a greater degree of
scrutiny and review of site characteristics and impacts to determine their
suitability in a given location. CONDITIONAL USES are permitted only following
approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   CONDOMINIUM.  Real estate lawfully subject to I.C. 32-25: CONDOMINIUMS by
the recording of condominium instruments, in which undivided interests in the
common areas and facilities are vested in the condominium unit owners.
   CONFERENCE CENTER.  A facility used for service organizations, business and
professional conferences and seminars limited to accommodations for conference
attendees. The accommodations can include sleeping, eating and recreation. A
CONFERENCE CENTER is not designed to be utilized only by the general public for
overnight purposes.
   CONFINED FEEDING.  The raising of animals for food, fur or recreation in
lots, pens, ponds, sheds or buildings, where they are confined, fed and
maintained for at least 45 days during any year, and where there is no ground
cover or vegetation present over at least half of the animals’ confinement
area. Livestock markets and sale barns are excluded from this term. See also
FARM (CONFINED FEEDING).
   CONSERVATION DISTRICT.  The Boone County Soil and Water Conservation
District.
   CONSTRUCTION, ACTUAL.  Work done which is beyond the preparation stage and
into that stage where the changes or additions are made permanent.
   CONSTRUCTION SERVICES.  Any of the activities commonly referred to as
construction and shall include without limiting thereby, plumbing, heating,
roofing, interior remodeling, excavating.
   CONSTRUCTION TRAILER.  A manufactured mobile unit without cooking or
bathroom facilities, not designed for dwelling purposes, and used as a
temporary office during construction.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS.  Subdivision drawings that detail the specific location
and design of utilities, streets and other improvements.
   CONTIGUOUS.  See ABUTTING.
   CONTRACTOR’S WAREHOUSE/STORAGE YARD.  An unenclosed portion of a lot or
parcel upon which a construction contractor maintains a facility for the
storage of construction equipment and other materials customarily used in the
trade carried on by the contractor.
   CONVENIENCE STORE.  A small retail establishment that offers for sale a
limited line of groceries, convenience goods, tobacco products, periodicals and
other household products. A CONVENIENCE STORE may also sell gasoline.
   COUNTRY CLUB.  An establishment operated for social or recreational purposes
that is open only to members and not to the general public.
   COUNTY.  Boone County, Indiana.
   COVENANTS.  Private and legal restrictions of various kinds on the usage of
lots, typically within a subdivision and applied by the subdivider, that are
recorded with the plat and deed. COVENANTS are enforceable in civil court by
interested or affected parties.
   CRAFT/FABRIC STORE.  Any business that produces on the premises articles for
sale of artistic quality or handmade workmanship or businesses that primarily
sell items and materials used in the creation of crafts and other handiwork.
   CREMATORY.  An establishment containing a furnace (called a retort) used for
the cremation of human remains. A CREMATORY may be owned by or deal directly
only with funeral homes, or may have open access to the public. Also called a
CREMATORIUM.
   CROP PROCESSING AND STORAGE.  The processing of harvested crops, as well as
the storage of both the raw and processed crops. Processing includes any or all
of the following or similar activities as they relate to crop produce:
cleaning, shelling, drying, cooking and packaging.
   CROP PRODUCTION.  The production and management of agricultural crops,
including planting, cultivation and harvesting.
   CROSSWALK.  A strip of land dedicated to public use, which is reserved
across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
   CUL-DE-SAC.  See STREET, CUL-DE-SAC.
   CURB.  A concrete boundary marking the edge of a street or other paved area
and providing for a change in grade between the street surface and the adjacent
unpaved portions of the street right-of-way.
   CURB CUT.  The providing of vehicular ingress and/or egress between property
and an abutting public street.
   CURB RADIUS.  The curved edge of a street, driveway or other paved area at
an intersection with another street, driveway or other paved area.
   CUT.  An excavation. The difference between a point on the original ground
and a designated point of lower elevation on the final grade. Also, the
material removed in excavation.
   DANCE/MARTIAL ARTS/GYMNASTICS STUDIO.  An establishment where patrons learn
and/or practice dance, martial arts or gymnastics.
   DATA PROCESSING/CALL CENTER.  Facilities where electronic data is processed
by employees, including data entry storage, conversion or analysis;
subscription and credit card transaction processing; telephone sales and order
collection; mail order and catalogue sales; and mailing list processing.
   DAY CARE CENTER.  See CHILD DAY CARE CENTER.
   DAY CARE HOME.  See CHILD DAY CARE HOME.
   DECK.  A platform, either freestanding or attached to building that is
supported by pillars or posts.
   DECIBEL.  A unit of measurement of the intensity of loudness of sound. Sound
level meters are used to measure the intensities and are calibrated in
DECIBELS.
   DECIDUOUS TREE.  See TREE, DECIDUOUS.
   DEDICATION.  The intentional setting apart of land or interests in land for
use by the city.
   DEFECTIVE LANDSCAPING.  See LANDSCAPING, DEFECTIVE.
   DELICATESSEN (DELI).  An establishment where food is sold for consumption
either on- or off- premises, excluding groceries and supermarkets.
   DENSITY.  The number of dwelling units per acre.
   DENSITY, GROSS.  The numerical value obtained by dividing the total number
of dwelling units in a development or area by the gross size of the area (in
acres), including all nonresidential land uses, rights-of-way, streets and
other features included in the area.
   DENSITY, NET.  The numerical value obtained by dividing the total number of
dwelling units in a development or area of the actual tract of land (in acres)
upon which the dwelling units are located, or proposed to be located, including
common open space and excluding nonresidential uses, rights-of-way and streets.
   DEPARTMENT STORE.  A business conducted under a single name that directly
exhibits and sells a variety of unrelated merchandise and services to customers
(includes discount stores).
   DESIGN.  A planned arrangement of forms, shapes, massing, colors and
materials intended to serve a useful purpose or be decorative or artistic. The
essence of a DESIGN resides not in the elements individually, nor in their
method of arrangement, but in the total ensemble that awakens some sensation in
the observer’s mind.
   DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT ENTITY.  The Lebanon Board of Zoning Appeals.
   DETACHED STRUCTURE.  A building that has no structural connection with the
principal structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2137.jpg]
 
   DETENTION BASIN.  An area that is designed to temporarily hold specific
quantities of stormwater and to gradually release the stormwater into an
identified body of water or waterway at a sufficiently slow rate to avert
flooding.
   DEVELOPER.  An individual, partnership, corporation (or agent thereof), or
other entity that undertakes the responsibility for land development,
particularly the designing of a subdivision plat or site development plan
showing the layout of the land and the public improvements involved therein. In
as much as the subdivision plat is merely a necessary means to the end of
assuring a satisfactory development, the term DEVELOPER is intended to include
the term subdivider, even though the personnel involved in successive stages of
the project may differ. See also SUBDIVIDER.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
      (5)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (7)   Storage of materials; or
      (8)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN.  Dimensioned plans showing the entire on-site distribution
of all elements for a proposed construction project, which would normally
include architectural, engineering, landscape architectural, lighting and
signage plans.
   DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.  Regulations provided by this ordinance that provide
specific conditions for the development and use of buildings/structures and
property.
   DISTRIBUTION FACILITY.  A use where goods are received and/or stored for
delivery to the final consumer at remote locations.
   DISTRICT.  An area with common social, physical, economic or land use
characteristics.
   DOMESTIC PETS.  See ANIMAL, DOMESTIC.
   DORMITORY.  A structure specifically designed to provide sleeping and living
quarters for long-term stay by students of a college, university or other
institution. A common kitchen and common gathering rooms may also be provided.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT.  See LOT, THROUGH.
   DRAINAGE.  The outflow of water or other fluids from a site through either
natural or artificial means.
   DRAINAGE, SUBSURFACE.  A system of pipes, tile, conduit or tubing installed
beneath the ground surface and used to collect groundwater from individual
parcels, lots or building footings.
   DRAINAGE, SURFACE.  A system by which stormwater runoff is conducted to an
outlet. This includes the proper grading of parking lots, streets, driveways,
yards and the like, so that stormwater runoff is removed without ponding and
flows to a drainage swale, open ditch or a storm sewer.
   DRAINAGE SWALE.  A natural or constructed waterway, usually broad and
shallow, covered with erosion-resistant grasses, and used to conduct surface
water from a field, diversion or other site feature.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM.  All facilities, channels and areas which serve to convey,
filter, store and/or receive stormwater, either on a temporary or permanent
basis.
   DRESSMAKING.  A retail store where custom clothing is made and sold, or
where alterations of clothing are done.
   DRIP LINE.  An imaginary vertical line that extends from the outermost
branches of a tree’s canopy to the ground.
   DRIVE, PRIVATE.  See STREET, PRIVATE.
   DRIVE-THROUGH/DRIVE-IN/DRIVE-UP FACILITY.  A small scale establishment
developed so that its retail or service character is dependant on providing a
driveway approach or parking spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons
while in the motor vehicle, rather than within a building or structure. See
also RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN.
   DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE.  An opening or openings in the wall of a building or
structure designed and intended to be used to provide for sales and/or service
to patrons, who remain in their vehicles, products that are used or consumed
off-site.
   DRIVEWAY.  A private roadway providing access for vehicles to a parking
space, garage, dwelling or other structure.
   DRIVEWAY, COMMON.  An access shared by adjacent property owners.
   DRIVING RANGE.  An area equipped with distance markers, clubs, balls and
tees for practicing golf drives and putting, which may or may not include a
snack-bar and pro-shop, but does exclude golf courses and miniature golf
courses.
   DRY CLEANERS.  An establishment that cleans fabrics, textiles, wearing
apparel or articles of any sort by immersion and agitation in volatile solvents
and all related processes. RETAIL CLEANERS serve individuals on a walk-in
basis, generally with patrons dropping off and picking up their clothing.
   DUMPSTER.  A receptacle container that has a hooking mechanism that allows
it to be raised and dumped into a sanitation truck, including dumpsters for
trash, compacted materials and recycling.
   DUPLEX.  See DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.
   DWELLING.  A building or portion thereof, used primarily as a place of abode
for one or more human beings, but not including hotels or motels, lodging or
boarding houses.
   DWELLING, ACCESSORY.  A second dwelling unit either in or added to an
existing single-family detached dwelling, or in a separate accessory structure
on the same lot as the main dwelling, for use as a complete, independent living
facility with provision in the accessory apartment for cooking, eating,
sanitation and sleeping. Accessory apartments shall be clearly subordinate to
the principal use in both size and location.
   DWELLING, FARM.  A single-family dwelling that is located on, and used in
connection with farm operations.
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME.  Single-family detached dwelling units that are
factory built to the National Manufactured Construction and Safety Standards
Act in a transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode,
is eight-body feet or more in width or 40-body feet or more in length, or, when
erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems contained therein. A
MANUFACTURED HOME is a single-family dwelling for the purposed of this
ordinance.
   DWELLING, MODULAR HOME.  A factory-fabricated transportable building
(manufactured home) designed to be used alone or to be incorporated with
similar units at a building site and designed and constructed with a perimeter
frame to become a permanent structure on a site, with all outside walls
supported by a permanent foundation. A MODULAR HOME is a single-family dwelling
for the purposes of this ordinance.
   DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY.  A structure designed for and occupied by three or
more families or other single units of housekeeping, with each family or
housekeeping unit occupying only one unit. The number of families and
housekeeping units in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units
provided.
   DWELLING, SECONDARY.  A structure designed for and occupied by one family or
single unit of housekeeping, and secondary to a nonresidential principal use
for the property. SECONDARY DWELLINGS are generally found in mixed-use
settings, where residential structures may exist on the floors of a building
above a first-floor commercial use. There may be more than one SECONDARY
DWELLING in a structure, but the number of families and housekeeping units in
residence shall not exceed the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.  A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
and occupied by one family or other single unit of housekeeping and therefore
including no more than one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING SITE.  A site within a manufactured home park and/or mobile home
park with required improvements and utilities that is leased for the long term
placement of manufactured homes and/or mobile homes.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A detached residential building containing two
dwelling units designed for occupancy by not more than two families or other
single units of housekeeping.
   DWELLING UNIT.  Any structure or portion thereof designed for or used for
residential purposes as a self-sufficient, individual unit by one family or
other similar social association of persons as a single housekeeping unit, and
having permanently installed sleeping, cooking and sanitary facilities.
   EASEMENT.  A grant by a property owner to specific persons, the general
public, corporations, utilities or others, for the purpose of providing
services or access to the property.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION.  See SCHOOL.
   EGRESS.  An exit.
   E.I.F.S.  Acronym for Exterior Insulation Finishing System, a construction
siding material.
   ELECTRIC APPLIANCE SHOP.  A retail store that sells electric appliances used
for domestic functions including, but not limited to, washers, dryers,
refrigerators, freezers, ovens/ranges, dishwashers, vacuum cleaners,
televisions, toasters, hairdryers, mixers, fans, radios and food processors.
   ELECTRONICS PRODUCTS PROCESSING. The manufacture or assembly of electrical
appliances, electronic instruments and cellular technologies and other various
electronic devices.
   ELEVATION.  A flat scale drawing of the front, rear or side of a building.
   EMPLOYMENT SERVICE.  An establishment that seeks and identifies available
jobs for patrons seeking employment.
   EQUINE SERVICES.  Operations involved in the shelter and care of horses, as
well as breeding, training and for giving lessons, including stables, stud
farms and other related uses.
   EQUIPMENT, MECHANICAL.  See MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   EROSION.  The removal of natural surface materials (soil and rock fragments)
by flowing surface or subsurface water or by wind.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES.  The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground
or overhead gas, electrical, telephone, sewer or water transmission or
distribution systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduit cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants,
street signs and other similar equipment and accessories in connection
therewith, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate services by
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public
health, safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   EVERGREEN TREE.  See TREE, EVERGREEN.
   EXCAVATION.  Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other similar
material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated
or bulldozed. Shall also include the conditions resulting therefrom.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of this ordinance.
   EXPANSION OF AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   EXPLOSIVE MANUFACTURING AND STORAGE.  The manufacture and storage of any
chemical compound, mixture or device of which the primary and common purpose is
to function by explosion with substantially simultaneous release of gas and
heat, the resulting pressure being capable of producing destructive effects.
   EXTERNAL ILLUMINATION.  See ILLUMINATION, EXTERNAL.
   FABRICATION FACILITY.  An establishment where employees and machinery are
used to assemble product components created off-site.
   FACADE.  The portion of any exterior elevation on a building, extending from
grade level to the top of the parapet, wall or eaves for the entire width of
the building.
   FAIRGROUNDS.  An area of land used for agricultural-related office
buildings, animal shows and judging, carnivals, circuses, community meeting and
recreational facilities, concerts, food booths and stands, games, rides,
rodeos, sales and auctions, storage and theaters.
   FAMILY.  A group of one or more persons occupying a building and living as a
single housekeeping unit and therefore using common facilities for cooking,
sanitation and gathering. No group living as a single housekeeping unit but not
related by blood, marriage, adoption or foster care shall consist of more than
three persons, as distinguished from a group occupying a lodging house, hotel
or nursing home. A FAMILY does not include any society, club, fraternity,
sorority, group living in a boarding house, hotel, motel, bed and breakfast
facility, lodging house, rooming house, assisted living facility, nursing home
or club.
   FARM ANIMALS.  Animals commonly used for transportation, food, skins and
other by-products and has the potential of causing a nuisance outside of rural
areas or if not properly maintained. FARM ANIMALS include, but are not limited
to, horses, cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, mules, donkeys, miniature horses,
miniature donkeys, camels, emu, ostrich, llamas, alpacas, rabbits, mink, fox,
buffalo, chickens, turkeys, quail, pheasants and other animals or fowl of
similar characteristics.
   FARM (CONFINED FEEDING).
      (1)   Any livestock operation that meets one or more of the following
characteristics:
         (a)   Any confined feeding of at least 300 cattle, or 600 swine or
sheep or 30,000 fowl, such as chickens, ducks and other poultry;
         (b)   Any animal feeding operation utilizing a waste lagoon or holding
pits;
         (c)   Any animal feeding operation where the operator elects to come
under the provisions of I.C. 13-18-10; or
         (d)   Any animal feeding operation that is causing a violation of I.C.
13-18-10 as determined by the Stream Pollution Control Board.
      (2)   See also CONFINED FEEDING.
   FARM CO-OP. FACILITY.  A cooperative business owned by farmers to produce
and/or store and market agricultural products.
   FARM (DWELLING).  See DWELLING, FARM.
   FARM EQUIPMENT SALES AND SERVICE.  A use primarily engaged in the sale/
rental and/or service of farm tools and implements and/or the sale of feeds,
grain, tack, animal care products and farm supplies. Does not include the sale
or distribution of agricultural chemicals, including fertilizer.
   FARM (GENERAL).  An property or area exceeding 20 acres in size that is
devoted to agricultural operations such as forestry; the growing of crops;
pasturage; the production of livestock and poultry; the growing of trees,
shrubs and plants; and other recognized agricultural pursuits. A FARM shall
include all related structures and the storage of equipment and materials used
on-site for the farm operation. A FARM shall not include the commercial raising
of animals, confined feeding or the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to
swine or other animals. See also AGRICULTURE.
   FARMER’S MARKET.  The seasonal selling at retail of home-grown vegetables or
produce, occurring in a pre-designated area, where the vendors are the same
individuals who have raised the products for sale.
   FAST FOOD RESTAURANT.  See RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD.
   FBFM (FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP).  An official map delineating the
floodway, floodway fringe, 100-year floodplain and 500-year floodplain which is
prepared in conjunction with a flood insurance study.
   FEMA.  Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FENCE.  Any structure, solid or otherwise, which is a barrier and is used as
a boundary or means of protection, confinement or concealment.
   FENCE, BARBED-WIRE/RAZOR-WIRE.  One or more strands of wire or other
material having intermittent sharp points of wire or metal that may puncture,
cut, tear or snag persons, clothing or animals.
   FENCE, STOCKADE (100% OPAQUE).  A fence constructed of vertical wood strips,
with no intervening spaces, providing a complete visual barrier.
   FERTILIZER SALES, DISTRIBUTION AND STORAGE.  An establishment that stores,
distributes and sells fertilizers primarily for agricultural crop production
use.
   FHBM.  Flood Hazard Boundary Map.
   FILL.  Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
placed, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved to a new location above
the natural surface of the ground or on top of the stripped surface. Shall also
include the conditions resulting therefrom. Also the difference in elevation
between a point on the original ground and a designated point of higher
elevation on the final grade, or the material used to make a FILL.
   FILLING STATION.  See AUTOMOBILE FILLING STATION.
   FINANCIAL GUARANTEE.  Any guarantee which may be accepted in lieu of a
requirement that certain improvements be made before the Commission approves
the secondary plat, including but not limited to, performance bonds, escrow
agreements, letters of credit, deposit agreements and other similar collateral
or surety arrangements approved as valid and enforceable by the Commission.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.  Any establishment wherein the principal use is
concerned with federal or state-regulated business as banking, savings and
loans, loan companies and investment companies.
   FINISHED FLOOR AREA.  See FLOOR AREA, FINISHED.
   FIRE STATION.  See POLICE, FIRE OR RESCUE STATION.
   FIREWORKS SALES.  The primary business is the retail sale of devices defined
as fireworks by the state.
   FIRM (FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP).  The official map on which FEMA has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and risk premium zones.
   FITNESS CENTER.  A place or building where passive or active exercises and
related activities are performed for the purpose of physical fitness, improved
circulation or flexibility and/or weight control.
   FLAG.  Any fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns
or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision or other
entity.
   FLAG LOT.  See LOT, FLAG.
   FLASH POINT.  The lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid under
prescribed conditions will give off a flammable vapor which will burn
momentarily using the closed cup method.
   FLAT ROOF.  The silhouette formed by a roof line. While the name infers a
roof with no pitch, the actual roof structure is required to have a slope for
drainage purposes. The roof line can be stepped or flat in appearance by using
architectural elements such as cornices, mansards and parapets.
   FLEA MARKET.  An occasional or periodic market held in an open area or
structure where goods are offered for sale to the general public by individual
sellers from open or semi-open facilities or temporary structures. FLEA MARKET
shall not include informal garage or yard sales.
   FLOOD.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  Any area located within the floodplain, including the
flood fringe and floodway.
   FLOODLIGHT.  Reflector type light fixture that produces unshielded and
undirected illumination.
   FLOODPLAIN.  The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a
river, stream, lake or wetland which has been or may be covered by the
regulatory flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes the channel, floodway and floodway
fringe. FLOODPLAIN BOUNDARIES are to be determined by using the floodway flood
boundary maps of the Federal Insurance Administration/Federal Emergency
Management Administration (FEMA).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2139.jpg]
 
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulation flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE.  Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway. The FLOODWAY FRINGE is not necessary for carrying and discharging
peak flood flow, but is subject to flooding.
   FLOOR AREA.  The sum of all horizontal surface areas of all floors of all
roofed portions of a building enclosed by and within the surrounding exterior
walls or roofs, or to the centerline(s) of party walls separating the buildings
or portions thereof. FLOOR AREA of a building shall exclude exterior open
balconies and open porches.
   FLOOR AREA, FINISHED.  The portion of floor area constructed, completed and
usable for living purposes with normal living facilities which includes
sleeping, dining, cooking, working, entertainment, common space living rooms,
areas for personal hygiene, or combination thereof. FLOOR AREA or portion
thereof used only for storage purposes and not equipped for the facilities
mentioned above shall not be considered FINISHED FLOOR AREA. The FINISHED FLOOR
AREA of a principal structure does not include a garage, carport, deck,
unfinished storage, patio or open porch.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS.  The total horizontal areas of the one or several floors
of a building or portion thereof devoted to a particular use, including
accessory storage areas located within selling or working space such as
counters, racks or closets and any basement floor area devoted to retailing
activities, to the production or processing of goods or to offices; provided,
however, GROSS FLOOR AREA shall not include that area devoted entirely and
permanently to storage purposes, parking and loading facilities or space used
for restrooms, utilities, stairwells or elevator shafts.
   FLOOR AREA, GROUND.  The area of a building in square feet, as measured in a
horizontal plane at the ground level within its largest outside dimensions,
exclusive of open porches, breeze-ways, terraces, garages and exterior
stairways.
   FLOOR AREA, NET.  The total area, computed on a horizontal plane, used for a
particular business category; exclusive of entrances, hallways, stairs and
other accessory areas used for ingress or egress.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR).  The combined floor area of all stories of all
buildings within a lot, divided by the land area.
   FLORICULTURE.  The cultivation of flowers or flowering plants, especially
for ornamental purposes.
   FLOWER SHOP.  An indoor or outdoor facility that primarily sells flowers,
bulbs and seeds for planting by patrons. FLOWER SHOPS can include small
greenhouse operations and incidental sales of small gardening equipment and
accessories.
   FOOD AND BEVERAGE PRODUCTION.  The large scale processing of raw ingredients
and materials to create finished or unfinished foods and beverages.
   FOUNDATION.  The supporting member of a wall or structure. See also
PERMANENT FOUNDATION.
   FPG (FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE).  The elevation of the regulatory flood plus
two feet at any given location in the special flood hazard area (SFHA).
   FRATERNITY, EDUCATIONAL.  A club or social activity officially associated
with and recognized and supervised by an institution for higher education whose
membership is limited exclusively to students of the institution.
   FRATERNITY, SOCIAL.  A private club of individuals organized around a civic,
social or intellectual goal or pursuit. See also PRIVATE CLUB.
   FREE BURNING.  See BURNING, FREE.
   FRONT LINE.  With respect to a building, the foundation line that is nearest
the front lot line.
   FRONT LOT LINE.  See LOT LINE, FRONT.
   FRONT SETBACK.  See SETBACK, FRONT.
   FRONTAGE, LOT.  See LOT FRONTAGE.
   FRONTAGE ROAD.  A road which parallels a major arterial or collector street,
providing access from abutting property and separated from the thoroughfare by
a common dividing strip.
   FRONTAGE, STREET.  All the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the
street or if the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on one
side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   FUNERAL HOME.  A facility used for the preparation of the deceased for
display and burial and the conducting of rituals and religious programs
associated with burial.
   GARAGE.  An attached or detached structure whose principal use is to house
motor vehicles or personal property for the accommodation of related dwelling
units or related business establishments. (Not a repair facility)
   GARAGE/YARD SALE.  The sale or offering for sale to the general public six
or more items of personal property on any portion of a lot in a residential
zoning district, either within or outside or a structure.
   GARBAGE TRANSFER STATION.  A facility that compacts trash from curbside
collection trucks. The compacted trash can then be reloaded onto larger trucks
for long-distance transfer to landfill facilities.
   GARDEN SHOP.  A retail establishment that primarily sells garden implements,
plants, landscaping materials and related accessories.
   GAS STATION.  See AUTOMOBILE FILLING STATION.
   GENERAL MATERIAL PRODUCTS. The manufacture, compounding, assembling, or
treatment of articles or merchandise from the following previous prepared
materials: canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, felt, fiber, glass, horn, leather,
paper, plastics, precious or semi-precious metals or stones, sheet metal
(excluding large stamping such as automobile fenders or bodies), shell
textiles, wax, wire, wood (excluding saw and planing mills).
   GIFT SHOP.  An establishment that primarily sells keepsakes, trinkets,
jewelry, cards, stationary and other small gift-related items.
   GLARE.  The reflection of harsh, bright light producing an effect that
causes annoyance, discomfort or loss of visual performance and visibility.
   GOLF COURSE.  A tract of land laid out with at least nine holes improved
with tees, greens, fairways and hazards for playing a game of golf, including
any associated clubhouse or shelters and excluding miniature golf courses and
other similar commercial enterprises.
   GOLF COURSE, MINIATURE.  A theme-oriented recreational facility composed of
a series of putting greens where patrons pay a fee to move in consecutive order
from one green to the next.
   GOVERNMENT FACILITY.  A building, group of buildings and/or piece of
property operated or occupied by a governmental agency to provide a
governmental service to the public. GOVERNMENT FACILITIES also include the
storage and service of government vehicles, equipment and supplies.
   GOVERNMENT OFFICE.  An office occupied by a governmental agency that
provides a governmental service to the public.
   GRADE.  The surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of a
building.
   GRADE, ADJACENT.  The average of grade immediately adjacent to the structure
in question.
   GRADE, EXISTING.  The vertical elevation of the ground prior to any
excavation, filling or other construction activity.
   GRADE, FINISHED.  The final elevation of the ground surface after human-made
alterations have been completed.
   GRADING.  Any stripping, cutting, filling, stockpiling or any combination
thereof; also the land in its cut or filled condition.
   GRADING PLAN.  The drawing and supporting documents that describe the
process and result of the excavating, filling or leveling of a property by
mechanical or other artificial methods.
   GRANDFATHERED.  A description of the a status of certain properties, uses,
activities and conditions that were legally existing prior to the effective
date of this ordinance.
   GRANNY FLAT.  See DWELLING, ACCESSORY.
   GRAZING AND PASTURE LAND.  A fenced area used for the feeding and upkeep of
livestock.
   GREENHOUSE.  A building or structure constructed primarily of translucent
materials which is devoted to the protection or cultivation of flowers and
other tender plants.
   GREENHOUSE, COMMERCIAL.  A building used for the growing of plants, all or
some of which are sold at retail or wholesale either on or off-site.
   GROCERY STORE.  Small-scale retailers of food and grocery supplies.
   GROUND COVER.  Landscaping elements that include living plant material.
   GROUND COVER, NON-LIVING.  Landscaping elements including mulch and
landscaping stones such as colored pebbles and gravel.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA.  See FLOOR AREA, GROUND.
   GROUP HOME.  A residential facility, licensed by the Developmental
Disabilities Residential Facilities Council, which provides residential
services for not more than eight developmentally disabled or mentally ill
persons, none of whom has a history of violent or anti-social behavior. GROUP
HOMES are permitted the staff as are necessary to adequately manage the home,
but not to exceed two staff members residing in the home at any one time.
   HARD SURFACE.  See PAVED SURFACE.
   HARDSHIP.  A difficulty with regard to one’s ability to improve land
stemming from the application of the requirements of this ordinance, which may
or may not be subject to relief by means of variance. In and of themselves,
self-imposed situations and claims based on a perceived reduction of, or
restriction on, economic gain shall not be considered HARDSHIPS. Nor shall the
purchase of land with actual or constructive knowledge that, for reasons other
than physical characteristics of the property, the development standards herein
will inhibit the desired improvement, be considered a HARDSHIP. Nor shall any
improvement initiated in violation of the standards of this ordinance be
considered a HARDSHIP.
   HARDWARE STORE.  A small or medium-scale facility primarily engaged in the
retail sale of various basic hardware lines, such as tools, builder’s hardware,
plumbing and electrical supplies, paint and glass, housewares and household
appliances and garden supplies and cutlery. A lumberyard may be included as an
incidental use to the hardware retail sales.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.  Any substances or materials that by reason of their
toxic, caustic, corrosive, abrasive or otherwise injurious properties, may be
detrimental to the health of any person handling or otherwise coming into
contact with that material or substance.
   HEALTH SPA.  A place or building where active exercise and related
activities are performed utilizing weight control or muscle building equipment
or apparatus for the purpose of physical fitness. Also a place or building that
provides massage, exercise and related activities with or without the equipment
or apparatus.
   HEDGE.  A row of closely planted shrubs, bushes or any other kind of plant
used as a compact, dense, living barrier that protects, shields, separates or
demarcates an area.
   HEIGHT.  In all instances, the HEIGHT of a structure shall be measured from
adjacent grade level to the highest point of the structure, excluding the
necessary appurtenances such as chimneys, church spires, steeples, clock or
bell towers, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, penthouses,
stacks, tanks, water towers, transmission towers or essential mechanical
equipment not prohibited by other laws or further provisions of this ordinance.
   HELIPORT.  An area used for the landing and take-off of helicopters,
including any structures, buildings and equipment associated with that use.
   HISTORIC SITE.  All structures and other features identified as
contributing, noteable or outstanding by the State Historic Sites and
Structures Inventory - County Interim Report, or listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures, as well as any subsequent amendments and/or additions to any of
these publications.
   HOME ELECTRONICS/APPLIANCE STORE.  An establishment that primarily sells
home appliances, electronics and related accessories.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  An occupation carried on in a dwelling unit by a resident
thereof which is limited in extent and incidental and secondary to the use of
the dwelling unit for residential purposes, and therefore does not change its
residential character.
   HOMEOWNER’S ASSOCIATION.  See LOT OWNER’S ASSOCIATION.
   HOSPITAL.  An institution licensed by the State Department of Health to
provide health services for the sick or injured, and where, during the course
of treatment, patients are housed overnight, fed and provided nursing and
related services. Related services may include, but are not limited to,
laboratories, out-patient departments, training facilities, central service
facilities and staff offices which are an integral part of the facility. The
institution must be operated by, or treatment given under direct supervision of
a licensed physician. Types of hospitals include general, mental, chronic
disease and allied special hospitals such as cardiac, contagious disease,
maternity, orthopedic, cancer and the like. HOSPITAL does not include nursing
homes, retirement facilities, shelters or boarding houses.
   HOTEL. A building offering transient lodging to the public for compensation
in which egress and ingress from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or
office and which may provide additional services, such as restaurants, meeting
rooms and recreation facilities.
   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT.  A group of individuals functioning as a single
household, making common use of a single kitchen and other social quarters. See
also FAMILY.
   ICE CREAM SHOP.  Any establishment that primarily offers ice cream and
frozen desserts to be eaten on or off premises.
   ILLUMINATION, EXTERNAL.  Illumination of a sign that is affected by an
artificial source of light not contained within the sign itself.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.  Any hard-surfaced, human-made area that prevents
absorption of stormwater into the ground.
   IMPROVEMENT.  Any building, structure, bridge, work of art, area, parking
facility, public facility, fence, gate, wall, landscaping, or other object
constituting a physical addition to real property. See also PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.  A permit allowing a person to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish
any structure; alter the condition of the land; change the use or occupancy of
a property; or otherwise cause any change to occur that is subject to the
requirements of this ordinance.
   IMPROVEMENT, OFF-SITE.  See OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENT.
   INCIDENTAL.  A minor occurrence or condition that is customarily associated
with a permitted use and is likely to ensue from normal operations.
   INCIDENTAL SALES.  See SALES, INCIDENTAL.
   INCINERATOR.  A facility that uses thermal combustion processes to destroy
or alter the character or composition of medical waste, sludge, soil or
municipal solid waste (not including animal or human remains).
   INDECISIVE VOTE.  A vote which fails to receive a majority, either in favor
or opposed.
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.  The use of a property or area for the manufacture,
fabrication, processing, reduction or destruction of any article, substance or
commodity, including related storage facilities and warehouses. Refers to the
PBI and ID Zoning Districts.
   INFRASTRUCTURE.  Facilities and services needed to sustain industry,
residential, commercial and all other land use activities, including utilities
and streets.
   INGRESS.  An entrance.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle which meets one or more of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle from which the engine, transmission or
differential has been removed, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
mechanically inoperable; or
      (2)   Any motor vehicle which cannot be driven on a public street without
being subject to issuance of a traffic citation by reason of its operating
condition or not displaying a valid and current license plate.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE STORAGE.  The outdoor storage of inoperable motor
vehicles and their parts.
   INSPECTORS.  Employees of the Plan Commission authorized by the
Administrator to enter, examine and survey all lands within the city to
accomplish the enforcement of this ordinance and any other land use regulations
of the city.
   INSTITUTIONAL FACILITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED.  An institutional
facility that provides care, supervision and protection for persons with
developmental disabilities consistent with the provisions of the State Code.
See also RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED.
   INSTITUTIONAL FACILITY FOR THE MENTALLY ILL.  An institutional facility that
provides care, supervision and protection for mentally ill persons consistent
with the provisions of the State Code. See also RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE
MENTALLY ILL.
   INTENSE BURNING.  See BURNING, INTENSE.
   INTERESTED PARTY.  Those persons, groups, property owners or other entities
that are considered or consider themselves to be affected by a change in land
use or the results of an application to change land use. (For the purposes of
public notification, INTERESTED PARTY is defined by the Plan Commission Rules
and Procedures.)
   INTERIOR LOT.  See LOT, INTERIOR.
   INVESTMENT FIRM.  Any office where the primary occupation is concerned with
businesses that buy and sell stocks, bonds and other notes of purchase.
   JEWELRY STORE.  Store that primarily sells new jewelry, with some sales of
used merchandise.
   JUNK.  Scrap or waste material of any kind.
   JUNK YARD/SALVAGE YARD.  Any place at which personal property is or may be
salvaged for reuse, resale or reduction or similar disposition and is owned,
possessed, collected, accumulated, dismantled or assorted. Including but not
limited to, used or salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or
combinations, used or salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber,
millwork, brick and similar property except animal matter; and used motor
vehicles, machinery or equipment which is used, owned or possessed for the
purpose of wrecking or salvaging parts therefrom.
   JURISDICTION.  Any area over which a unit of government exercises power and
authority.
   KENNEL.  An establishment which houses three or more dogs, cats or other
small animals, and where boarding, grooming, breeding, training or selling of
animals is conducted either for commercial or noncommercial purposes.
   KINDERGARTEN or DAY NURSERY.  A preschool for children who are ages four to
six years. This type of educational facility can be part of a public school
system and taught during the year preceding first grade.
   LAND USE.  The occupation or use of land for any human activity or purpose.
   LAND USE PETITION.  A rezoning petition, variance petition, conditional use
petition or any other petition permitted by rules of procedure adopted by the
Plan Commission.
   LANDSCAPE BUFFER.  See BUFFER.
   LANDSCAPING.  The improvement of a lot with grass, shrubs, trees and other
vegetation and/or ornamental objects. LANDSCAPING may include pedestrian walks,
flower beds, berms, fountains and other similar natural and human-made objects.
   LANDSCAPING, DEFECTIVE.  Dead or dying plant material, damaged berms, walls,
fences and/or other landscaping elements.
   LAUNDRY (SELF SERVICE).  A business with vending machine type washing,
drying, dry-cleaning and ironing equipment for use by customers on site.
   LAUNDRY SERVICE (LARGE-SCALE).  A large scale establishment that cleans
fabrics, textiles, wearing apparel or articles of any sort by immersion and
agitation in volatile solvents and all related processes. LAUNDRY SERVICES
serve businesses and individuals, generally with the cleaners picking up and
delivering the clothing or uniforms to its clients.
   LEASE.  To rent, to permit the possession of or to grant the right of
possession or use of a lot, parcel, tract, land or group of lots, parcels,
tracts or lands for compensation.
   LEGAL DRAIN.  Any drainage system consisting of an open drain, a tiled
drain, or any combination of the two, and is under the jurisdiction of the
County Drainage Board as provided by I.C. 36-9-27.
   LEGAL NONCONFORMING LOT.  Any lot which has been legally established and
recorded prior to the effective date of this ordinance, or its subsequent
amendments, or has been granted a variance from this ordinance, that does not
meet the lot-specific development standards.
   LEGAL NONCONFORMING USE.  Any continuous, lawful use of structures, land or
structures and land in combination established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, or its subsequent amendments, that does not meet the
requirements of this ordinance for a permitted use in the zoning district in
which it is located.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).  An amendment to the currently effective
FEMA map that establishes that a property, area and/or structure is not located
in a special flood hazard area (SFHA). A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).  An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
   LIBRARY.  A public facility for the use, but not sale, of literary, musical,
artistic or reference materials.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL PROCESSING AND DISTRIBUTION.  Processing and distribution
of materials and products from processed or previously manufactured materials.
LIGHT INDUSTRY is capable of operation in a manner as to control the external
effects of processing such as smoke, noise, odor and the like.
   LINEAR PARK.  A park or other green, open space that forms a corridor, or is
a part of a corridor along a body of water, street or pedestrian/bicycle trail.
   LIQUOR STORE.  A store that offers retail and/or wholesale liquor, including
wine and beer.
   LIVESTOCK.  See FARM ANIMALS.
   LIVESTOCK AUCTION/SALES FACILITY.  A commercial establishment where
livestock is collected and auctioned and/or sold. Livestock at the facility are
there on a temporary basis, for immediate sale only and not housed long term.
   LIVESTOCK RAISING AND BREEDING.  The production and upkeep of livestock for
the purposes of sale, including the feeding, sheltering, grazing and shipping
of livestock, including the storage of all necessary materials and equipment.
   LOADING SPACES/LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS.  The off-street area required
for the receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise.
   LOCAL STREET.  See STREET, LOCAL.
   LOCATION MAP.  A map showing the location of the property proposed to be
subdivided. The map shall show the closest cross streets in all directions.
   LODGE or PRIVATE CLUB.  A membership organization that holds regular
meetings and that may, subject to other regulations controlling those uses,
maintain dining facilities, serve alcohol or engage professional entertainment
for the enjoyment of dues paying members and their guests. There are no
sleeping facilities.
   LODGING HOUSE.  A building where long-term rental lodging is provided for
compensation to three or more, but not exceeding 12 persons.
   LOT.  A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet the minimum
zoning requirements of the zone in which it is located, and that has frontage
and access on an improved public street, or on an approved private street. A
LOT may be a single parcel separately described in a deed which is recorded in
the office of the County Recorder; or a LOT may be a single parcel separately
described in a survey which is recorded in the office of the County Recorder;
or a LOT may include a parcel contained in a plat or subdivision of land which
is recorded in the office of the County Recorder; or a LOT may include parts
of, or a combination of, the parcels which are adjacent to one another and used
as one.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2141.jpg]
 
   LOT AREA.  The horizontal area within the exterior lines of a lot, including
any easements, but excluding any rights-of-way or other similar dedications to
the public.
   LOT, BUILDABLE.  Any lot upon which improvements are permitted to be
constructed, or which is otherwise allowed to be occupied and used consistent
with all applicable requirements of this ordinance.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot located at the junction of and abutting two or more
intersecting streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2143.jpg]
 
   LOT COVERAGE.  The total ground area of a lot usually expressed as a
percentage of the lot area that is covered, occupied or enclosed by buildings
structures, parking areas, driveways, walkways and other paved or impervious
surface.
   LOT DEPTH.  The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot, measured in the general direction of the side lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2145.jpg]
 
   LOT, DEVELOPED.  A lot upon which improvements have been made or is
otherwise being used for human purposes.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.  See LOT, THROUGH.
   LOT, FLAG.  A lot with access provided to the bulk of the lot by means of a
narrow corridor.
   LOT FRONTAGE.  The linear distance of a lot measured at the front lot line
where the lot abuts a street right-of-way, measured between side lot lines.
   LOT, IMPROVED.  See LOT, DEVELOPED.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  Any lot which is not a corner lot or through lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2147.jpg]
 
   LOT, IRREGULAR.  A lot that is characterized by elongations, angles, shapes
and/or configuration that is inconsistent with the topography, street systems,
other lots and other features of the area in which it is located.
   LOT, LEGAL NONCONFORMING.  See LEGAL NONCONFORMING LOT.
   LOT LINE.  The property lines which define the lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT.  For an interior or through lot, the line marking the
boundary between the lot and the abutting street right-of-way. For a corner
lot, the line marking the boundary between the lot and each of the abutting
street rights-of-way.
   LOT LINE, REAR.  A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line and, in the case of an irregular or triangular-shaped lot, a
line ten feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance
from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE.  Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder of Boone County, Indiana; or
a parcel of land, the deed to which has been recorded in the Office of the
County Recorder of Boone County, Indiana, prior to the date of passage of this
ordinance.
   LOT OWNER’S ASSOCIATION.  An incorporated nonprofit organization operating
under recorded land agreements through which each lot owner is automatically a
member and each lot is automatically subject to a proportionate share of the
expenses for the organization’s activities, such as maintaining common
property.
   LOT, RECORDED.  See LOT OF RECORD.
   LOT, THROUGH.  A lot having frontage on two or more non-intersecting
streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2149.jpg]
 
   LOT, UNDEVELOPED.  A lot of record upon which no improvements exist.
   LOT WIDTH.  The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured at the
required minimum front setback line or built-line affecting the property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2151.jpg]
 
   LOT, ZONING.  A single tract of land that, at the time of application for an
improvement location permit, is designated by the applicant for the purpose of
complying with this ordinance as the tract to be used, developed or built upon.
A ZONING LOT or lots may coincide with one or more lots of record.
   LOWEST FLOOR.
      (1)   The lowest of the following:
         (a)   The top of the basement floor;
         (b)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level
of the building;
         (c)   The top of the first floor of buildings elevated on pilings or
constructed on a crawl space with permanent openings; or
         (d)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless the walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
flood waters, by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways
and windows) having a total area of one square inch for every one square foot
of enclosed area subject to flooding.
      (2)   The bottom of all those openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; the enclosed space shall be usable for the parking of vehicles and
building access.
   LUMBER YARD.  An area used primarily for the storage, distribution and sale
of finished or rough-cut lumber and lumber products.
   LUMINAIRE.  A complete lighting unit consisting of a light source and all
necessary mechanical, electrical and decorative parts.
   LUMINAIRE, CUT-OFF TYPE.  A luminaire with elements such as shields,
reflectors or refractor angles that direct and cut-off light.
   LUMINAIRE, FULL CUT-OFF TYPE.  A luminaire with no light emitted above the
horizontal plane.
   LUMINAIRE, SEMI-CUT-OFF TYPE.  A luminaire with less than 5% of the lamp
lumens emitted above the horizontal plane.
   MANEUVERING AISLE.  A maneuvering space which serves two or more parking
spaces, such as the area between two rows of parking spaces and/or the driveway
leading to those spaces.
   MANEUVERING SPACE.  An open space in a parking area which is immediately
adjacent to a parking space; is used for and/or is necessary for turning,
backing or driving forward a motor vehicle into the parking space; but is not
used for the parking or storage of motor vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  See DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.  A parcel of land containing two or more dwelling
sites, with required improvements and utilities, that are leased for long term
placement of manufactured home dwellings. A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK does not
involve sales of manufactured home dwellings in which unoccupied units are
parked for inspection or sale.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SALES.  The sale and incidental storage of single-family
detached housing that includes manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SITE.  The area of land in a manufactured home park for
the placement of one manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY.
      (1)   Involves transforming refined materials which creates smoke, gas,
odor, dust, noise, vibration of earth, soot or lighting to a degree that is
offensive  when measured at the property line of subject property. HEAVY
MANUFACTURING in general industrial districts are intended to provide suitable
areas for manufacturing, assembling, fabrication and processing, bulk handling,
storage, warehousing and trucking.
      (2)   The uses associated with this district are likely to generate
significant levels of truck traffic, noise, pollution, vibration, dust, fumes,
odors, pesticides, herbicides, or other hazardous materials, fire or explosion
hazards, or other undesirable conditions. Conditional uses permitted in this
district are primarily those know to create a safety hazard or produce
particulate matter, thus being subject to various state and/or federal
environmental laws.
      (3)   Heavy industrial districts are highly unsuitable adjacent to
residential districts and are generally unfit for the sustained activity of
humans and animals. Therefore, uses involving human activity such as dwellings,
care centers, and certain commercial uses are not permitted. Activity at heavy
industrial sites consists predominately of trucks, rather than passenger
vehicles, and the road system is built to support truck traffic.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. To provide for those industrial uses that include
fabrication, assembly or processing of materials that are in refined form.
LIGHT MANUFACTURING is considered for the processing of electronics, general
material products, and research and development which produces a low intensity
industrial use. Such light industrial uses controlled operations; relatively
clean, quiet and free of objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke,
noise, odor, or dust; operating and storing within enclosed structures; and
generating fluid traffic and no nuisance. Uses permitted in this district are
primarily those not known to create a safety hazard of produce particulate
matter, thus being subject to various state and/or federal environmental laws.
   MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING, ASSEMBLING. The mechanical or chemical
transformation of materials or substances into new products. The land uses
engaged in these activities are usually described as plants, factories or mills
and characteristically use power-driven machines and materials handling
equipment. Establishments engaged in assembling component parts of manufactured
products are also included under this definition if the new product is neither
a fixed structure nor other fixed improvement. Also included is the blending of
materials such as lubricating oils, plastic resins, or liquors. This definition
does not include harvesting of crops or hay.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET.  See FRONTAGE ROAD.
   MARKER (SURVEY).  A stake or any other object which is intended to mark a
survey point on a lot or within a subdivision.
   MARQUEE.  Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MASONRY.  Construction material that consists of brick, stone, tile, rock,
granite, marble or other built-up panels of these materials, or molded concrete
that is held together with mortar, as long as the molded concrete does not make
up a continuous wall section.
   MASSAGE PARLOR.  See HEALTH SPA.
   MASSING.
      (1)   The shape and form a building takes on through architectural
design.
      (2)   There are ten architectural design elements that create urban
space:
         (a)   Building silhouette (similar pitch and scale to a roof line);
         (b)   Spacing between building facades (setbacks or notches between
primary facades that frame the structure);
         (c)   Setback from property line (building setback and/or primary
facade setback from the property line);
         (d)   Proportion of windows, bays and doorways (vertical or horizontal
elements tied together in bands across facade lengths);
         (e)   Proportion of primary facade (size of facades similar in area
and height to width ratios);
         (f)   Location and treatment of entryway (important visual commonality
between structures);
         (g)   Exterior materials used (similar materials and treatment add to
detail and monumentality of a building);
         (h)   Building scale (similarity of building height and
configuration);
         (i)   Landscaping (ties together buildings and defines space); and
         (j)   Shadow patterns form decorative features (the light and dark
surfaces from materials used and projections from windows, bays and setbacks
create visual breaks).
      (3)   A specific project may not need to incorporate all ten elements.
   MEAT MARKET (BUTCHER).  A market that primarily offers retail and/or
wholesale meats, but may also sell related incidental products.
   MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.  Equipment installed for a use appurtenant to the
principal use. The equipment may include heating and air conditioning
equipment, solar collectors, parabolic antennas and power generating devices.
   MEDICAL OR HEALTH CLINIC.  A facility in which human patients are admitted
for medical or dental study or treatment on an out-patient only basis, and in
which the services of at least two physicians or dentists are provided.
   MEDICAL OFFICE.  A building, other than a hospital, used by one or more
licensed physicians for the purpose of receiving and treating patients.
   METES AND BOUNDS.  A description of land prepared by a state-registered land
surveyor providing measured distances and courses from known or established
points on the surface of the earth.
   MICROBREWERY (BREW-PUB).  A facility for the production and packaging of
malt beverages of low alcoholic content for distribution, retail or wholesale,
on or off premise, with a capacity of not more than 15,000 barrels per year.
The development may include other uses such as a standard restaurant, bar or
live entertainment.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION.  The extraction of metallic and nonmetallic minerals or
materials from the earth for use off-site, including incidental uses and
facilities such as rock crushing, screening and the necessary storage and use
of explosives.
   MINI-STORAGE FACILITY.  A storage structure containing separate storage
spaces of varying sizes, each for individual purchase or rental for the storage
of household goods.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION.  A subdivision which results in the creation of four or
fewer lots from a parent tract, whether at the same time or over the course of
time.
   MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT.  An area, parcel of land or structure developed for
two or more different land uses.
   MOBILE HOME.  See DWELLING, MOBILE HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  See MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   MODERATE BURNING.  See BURNING, MODERATE.
   MONUMENT.  See MARKER (SURVEY).
   MOTEL.  A building or a group of detached or connected buildings devoted to
the provision of sleeping accommodations for automobile transients and
containing bedroom, bathroom, closet space and convenient access to a parking
space. MOTELS may include other accessory uses such as restaurants, swimming
pools, meeting rooms and the like. A MOTEL furnishes customary services such as
maid service and laundering of linen, telephone, secretarial or desk service
and the use and upkeep of furniture. See also HOTEL.
   MOTORBUS OR RAILROAD PASSENGER STATION.  A centralized and/or primary
community facility for the transient housing or parking of motor driven buses,
trains or similar mass transit modes of transportation and the loading and
unloading of passengers.
   MOTOR HOME.  See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any passenger vehicle, truck, tractor, tractor-trailer,
truck-trailer, trailer or semi-trailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
   MOTOR VEHICLE, INOPERABLE.  See VEHICLE, INOPERABLE.
   MULTIFAMILY DWELLING.  See DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY.
   MULTI-TENANT BUILDING.  A grouping of two or more business establishments
that either share common parking on the lot where they are located, or that
occupy a single structure or separate structures that are physically or
functionally related or attached.
   MULTI-USE PATHWAY.  See PATHWAY.
   MUSEUM.  A building having public significance by reason of its architecture
or former use or occupancy, or a building housing a specific collection of
natural, scientific or literary materials, objects of interest or works of art
and designed to be used by the public with or without an admission charge. It
may include as an accessory use the sale of goods to the public.
   NATURAL CONDITION.  The condition that arises from, or is found in nature
unmodified by human intervention.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE.  Drainage channels, routes and ways formed over time in
the surface topography of the earth prior to any modifications or improvements
made by unnatural causes and/or human intervention.
   NATURAL FEATURES.  The physical characteristics of a property or area that
are not human-made, such as soil types, geology, slopes, vegetation and
drainage patterns.
   NATURE PRESERVE/CENTER.  An area in which plants, animals and topographic
features are protected in their current, natural condition.
   NEIGHBORHOOD RECREATIONAL AREA.  A private recreation area which is owned by
a neighborhood association or a developer and is only for the use of the
residents of that subdivision.
   NEWS DEALER.  An establishment that primarily sells newspapers, magazines
and other periodicals.
   NIGHT CLUB.  A commercial establishment operated as a place of entertainment
featuring live, recorded or televised musical, comedy or magic performances;
dancing; and/or the serving of alcoholic beverages.
   NO-ACCESS EASEMENT.  Public easement along a public right-of-way across
which the access to the property is not permitted.
   NO-ACCESS RESERVATION.  A restriction placed on a lot, typically shown as a
line labeled as that on preliminary and final subdivision plats, that prohibits
vehicular access from the affected lot(s) to an adjacent street.
   NONCONFORMING LOT, USE OR STRUCTURE (LEGALLY).  See LEGAL NONCONFORMING LOT
or LEGAL NONCONFORMING USE.
   NONCONFORMING LOT.  A lot that does not conform to the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.  A building or other structure that does not
conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE.  A use of land that does not conform with the regulations
of the district in which it is located.
   NUISANCE.  An interference with the enjoyment and use of property as defined
by the nuisance ordinances of the city.
   NURSERY.  An enterprise that conducts the retail and/or wholesale of plants
grown on the premises, as well as accessory items (but not power equipment,
such as gas or electric lawn mowers and farm implements) directly related to
their care and maintenance.
   NURSING HOME.  Any institution, whether operated for profit or not,
including a place operated by a county or municipality, which undertakes
through its ownership or management to provide for a period exceeding 24 hours,
nursing care, personal care or custodial care for three or more persons not
related to the owner or manager by blood or marriage, who by reason of illness,
physical infirmity or advanced age require those services, but, in
contradistinction to a hospital, does not include any place providing care or
treatment primarily for the acutely ill.
   OBJECTIONABLE ODOR.  Odors that are nauseating, noxious or generally
recognized as unpleasant.
   OCCUPANCY.  The use of any land or structure.
   OCCUPIED SPACE.  The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding garages, patios and porches and other accessory
structures.
   OCTAVE BAND.  A narrow range of sound frequencies which classify sounds
according to pitch. In the octave band analyzer, the audible sound spectrum is
divided into eight OCTAVE BANDS.
   OCTAVE BAND ANALYZER.  An electrical device used with the sound level meter
that sorts a complex noise or sound into the various octave bonds.
   OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENT.  An improvement related to new development that
occurs, or is constructed on property that is outside of the parcel or tract
that is being developed. OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS typically include, but are not
limited to drainage, public water systems, public sewer systems and streets.
   OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL.  See PROFESSIONAL OFFICE.
   OFFICE SUPPLY STORE.  A large establishment that offers retail and wholesale
office supplies including items such as paper, writing utensils, computer
equipment and office furniture.
   OFFICE USE/BUILDING.  Administrative, executive, professional, research or
similar organizations and laboratories having only limited contact with the
public, with no merchandise or merchandising services sold on the premises.
   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.  A map of the City of Lebanon, Indiana and its
vicinity, that legally denotes the boundaries of zoning districts as they apply
to the properties within the Plan Commission’s jurisdiction.
   OIL CHANGE SHOP.  A facility that provides lubrication, checking, changing
and the addition of those fluids and filters needed for automobile maintenance.
Generally those services are provided while the customer waits.
   OPEN SPACE.  The total horizontal area of a lot excluding buildings, parking
areas, drives and sidewalks/pathways (unless related to recreation) but
including recreational area, landscaped area, wetlands, streams, meadows or
open fields containing baseball, football and soccer fields, golf courses,
swimming pools and wooded areas. In residential districts, the OPEN SPACE may
include the usable roof area within the project which has been improved for
outdoor use of occupants.
   ORNAMENTAL SHRUB.  See SHRUB, ORNAMENTAL.
   ORNAMENTAL TREE.  See TREE, ORNAMENTAL.
   OUTDOOR COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL ENTERPRISE.  An establishment whose main
purpose is to provide the general public with an amusing or entertaining
activity and where tickets are sold or fees are collected for the activity.
These activities include, but are not limited to, skating rinks, water slides,
go-cart tracks, carnivals and amusement parks.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE.  The keeping of items for sale, the products of
manufacturing, materials used in production, vehicles and other similar
materials and/or equipment in an area outside of any building.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE, SEASONAL.  The outdoor storage of items for retail sale
that are, by their nature, sold during a peak season, such as fruits and
vegetables, Christmas trees, lawn accessories and bedding plants.
   OUTLOT.  A lot platted as part of a larger development that is intended for
the development of uses and structures which are complementary to but of a
smaller scale than the principal use or structure in the development.
   OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT.  A zoning district that extends across one or more
other zoning districts which is intended to provide additional or alternate
regulations for a specific critical feature or resource.
   OWNER.  Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to, or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land, or their legal representative.
   OWNER’S ASSOCIATION.  See LOT OWNER’S ASSOCIATION.
   PACKAGING FACILITY.  A facility that packages supplies and products that are
manufactured off- site.
   PARAPET.  The portion of a wall which extends above the roof line.
   PARCEL.  See LOT.
   PARENT TRACT.  The land from which the new lot or tract of land is being
taken from, as recorded in the Recorder’s office at the time of adoption of
this ordinance or any subsequent amendments thereto.
   PARK.  Any public or private land and related structures, including athletic
facilities, shelter houses and maintenance facilities that are designed to
provide recreational, educational, cultural or aesthetic use to the community.
   PARKING LOT.  An open off-street area to be used for the storage of motor
vehicles, whether free or for compensation, for limited periods of time. A
PARKING LOT includes all parking spaces, interior drives and maneuvering areas.
   PARKING, OFF-STREET.  A storage space for an automobile located outside of a
street right-of-way.
   PARKING, ON-STREET.  A storage space for an automobile that is located
within the right-of-way of a street.
   PARKING, SHARED.  A parking space or lot used jointly by two or more uses or
structures.
   PARKING SPACE.  A space within a public or private parking area for the
storage of one motor vehicle.
   PARKING STRUCTURE.  A structure of two or more stories, whether privately or
publicly owned, used for parking.
   PARTICULATE MATTER.  Finely divided liquid or solid material which is
discharged and carried along in the air. This shall not include water droplets,
commonly called steam.
   PATHWAY.  A designated route for travel by pedestrians, bicycles and other
non-motorized methods of personal transportation and recreation which is
surfaced with crushed rock, concrete or asphalt and separated from streets by
distance or striping. See also TRAIL.
   PAVED SURFACE.  A durable surface for parking, driving, riding or similar
activities that utilizes asphalt, portland cement, concrete, brick, paving
blocks or similar material. Crushed gravel, street grindings, stone, rock or
dirt, sand or grass are not a PAVED SURFACE.
   PENAL (CORRECTIONAL) INSTITUTION.  Publicly or privately operated facilities
housing persons awaiting trial or persons serving a sentence after being found
guilty of a criminal offense.
   PERFORMANCE BOND or SURETY BOND.  A personal or corporate surety agreement
between a subdivider and the surety in favor of a governmental body
guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements according to plan and
specifications within the time prescribed by the subdivider’s agreement. See
also SURETY.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION.  A structural system for transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil. See also
FOUNDATION.
   PERSON.  A natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
trust, organization, unit of government or any other entity that acts as a
unit, including all members of any group.
   PERSONAL SERVICES.  An establishment or place of business primarily engaged
in the provision of frequent and recurrent services of a personal nature, such
as a beauty or barber shop, shoe repair shop or tanning salon.
   PERVIOUS PAVEMENT.  A hard surface that presents an opportunity for
precipitation to infiltrate into the ground.
   PERVIOUS SURFACE.  A surface that presents an opportunity for precipitation
to infiltrate into the ground.
   PET STORE.  A retail sales facility primarily involved in the sale of
domestic animals, such as cats, dogs, fish, birds and reptiles as well as
domestic pet accessories. A PET SHOP does not include the retail sale of exotic
or farm animals.
   PETITIONER.  Any person who formally makes a request before the Plan
Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals consistent with the processes and
requirements of this ordinance. See also APPLICANT.
   PETROLEUM PROCESSING AND STORAGE.  An establishment that processes and
stores petroleum and its raw ingredients.
   PHARMACY.  A place where drugs and medicines are prepared and dispensed.
PHARMACY also includes the incidental retail sale of medical accessories and
convenience goods and services.
   PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO.  A facility engaged in on-site photography, processing
and development, including limited retail sale, lease and service of
photography equipment and supplies.
   PLACE OF WORSHIP.  See CHURCH.
   PLAN.  See COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   PLAN COMMISSION.  The Lebanon Plan Commission.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.  A large-scale unified development meeting the
requirements of this ordinance. Generally a PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT consists
of a parcel or parcels of land, controlled by a single person, to be developed
as a single entity which does not correspond in size of lots, bulk or type of
buildings, density, lot coverage and required open space to the regulations
established in any zoning district of this ordinance.
   PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  See ADMINISTRATOR, PLANNING AND ZONING.
   PLANTING SEASON.  The spring and fall time periods during which new plant
material which is installed is most likely to survive the planting process.
Generally, these periods are from April 15 to June 15 in the spring and from
October 15 to November 15 in the fall.
   PLAT.  A map or chart indicating the subdivision or re-subdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   PLAT COMMITTEE.  A committee established by the Plan Commission to review
and make decisions on minor subdivision and administrative subdivision
petitions.
   PLAT, MINOR.  See MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   PLAT, PRIMARY.  The map and supporting information indicating the proposed
layout of the subdivision and presented to the Commission for consideration and
primary approval in accordance with these regulations.
   PLAT, SECONDARY.  A drawing, in final form, showing the subdivider’s plan of
subdivision, containing all information or detail required by law and by these
regulations and which is to be presented to the Plan Commission for approval;
if approved and signed by the designated officials, the plat may be duly filed
or recorded by the applicant in the office of the County Recorder.
   PLAYGROUND.  A recreational area for use primarily by children.
   POLICE, FIRE OR RESCUE STATION.  An outpost station that serves as an office
of operation for police, fire and/or rescue services. The stations include
personnel, equipment, vehicles and training facilities.
   PORCH.  A covered, but otherwise unenclosed structure projecting out from
the wall or walls of a main structure.
   POROUS PAVEMENT.  See PERVIOUS PAVEMENT.
   POST OFFICE.  A facility operated by the United States postal service that
houses service windows for mailing packages and letters, post office boxes,
offices, vehicle storage areas and sorting and distribution facilities for
mail.
   POWER GENERATION FACILITY.  A facility that produces usable electricity by
harnessing any array of resources including fossil fuels, water, wind and solar
sources.
   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY.  A difficulty with regard to one’s ability to improve
land stemming from regulations of this ordinance. A PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY is not
a hardship, rather it is a situation where the owner could comply with the
regulations within the zoning ordinance, but would like a variance from the
development standards to improve his or her site in a practical manner. For
instance, a person may request a variance from a side yard setback due to a
large tree which is blocking the only location that would meet the development
standards for a new garage location.
   PREMISES.  A lot or plot of land, including any buildings thereon.
   PRIMARY APPROVAL.  An approval (or approval with conditions) granted to a
subdivision by the Plan Commission, indicating that it has determined after a
public hearing that the subdivision complies with the standards prescribed in
this ordinance.
   PRIMARY PLAT.  See PLAT, PRIMARY.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE.  See STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL.
   PRINCIPAL USE.  See USE, PRINCIPAL.
   PRINT SHOP (COPY CENTER).  A facility for the custom reproduction of written
or graphic materials on a custom order basis for individuals or businesses.
Typical processes include, but are not limited to, photocopying, blueprint and
facsimile sending and receiving, and including offset printing.
   PRINTING FACILITY.  Any facility that prints publications including books,
magazines and newspapers for the purposes of sale and/or distribution.
   PRIVATE CLUB.  A facility or property owned or operated by a corporation,
association, person or persons for a social, educational or recreational
purpose and for which membership is required for participation.
   PRIVATE RECREATIONAL FACILITY.  A recreational facility for use by residents
and guests of a particular residential development, church, private primary or
secondary educational facility or limited residential neighborhood, including
both indoor and outdoor facilities and privately-owned golf courses open to the
public.
   PRIVATE STREET/DRIVE.  See STREET, PRIVATE.
   PROCESSING PLANT.  A building or an enclosed space used for the collection
and processing of material. PROCESSING means the preparation of material for
efficient shipment, or to an end-user’s specifications, by means such as
baling, briquetting, compacting, flattening, grinding, crushing, mechanical
sorting, shredding, cleaning and remanufacturing.
   PRODUCE TERMINAL.  A large warehouse facility that sells produce at
wholesale to retailers, hotels, catering services and other businesses.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE.  Office of a member or members of a recognized
profession, including, but not limited to, architects, artists, dentists,
engineers, lawyers, musicians, physicians, surgeons or pharmacists, and
realtors or insurance agents and brokers.
   PROHIBITED TREE.  See TREE, PROHIBITED.
   PROPERTY OWNER.  See OWNER.
   PUBLIC ART.  Any visual work of art that is accessible to public view and
located on public or private property.
   PUBLIC HEARING.  A formal meeting, announced and advertised in advance
consistent with the requirements of this ordinance, which is open to the
public, and at which members of the public have an opportunity to participate.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.  Any drainage ditch, street, highway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian-way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement or other
facility for which the local government may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established.
   PUBLIC STREET.  See STREET, PUBLIC.
   PUBLIC UTILITY INSTALLATIONS.  The erection, construction, alteration or
maintenance by public utilities, municipal departments, commissions or common
carriers of underground, surface or overhead gas, oil, electrical, steam,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, towers and other similar equipment and accessories in connection
therewith, by public utility or municipal departments, commissions or common
carriers, for the public health or safety or general welfare.
   PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURE.  Electric and telephone substations and
distribution centers, filtration plants, pumping stations and water reservoirs;
public or package sewer treatment plants, telephone exchanges; radio and
television transmitting or relay stations; antenna towers and other similar
public utility service structures.
   PUBLISHING FACILITY.  Any facility that prints and/or assembles publications
including books, magazines and newspapers for the purposes of sale and/or
distribution.
   QUARRY.  A lot or any part of a lot used for the extracting of stone, sand,
gravel or any other material to be processed for commercial purposes.
   RACETRACK.  Any measured venue for the sport of racing where animals or
machines are entered in competition against one another or against time. A
RACETRACK may or may not have areas for spectators. RACETRACK includes, but is
not limited to, oval track racing, drag racing, motorcross, tractor pulling,
go-cart racing, remote control airplane flying and similar uses.
   RADIO STATION.  An establishment that broadcasts radio signal programming.
   REAR SETBACK.  See SETBACK, REAR.
   RECORD.  The written documentation of the actions and expressions of a
public body, such as the Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals.
   RECORD SHOP (CD SHOP).  An establishment that primarily deals with new and
used audio recordings in an array of media formats. Some shops also include the
sales of new and used video recordings as well.
   RECREATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, PRIVATE.  A recreational establishment held in
private ownership and either open only to members or open to the general public
in exchange for an admission fee.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  Any building, structure or vehicle designed and/or
used for seasonal living or sleeping and/or recreational purposes and equipped
with wheels to facilitate movement from place to place (either under its own
power or towed by another vehicle). RECREATIONAL VEHICLES are built on a single
chassis and measure 400 square feet or less, including the largest horizontal
projections, and are of a size that is street legal. RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
include pick-up truck coaches, motorized homes, boats, travel trailers, snow
mobiles and camping trailers not meeting the definition of a manufactured or
mobile home.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK.  Any site, lot, field or tract designed with
facilities for the temporary use of recreational vehicles.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SALES.  The sale and incidental storage of recreational
vehicles.
   RECYCLING CENTER.  A facility for the collection, sorting, storing and
processing of paper products, glass, plastics, aluminum or tin cans prior to
shipment for remanufacture into new materials.
   REFUSE DUMP.  A facility designated to receive and hold municipal solid
waste and other waste matters. Waste at a refuse dump is not compacted or
covered as it is in a sanitary landfill. See also SANITARY LANDFILL.
   REGISTERED ARCHITECT.  An architect properly licensed and registered or
through reciprocity permitted to practice in the state.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR.  A land surveyor properly licensed and registered
or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the state.
   REGISTERED LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.  A landscape architect properly licensed and
registered or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the state.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  An engineer properly licensed and
registered or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the state.
   REGULATORY FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure which is
acceptable to and approved by the State Natural Resources Commission and the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the
term BASE FLOOD. See also BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to
efficiently carry and discharge peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river
or stream and, is that area covered by floodwaters in significant downstream
motion or covered by significant volumes of stored water during the occurrence
of the regulatory flood.
   REPAIR SERVICES.  Establishments that provide repair services to individuals
and households, rather than businesses, not including automotive and equipment
repair. Typically, the services include the repair of appliances, watches,
jewelry and musical instruments.
   REPLAT or RESUBDIVISION.  Any change in a recorded plat which does not
result in the creation of additional lots. It may include all or any part of a
previous subdivision or plat. A REPLAT shall be considered an administrative
subdivision, provided no new streets or utility expansions are required.
   RESCUE STATION.  See POLICE, FIRE OR RESCUE STATION.
   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. Establishments primarily engaged in the research,
development, and controlled production of high-technology electronic,
industrial or scientific products or commodities for sale. Any RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT facility proposed which produces offensive odor, dust, noise,
bright lights, vibration of the storage of hazardous material or products are
prohibited.
   RESEARCH LABORATORY.  A structure or group of structures used primarily for
applied and developmental research where product testing is an integral part of
the operation and goods or products used in the testing may be manufactured and
stored.
   RESIDENCE.  See DWELLING.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  An area used primarily for dwellings.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED TYPE I.  A residential
facility which provides residential services for not more than eight
developmentally disabled individuals, as defined by I.C. 12-28-4-8.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED TYPE II.  A
residential facility which provides residential services for more than eight
developmentally disabled individuals, as defined by I.C. 12-28-4-8.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE MENTALLY ILL.  A residential facility which
provides residential services for mentally ill individuals, as defined by I.C.
12-28-4-7.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT CENTER.  Any facility licensed by the State Department
of Health, public or private, which regularly provides one or more people with
24-hour a day substitute care, food, lodging, training, education, supervision,
habilitation, rehabilitation and treatment they need, but which for any reason
can not be furnished in the person’s own home.
   RESTAURANT.  A structure in which the principal use is the preparation and
sale of food and beverages.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN.  A facility, including a building and adjoining
parking area, the primary function of which is selling food to the public by
order from and service to passengers in vehicles parked outside of the
structure. DRIVE-IN RESTAURANTS may also provide seating inside of the
building.
   RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD.  An establishment that offers quick food service,
which is accomplished through a limited menu of items already prepared and held
for service or prepared quickly. Orders are generally not taken at the
customer’s table, and food is generally served in disposable wrapping or
containers. Establishment may include a drive-through service facility.
   RETAIL USES.  Commercial enterprises that provide goods and/or services
directly to the consumer, where those goods are available for immediate
purchase and removal from the business.
   RETENTION POND.  An area that is designed to permanently hold specific
quantities of stormwater. Captured water only dissipates via percolation into
the groundwater or by evaporation.
   RETIREMENT FACILITY.  A residential complex containing multifamily dwellings
designed for and occupied by senior citizens (persons 60 years of age or older
or couples where either the husband or wife is 60 years of age or older). The
facilities may include a common gathering and dining facilities, but exclude
nursing care.
   RETREAT CENTER.  A facility used for professional, educational or religious
meetings, conferences or seminars which provides meals, housing and recreation
for participants during the period of the retreat or program.
   REZONING.  An amendment to the official zoning map which has the affecting
of removing property from one zoning district and placing it in a different
zoning district.
   RIDING STABLE.  An establishment that shelters and offers upkeep to horses
for use by patrons and private owners. STABLES generally include grazing
pastures and land designated for horseback riding.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A specific and particularly described strip of land, property
or interest therein devoted to and subject to the lawful public use, typically
as a thoroughfare of passage for pedestrians, vehicles or utilities, as
officially recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE.  The limit of publicly owned land encompassing a public
facility, such as a street or an alley.
   RINGELMANN NUMBER.  The number of the area on the Ringelmann Chart that most
nearly matches the light-obscuring capacity of smoke. The Ringelmann Chart is
published by the United States Bureau of Mines, and it illustrates graduated
shades of gray for use in estimating smoke density. Smoke below the density of
Ringelmann No. 1 shall be considered no smoke, or Ringelmann “0".
   ROAD.  See STREET.
   ROADSIDE SALES STAND.  A temporary structure, not permanently affixed to the
ground, which is used solely for the display or sale of farm products produced
on the premises upon which the ROADSIDE STAND is located. No ROADSIDE STAND
shall be more than 300 square feet in ground area and there shall not be more
than one ROADSIDE STAND on any one premise.
   ROW.  See RIGHT-OF WAY.
   RUNOFF.  The surface water discharge or rate of discharge of a given
watershed after a fall of rain or snow that does not enter the soil but runs
off the surface of the land.
   SALES, INCIDENTAL.  Sales that are related and subordinate to the primary
service or retail activities of a commercial use.
   SALES, TEMPORARY/SEASONAL.  Facilities that are indoor or outdoor and
operate on a temporary basis for the sale of seasonal fruits and vegetables,
fireworks, Christmas trees and/or other holiday, event or season related
products.
   SANITARY LANDFILL.  The designated area where nonhazardous and non-medical
farm, residential, institutional, commercial or industrial waste is buried. See
also REFUSE DUMP.
   SATELLITE DISH/ANTENNA.  An apparatus capable of receiving communications
from a transmitter relay located in a planetary orbit or broadcasted signals
from transmitting towers.
   SCHOOL.  A public or private institution which offers instruction in any of
the branches of learning and study comparable to that taught in the public
schools under the state school laws, including pre-kindergarten, kindergarten,
elementary school and junior and senior high schools, whether public or founded
or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a religious or charitable
organization, but excluding trade, business or commercial schools. See also
TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL.
   SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL.  See TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE.  Non-state supported or sponsored primary, grade, high or
preparatory school or academy.
   SCHOOL, SPECIAL.  Any school which has as its primary purpose the
instruction, care and rehabilitation of atypical or exceptional children or
adults so that the usual statutory educational requirements expressly or
implicitly do not apply.
   SCHOOL (UNIVERSITY or COLLEGE).  See UNIVERSITY.
   SCRAP METAL YARD.  A general industrial use established independent or
ancillary to and connected with another general industrial use, which is
concerned exclusively in new and salvaged metal pipes, wire, beams, angles,
rods, machinery, parts, filings, clippings and all other metal items of every
type, and which acquires those items incidental to its connection with the
other general industrial use or by purchase, consignment or bailment which
stores, grades, processes, melts, cuts, dismantles, compresses, cleans or in
any way prepares the items for reuse by the connected other general industrial
use or for storage, sale or shipment and use in other industries or businesses
including open hearth, electric furnaces and foundry operations; such an
establishment shall not include junk yards, dumps or automobile graveyards.
   SECONDARY APPROVAL.  An approval by the official designated by the Plan
Commission indicating that all conditions of primary approval have been met.
   SECONDARY PLAT.  See PLAT, SECONDARY.
   SECTION.  A unit of a manufactured home.
   SEDIMENTATION.  The process by which mineral or organic matter is
accumulated or deposited by moving wind, water or gravity. Once this matter is
deposited (or remains suspended in water), it is usually referred to as
sediment.
   SEED SALES, DISTRIBUTION AND STORAGE.  An establishment that sells, stores
and distributes agricultural seed for farm planting. The establishments
primarily sell in bulk for commercial farm purposes.
   SEMI-TRACTOR/TRAILER STORAGE.  The storage of any vehicle without motive
power designed to be coupled with or drawn by a motor vehicle and constructed
so that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried
by another vehicle.
   SENIOR HOUSING.  See RETIREMENT FACILITY.
   SETBACK.  The horizontal distance between a structure and a lot line or
right-of-way line measured at a distance that is perpendicular to the lot line
or right-of-way line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2153.jpg]
 
   SETBACK, FRONT.  The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building to the front lot line, extending to the side lines of the lot, and
measured as the shortest distance from that foundation to the front lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2155.jpg]
 
   SETBACK, REAR.  The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building to a rear lot line and that rear lot line, extending to the side lines
of the lot, and measured as the shortest distance from the foundation to the
rear lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2157.jpg]
 
   SETBACK, SIDE.  The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building to the side lot line, measured as the shortest distance between that
foundation and the side lot line at a 90-degree angle to the side lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2159.jpg]
 
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.  Any facility designed for the treatment of sewage
that serves an entire community, region or specific geographic area.
   SHOE REPAIR SHOP.  An establishment that primarily repairs shoes, with
incidental sales of shoe-related items.
   SHOOTING RANGE (INDOOR).  Any establishment at which firearms are discharged
for the purpose of recreation and entertainment, and at which all shooting
areas and targets are completely enclosed in a structure.
   SHOOTING RANGE (OUTDOOR).  Any establishment at which firearms are
discharged for the purpose of recreation and entertainment, and at which any
portion of the shooting areas or targets are located outside of a completely
enclosed structure.
   SHOPPING CENTER.  An architectural and functional grouping of retail stores
and appropriate associated and accessory uses, generally oriented around a
supermarket or department store, and designed to serve residential
neighborhoods or communities. For the purpose of this ordinance, any
development consisting of two or more professional office uses, personal
service uses, retail service uses, or any combination thereof, shall be
considered a SHOPPING CENTER.
   SHOPPING MALL.  A shopping center where numerous stores front on a
pedestrian way that may be enclosed or open.
   SHRUB, ORNAMENTAL.  A shrub planted primarily for its ornamental and
screening value, not to be confused with a perennial.
   SIDE LOT LINE.  See LOT LINE, SIDE.
   SIDE SETBACK.  See SETBACK, SIDE.
   SIGHT DISTANCE.  The measurement from a driver’s eyes, which are assumed to
be three and three-fourths feet above the pavement surface, to an object six-
inches high on the pavement.
   SIGHT VISIBILITY TRIANGLE.  Triangular shaped areas on each corner of an
intersection that are looked through by drivers approaching or departing an
intersection to view oncoming traffic on crossing streets and roadways.
   SIGN.  Any name, identification, description, device, display or
illustration which is affixed to, painted or represented directly or indirectly
upon a building, structure or piece of land which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business. A SIGN includes the face area which conveys a message, any equipment
or sign device, and any related mechanical, electrical and structural supports
and features, such as poles and lighting. In no instance shall this ordinance
be interpreted as considering any flag as a SIGN.
   SIGN, ABANDONED.  A sign that is no longer located on or conducted on the
property where the sign is displayed.
   SIGN, ANIMATED.  A sign with action, motion or changing colors or lights,
any of which is imitates movement. A flashing sign shall be considered to be an
ANIMATED SIGN.
   SIGN, AREA.  The entire face of a sign including the message surface and any
framing or trim, but excluding any poles or other supports. SIGN AREA is
measured as the maximum vertical dimension of the face area multiplied by the
maximum horizontal dimension of the face area, each at its largest point.
   SIGN, AWNING.  A sign incorporated into or attached to an awning.
   SIGN, BANNER.  A sign with or without characters, letters, illustrations or
ornamentations applied to cloth, paper, flexible plastic or fabric of any kind
with only the material for backing and secured or mounted to allow motion
caused by the atmosphere.
   SIGN, BANNER (FIXED).  A banner that is supported along one or more sides or
at two or more corners by staples, tape, wires, ropes, strings or other
materials that are not fixed or rigid.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD.  See SIGN, OFF-PREMISE.
   SIGN, CANOPY.  Any sign that is a part of or attached to an awning, canopy
or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a CANOPY.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY.  A sign designed and used to display temporary
letters, numbers, symbols and other items which may be changed by hand,
electronically or by other means. The height, face area and other structural
and lighting characteristics of CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS remain constant,
providing a background for temporary messages. A sign on which the message
changes more than eight times per day shall be considered an animated sign and
not a CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN for the purposes of this ordinance.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL.  Any on-premises sign that includes information assisting
in the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, such as “enter,” “exit” and
“one-way.”
   SIGN, DOUBLE-FACED.  A sign designed and/or used to display a message on the
outer surface of two identical and opposite parallel planes.
   SIGN, ENTRY FEATURE.  A permanent on-premise sign identifying an entrance to
a residential subdivision, apartment complex or manufactured home park.
   SIGN, FACE.  The area or display surface used for the message.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING.  A sign supported completely by a frame, pole or
foundation and which is independent from all other structures on the property.
   SIGN, GROUND.  See SIGN, MONUMENT.
   SIGN, HEIGHT.  The highest point measured from grade level at the base of
the sign to the highest point of the sign, including any structure, frame,
light fixture or other element of the sign.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED.  A sign lighted by or exposed to artificial lighting
either by lights on or within the sign or directed toward the sign.
   SIGN, INCIDENTAL.  A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the zone lot on which it is located, such as “no
parking,” “entrance,” “loading only,” “telephone” and other similar directives.
No sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the zone lot on
which the sign is located shall be considered INCIDENTAL.
   SIGN, MONUMENT.  A sign that is permanently affixed to the ground at its
base, supported entirely by a base structure and not mounted on a pole. This
sign could be displayed on a decorative feature of brick, wood or other
material, which is intended to serve as an entry feature or focal point.
   SIGN, MURAL.  A sign painted onto the side of a building, wall, ground or
structure.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISE.  A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, organization or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere
than upon the premises where the sign is located or to which it is affixed.
This includes billboard and other outdoor advertising and directional signs
located on private property.
   SIGN, PENNANT.  Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether
or not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
   SIGN, POLITICAL.  See SIGN, YARD CARD.
   SIGN, PORTABLE.  Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels, signs
converted to A or T-frames, menu or sandwich board signs, balloons used as
signs, umbrellas used for advertising, and signs attached to or painted on
vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless the vehicle is
used in the normal day-today operations of the business.
   SIGN, POST.  A sign supported by one or two posts, often made of wood or
similar material. The sign display may be attached between two posts or
suspended from an above support.
   SIGN, POSTER.  Any sign made of cardboard, metal, plastic or other semi-
rigid material which is attached to outdoor products, structures or other
features, or anchored into the ground with the use of stakes.
   SIGN, PROJECTING.  A sign attached to and projecting out from a building
face or wall, generally at right angles to the building.
   SIGN, PYLON.  A freestanding sign, other than a pole or ground mounted sign,
which is secured permanently to the ground, and has a height that is greater
than its width.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE.  A temporary sign that relates to the sale, lease or
rental of property or structures, or to construction activity on a site. See
also SIGN, YARD CARD.
   SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD.  A temporary sign located at grade level, not
permanently attached to a building, structure or the ground, and constructed in
a manner as to form an “A” by separating to opposite and parallel sign faces by
supporting structural members.
   SIGN, SEARCHLIGHT.  A searchlight used to attract attention to a property,
use, or structure consistent with the definition of a sign.
   SIGN STRUCTURE.  The supports, uprights, bracing and frame work for the
sign. In the case of a sign structure consisting of two or more sides, where
the angle formed between any of the sides (or the projection thereof) exceeds
15 degrees, each side shall be considered a separate sign structure.
   SIGN SURFACE.  See SIGN FACE.
   SIGN, SUSPENDED.  A sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is supported by the surface.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY.  An on-premise sign not fixed to a permanent foundation and
displayed for a fixed period of time, for the purpose of conveying information,
knowledge or ideas to the public about a subject related to the activities on
the premises upon which it is located.
   SIGN, VEHICLE.  A sign that is attached to or painted on a parked vehicle
for the purpose of drawing attention to the product, business or property which
is indicated on the sign. See also SIGN, PORTABLE.
   SIGN, WALL.  Any sign attached parallel to, but within 12 inches of, a wall,
painted on the wall surface or erected and confined within the limits of an
outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by the wall or
building, and which displays only one sign surface.
   SIGN, WAYFINDING.  Any sign erected by a governmental entity to aid visitors
in navigating within the city. These signs may include directional indicators
to guide visitors to special areas (including downtown and the industrial
park), specific locations (including libraries, governmental centers and
entertainment venues), or to major thoroughfares (including SR 32, SR 39 and I-
65). These signs may be freestanding, but are recommended to follow a uniform
style of design and have varying scales dependent on district or environment
density.
   SIGN, WINDOW.  Any sign, pictures, symbol, or combination thereof, designed
to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale
or service, and is affixed to a window or placed immediately behind a window
pane so as to attract the attention of persons outside of the structure.
   SIGN, YARD CARD.  A temporary sign displayed on private property and usually
displaying a message associated with political support, local sports team or
club support or garage/yard sales.
   SIGNABLE AREA.  A two-dimensional area that describes the largest square,
rectangle or parallelogram on the facade of a building which is free of
architectural details.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.  The plan indicating the location of existing and
proposed buildings, structures, paved areas, walkways, vegetative cover,
landscaping and screening within a site proposed for development which is to be
submitted for approval prior to the release of improvement location permits on
the site consistent with the requirements of the I.C. 367-4-1400 series.
   SITE IMPROVEMENT.  See IMPROVEMENT.
   SKATING RINK.  An establishment that provides facilities for patron skating.
   SLOPE.  The face of an embankment or cut section. Any ground whose surface
makes an angle with the plane of the horizon. SLOPES are usually expressed in a
percentage based upon vertical difference in feet per 100 feet of horizontal
distance.
   SLOW BURNING or INCOMBUSTIBLE.  See BURNING, SLOW.
   SMOKE.  A suspension of fine particles, excluding water droplets, in a
gaseous plume, which more or less obscures the transmission of light.
   SMOKE UNIT.  The number obtained when the smoke density in Ringelmann number
is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
calculation, a Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least once a minute
during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the time
in minutes during which it is observed. The various products are then added
together to give the total number of smoke units observed during the entire
observation period.
   SOIL STABILIZATION.  Chemical or structural treatment of a mass of soil to
increase or maintain its stability or otherwise improve its engineering
properties.
   SORORITY, EDUCATIONAL.  A club or social activity officially associated with
and recognized and supervised by an institution for higher education whose
membership is limited exclusively to students of the institution.
   SORORITY, SOCIAL.  A private club of individuals organized around a civic,
social or intellectual goal or pursuit. See also PRIVATE CLUB.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).  Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the city that are subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of
the city are identified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) of the county
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   SPORTING GOODS SHOP.  An establishment that primarily sells sporting
equipment, sporting apparel and related items.
   SPOT ZONING.  The zoning of a typically small area of land controlled by a
single or limited number of property owners that results in the property
involved being granted permitted uses and/or development standards that are
inconsistent with those provided to, or planned for, similar surrounding
properties.
   SPOTLIGHT.  A fixture designed to direct a narrow intense beam of light on a
desired area.
   STADIUM or COLISEUM.  A large open or enclosed space that is used for games
or major events, especially sporting events, and is partly or completely
surrounded by tiers of seats for spectators.
   STATE.  The State of Indiana.
   STATIONARY SHOP.  An establishment that primarily sells stationary, paper,
cards, writing utensils and various related items.
   STOP-WORK ORDER.  A written document issued by an enforcement official which
requires the cessation of an activity.
   STORAGE, OUTDOOR.  See OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   STORY.  The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling above it. For the purpose of
this ordinance, a basement shall not be considered a STORY unless it has been
subdivided into rooms and used for tenant purpose.
   STORY, HALF.  The portion of a building under a sloping, gable, hip or
gambrel roof, the wall plates on at least two opposite exterior walls of which
are not more than three feet above the floor level of the half-story.
   STREAM BANK.  The usual boundaries, not the flood boundaries, of a stream
channel.
   STREET.  A right-of-way or thoroughfare, other than an alley, dedicated or
otherwise legally established to the public use, usually affording the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STREET, ARTERIAL.  A street which serves the major traffic movements within
a community, such as between the Central Business District and the outlying
commercial and residential areas, as well as a majority of the vehicular
traffic entering and leaving the city to travel to and from adjacent
communities. City ARTERIAL STREETS are identified in the thoroughfare plan.
   STREET, COLLECTOR.  A street designed and used to carry moderate volumes of
traffic from local streets to arterial streets. City COLLECTOR STREETS are
identified in the thoroughfare plan.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC (COURT OR DEAD END STREET).  A street with a single
common ingress and egress and with a turn-around at the end.
   STREET FRONTAGE.  See FRONTAGE, STREET.
   STREET, HALF.  A street for which only half of the required right-of-way
and/or pavement width has been provided.
   STREET (OR ALLEY) IMPROVEMENT.  The construction of a street or alley to its
full thickness, commencing at the subgrade according to the specifications
contained in this ordinance. The placing of a new surface over an existing
paved or closed surface street or alley shall not be considered as an
improvement but as maintenance.
   STREET INTERSECTING.  Any street that joins another street at an angle,
whether or not it crosses the other street.
   STREET INTERSECTION.  The point of crossing or meeting of two or more
streets.
   STREET, LOCAL.  A street designated primarily to provide access to other
streets from individual properties. City LOCAL STREETS are identified on the
thoroughfare plan.
   STREET, NONRESIDENTIAL.  Any street where the principal land use of the lots
which the street provides access to, as well as the lots on either side of the
street is not residential.
   STREET ORIENTATION.  The direction of the architectural front facade of a
building in relation to the street.
   STREET, PRIVATE.  Vehicular streets and driveways, paved or unpaved, which
are wholly within private property except where they intersect with public
streets within public rights-of-way, and is privately owned and maintained and
used to provide vehicular access to more than one property or dwelling unit.
   STREET, PUBLIC.  A street constructed and maintained by a unit of government
within an officially deeded and accepted public right-of-way.
   STREET, RESIDENTIAL.  Any street where the principal land use of the lots
which the street provides access to, as well as the lots on either side of the
street is residential.
   STREET VISTA.  A view framed by buildings at the termination of the axis of
a thoroughfare.
   STREET WIDTH.  The width of the paved surface of a street, measured from
back-of-curb to back-of-curb or from edge-of-pavement to edge-of-pavement where
curbs are not present.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS.  Any change in the supporting members of a building
or structure such as bearing walls, partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any substantial change in the exterior walls, roof or footprint or increasing
size of living space. Also, substantial roofing and siding work when repairs
are made to the structure beneath.
   STRUCTURE.  Any building or other object that is constructed or erected that
requires location on or under the ground or is attached to something on the
ground.
   STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY.  A structure that is subordinate to a principal
structure in area, intent and/or purpose; contributes to the comfort,
convenience or necessity of occupants of the principal structure; does not
alter or change the character of the property; and is located on the same lot
as the principal structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/82f12c1bfd2b8657c3624ceeda194c1669ad3fba/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2161.jpg]
 
   STRUCTURE HEIGHT.  The vertical distance measured from ground level to the
highest point of the roof.
   STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL.  The building or structure in which the principal use
of the lot or premises is located or conducted. With respect to residential
uses, the PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE shall be the main dwelling. For
agricultural uses, the PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE may be a barn or other agricultural
structure.
   SUBDIVIDER.  Any person or persons, firm or corporation engaged in
developing or improving a tract of land which complies with the definition of a
subdivision as defined in this ordinance. See also DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION.  The division of any lot, tract or parcel of land, separately
described in a deed on record in the office of the County Recorder, into two or
more contiguous parcels, sites or lots fronting on public street, for the
purpose of immediate or future offer, sale, lease or development.
   SUBDIVISIONS, ADMINISTRATIVE.  Includes one or more of the following:
      (1)   A resubdivision which involves only the removal of interior lot
lines, with the outside perimeter of the property remaining unchanged,
resulting in fewer parcels than were contained in the original parcel;
      (2)   A resubdivision which involves only the removal or relocation of
easements on the property;
      (3) A resubdivision which involves only the changing of notations written
on the plat or correction of errors thereon;
      (4) A division of land pursuant to an allocation of land by court decree;
      (5)   The division of land into cemetery plots;
      (6)   A resubdivision to correct errors in an existing legal description,
provided that no additional building lots are created;
      (7)   A division of land involving no more than two parcels for the sale
or exchange of tracts between adjoining land owners, provided that no
additional building sites are created;
      (8)   A division of a building site containing an existing dwelling which
has been located on an agriculturally used site for at least ten years; and
      (9)   A division or resubdivision of land for the acquisition by the
public or by a utility for street right-of-way or easement.
   SUBDIVISION, CLUSTER.  See CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT.  A document which establishes the
contractual relationship between the developer of a subdivision and the city
for the installation of improvements in accordance with the standards and
specifications set forth in this ordinance.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR.  All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions
and resulting in the creation of more than four lots, including but not limited
to subdivisions requiring any new street or extension of city facilities or the
creation of any public improvements.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR.  A subdivision of land which results in the creation of
four or fewer new lots or the reconfiguration of existing lots and which does
not involve the construction or extension of public or private streets or
utilities.
   SUB-LOTS.  Portions of a lot of record created in connection with the
transfer of ownership of individual dwelling units in a two-family or
multifamily dwelling.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  See IMPROVEMENT, SUBSTANTIAL.
   SUPERMARKET.  Large-scale retailers of food and grocery supplies, typically
also including flower shops, pharmacies, bakeries, branch banks and other
complementary and incidental uses.
   SUPPLY YARDS.  A commercial establishment storing or offering for sale
building supplies, steel supplies, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain and
similar goods. SUPPLY YARDS do not include the wrecking, salvaging, dismantling
or storage of automobiles and similar vehicles.
   SURETY.  An amount of money or other negotiable instrument provided by a
developer to the city which guarantees that they will perform all actions
required by the city regarding an approved site development plan, plat or other
improvement, which provides that if the developer fails to comply with the
requirements of approval, funds will be provided for the city to complete those
requirements.
   SURFACE DRAINAGE.  See DRAINAGE, SURFACE.
   SWALE.  See DRAINAGE SWALE.
   SWIMMING POOL.  Any structure located either at, above or below grade which
is designed and/or used to hold water which exceeds two feet in depth at any
point for the purpose of recreation and entertainment of adults and children.
   SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE.  A swimming pool used only by the owner of the pool
and the owner’s invited guests, and which is an accessory use at a private
residence or private commercial operation.
   TAILOR SHOP.  An establishment that alters and repairs clothing for patrons.
   TANNING SALON.  Any business which provides a service using artificial
lighting systems to produce a tan on a person’s body, including the incidental
sale of tanning products.
   TAVERN.  See BAR.
   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMMITTEE (TAC).  A committee established by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator to assist with the technical evaluation of
subdivisions by reviewing sketch plats, and to make appropriate technical
recommendations to the subdivider, Plan Commission, Plat Committee or city
departments.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS.  The transmission of information between or among
geographic points without change in the form or content of the information as
sent or received. See also COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE EXCHANGE.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA.  Any structure or device, including all
appurtenances, used for the purpose of collecting or radiating electromagnetic
waves, including those used to transmit cellular telephone service, data, radio
and television signals and any other information.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER.  A mast, pole, monopole, guyed or freestanding
framework, or other vertical structure that acts as an antenna or to which an
antenna is affixed or attached.
   TEMPORARY SEASONAL SALES.  See SALES, TEMPORARY/SEASONAL.
   TEMPORARY USE.  See USE, TEMPORARY.
   THEATER.  A facility for audio and visual productions and performing arts,
excluding adult motion picture theaters and adult entertainment businesses.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN.  The official plan, now and hereafter adopted, which sets
forth the location, identification, alignment, dimensions and classification of
existing and proposed streets and other thoroughfares.
   THROUGH LOT.  See LOT, THROUGH.
   TOOL AND DYE SHOP.  An establishment that processes, cuts and molds metal
into tools, molds, machine components and similar products.
   TOP-OF-BANK.  The ordinary high water level for a water basin or wetland,
and the break in slope for a watercourse.
   TOP SOIL.  Surface soils and subsurface soils which presumably are fertile
soils and soil material, ordinarily rich in organic matter or humus debris. TOP
SOIL is usually found in the uppermost soil layer called the A HORIZON.
   TOPOGRAPHY.  The configuration of the earth’s surface, including the
relative relief, elevations and position of land features.
   TOWER.  A ground pole, spire, structure or combination thereof including
supporting lines, cables, wires, braces and masts intended primarily for the
purpose of mounting an antenna, a meteorological device or other similar
apparatus above ground.
   TOWNHOUSE.  A single-family dwelling with a private entrance that is
attached horizontally to other dwelling units in a linear arrangement, with a
front and a rear wall that are totally exposed for light, access and
ventilation.
   TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL.  A school conducted as a commercial enterprise
that provides on-site training for business or secretarial skills, instrumental
music, dancing, barbering or hair dressing, drafting and the like; or for
industrial or technical arts. Includes vocational schools and career centers.
   TRAFFIC CALMING.  Methods of reducing the negative impact of vehicles on
surrounding land uses and other methods of personal transportation through
street design that decreases the speed of vehicles and provides increased space
and comfort for pedestrians.
   TRAIL.  A public way, separate from a street, alley or other vehicle
roadway, designed for and used by pedestrians, cyclists and others using non-
motorized transportation and recreation equipment. See also PATHWAY.
   TREE, BROADLEAF.  Trees having non-needle like leaves.
   TREE, DECIDUOUS.  Trees and shrubs that shed their leaves annually.
   TREE, EVERGREEN.  Trees and shrubs that do not shed their leaves annually.
   TREE, ORNAMENTAL.  A deciduous tree possessing qualities such as flowers or
fruit, attractive foliage, bark or shape, with a mature height generally under
40 feet.
   TREE, PROHIBITED.  A tree, as listed in this ordinance, that does not meet
site-landscaping or performance standard requirements.
   TREE, SHADE.  A deciduous tree planted primarily for its high crown of
foliage or overhead canopy.
   TRUCK FREIGHT TERMINAL.  An area and building where trucks and cargo are
stored, where loading and unloading is carried on regularly and where minor
truck maintenance is performed.
   TRUCK SALES AND SERVICE.  Any establishment that sales and services semis,
grain trucks and other vehicles similar in size. Inoperable trucks may be
stored on a temporary basis and only if they are to be serviced.
   TRUCK STOP.  A facility designed and used to provide services to the
trucking industry including, but not limited to, fuel stations, repair shops,
truck washes, restaurants, convenience stores, weight scales and shower
facilities, all as part of a unified facility.
   UNDEVELOPED LAND.  Land in its natural state.
   UNIVERSITY (or COLLEGE).  An institution for post-secondary education,
public or private, offering courses in general, technical or religious
education and operated not-for-profit. It operates in buildings owned or leased
by the institution for administrative and faculty offices, student and faculty
housing, classrooms, laboratories, chapels, auditoriums, lecture halls,
libraries, student and faculty centers, community rooms and facilities,
athletic facilities, fraternities and sororities. A UNIVERSITY may include for-
profit businesses and facilities that are incidental to the educational,
cultural and athletic functions and which lease space from the institution. A
UNIVERSITY shall not include trade schools operated for profit.
   USE.  The purpose of which land, building or structure thereon is designed,
arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied, maintained, let or leased.
   USE, ACCESSORY.  A use which is secondary to a principal use in area, intent
and/or purpose; contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of
occupants of the principal use; does not alter or change the character of the
property; and is located on the same lot as the principal use.
   USE CATEGORY.  A group of similar use types that are associated with each
other to an extent that they are grouped together for the purpose of
identifying land uses by this ordinance, such as retail uses, office uses,
personal service uses and general industrial production.
   USE, CHANGE OF.  The discontinuation of the specific principal use of a lot
or structure and the replacement of that use with a different specific use.
   USE, CONDITIONAL.  See CONDITIONAL USE.
   USE, EXISTING.  The use of a lot or structure present at the effective date
of this ordinance.
   USE, ILLEGAL.  Any use that is neither legal nonconforming or permitted by
right or conditional use in the zoning district in which it is located as
defined by this ordinance.
   USE, NONCONFORMING.  See NONCONFORMING USE.
   USE, PERMITTED.  Any use listed as a permitted use in this ordinance or
which is an accessory or temporary use associated with a permitted use for the
zoning district in which it is located.
   USE, PRINCIPAL.  The main use of land or structures, as distinguished from
an accessory use. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either a permitted use or a
conditional use.
   USE, TEMPORARY.  A land use or structure established for a limited and fixed
period of time with the intent to discontinue the use upon the expiration of
the time period.
   USE VARIANCE.  The approval of a use by the Board of Zoning Appeals which is
not listed as a permitted or conditional use by this ordinance and is not an
accessory or temporary use associated with any principal use permitted by this
ordinance.
   UTILITY SUBSTATION.  A building or structure used for the distribution or
transmission of utilities such as water, gas, electricity or sewer.
   VACATION.  The termination of interest in a plat, an easement or a right-of-
way or other public dedication.
   VARIANCE, DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.  A specific approval granted by a Board of
Zoning Appeals in the manner prescribed by this ordinance, to deviate from the
development standards (such as height, bulk, area) that the ordinance otherwise
prescribes for the purpose of assuring that no property, because of special
circumstances applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly
enjoyed by other properties in the same vicinity and district.
   VARIANCE, USE.  See USE, VARIANCE.
   VARIETY STORE.  A retail establishment that sells a multitude of consumer
goods.
   VEHICLE.  A device used as a mode of transportation of persons and/or goods
including but not limited to automobiles, semi-tractors, semi-tractor trailers,
all types of trailers, snowmobiles, recreational vehicles, motorcycles and
similar devices.
   VEHICLE DETAILING/ACCESSORY SHOP.  An establishment that provides auto-
detailing services and/or sells associated merchandise. Services offered are
cosmetic in nature and do not include mechanical upgrades or repairs.
   VEHICLE, INOPERABLE.  See INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.
   VEHICLE SALES, NEW.  The storage and display for sale of motor vehicles
where repair work, body work and parts sales is incidental to the operation of
the new or used vehicle sales. At least 80% of the vehicle inventory must be
new.
   VEHICLE SALES, USED.  The storage and display for sale of more than two
motor vehicles where repair work, body work and parts sales is incidental to
the operation of the new or used vehicle sales.
   VENDING MACHINES.  Machines that, for a fee, distribute drinks, newspapers
and other items. The machines are owned by a person other than the property or
business owner.
   VESTED RIGHT.  A right that has become fixed and cannot be revoked by
subsequent changes of applicable regulations.
   VETERINARY OFFICE (ANIMAL CLINIC).  An establishment for the care,
observation or treatment of domestic animals.
   VIBRATION.  Oscillatory motion transmitted through the ground.
   VIDEO STORE.  An establishment primarily engaged in the retail rental of
DVD, videotapes, films, CD-ROMS, laser discs, video games or other electronic
media.
   VITICULTURE (VINEYARD).  The cultivation of grapevines and the growing of
grapes.
   WAIVER.  A specific modification or lessening of the regulations established
by this ordinance that may be granted by the Plan Commission for a specific
development in response to unique site characteristics or development patterns
that justify relief from the otherwise generally applicable regulations.
   WAREHOUSE/DISTRIBUTION FACILITY. A facility for the storage, wholesale and
distribution of manufactured products, supplies and equipment.
   WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY.  Any facility that functions to store or dispose of
waste including incinerators, junk metal yard, sanitary landfills, refuse
dumps, and inoperable vehicle storage.
   WASTE INCINERATOR.  See INCINERATOR.
   WATER TOWER.  A tower or standpipe that functions as a reservoir providing
water to the community.
   WATERCOURSE.  Any natural or man-made channel through which water flows on a
continual or temporary basis.
   WELLFIELD (PUBLIC PUMPHOUSE).  An area of land that contains one or more
existing or proposed wells for supplying water to a water utility.
   WETLAND.  Areas that are inundated and saturated by surface or groundwater
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions as identified by the National Wetlands
Institute and certified by an individual with a United States Army Corps of
Engineers Regulation 4 Jurisdictional Wetland Certification.
   WHOLESALE FACILITY.  An establishment or place of business primarily engaged
in selling and/or distributing merchandise to retailers, to industrial,
commercial, institutional, or professional business users, or to other
wholesalers.
   WINERY.  A facility in which wine products are grown and processed for
commercial sales. The development may include other uses such as a retail shop,
standard restaurant, bar or live entertainment.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY.  A land use facility supporting antennas
and microwave dishes that sends and/or receives telecommunication and radio
frequencies signals. Communications facilities include structures or towers,
and accessory buildings.
   YARD.  A space on a lot that is open, unoccupied and unobstructed other than
by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts and similar structures.
   YARD SALE.  See GARAGE/YARD SALE.
   YARD, SIDE (SEPARATION).  The sum of the distance of the horizontal space
between a foundation and side lot line, plus the horizontal space between the
foundation and shared side lot line of the structure on the immediately
adjacent lot.
   ZONING DISTRICT.  A section of the territory within the Jurisdiction of the
Lebanon City Plan Commission for which uniform regulations governing the use,
height, area, size, and intensity of use of buildings and land, and open spaces
about buildings, are herein established.
   ZONING MAP.  See OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
(Ord. 07-16, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-23-2008; Ord. 2009-04,
passed 4-13-2009; Ord. 2015-14, passed 11-10-2015; Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-12-
2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   CONDEMNATIONS
      
III.   CONVEYANCES OF REAL PROPERTY
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
VI.   LEASES
      
VII.   NAMING OF STREETS
      
VIII.   VACATIONS
      
IX.   ZONING
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
95-6  - -    Annexing Lenox and Riley property.
98-7  - -    Annexation of 2875 North State Road 39.
98-10 - -    Annexing 9.2201 acres of property.
99-5  - -    Annexing property petitioned by Texon Distributing L.P.
99-6  - -    Annexing property petitioned by Indiana Gas Company, Inc.
99-7  - -    Annexing property located at 1801 Indianapolis Avenue, petitioned by State
             Bank of Lizton.
99-10 - -    Annexing property petitioned by residents owning real estate on South Allen
             Drive off Indianapolis Avenue.
00-7  - -    Annexing property located on Anderson Lane.
01-09 - -    Annexing property located on Anderson Lane, formerly known as County Road
             250 North.
             Annexing eight tracts of land owned by Duke Realty Limited Partnership
03-04 - -    (owner of Tracts 1 through 7) and Kenneth W. and Nancy S. Wethington (owner
             of Tract 8).
2003-        Annexing property located south of County Road 250 North, owned by Crossman
05    - -    Communities, Inc., option purchaser; Margaret Smith, Annabelle Harris, co-
             owners; and Evelyn Akers and Susan Crane, co-personal representatives.
2008- - -    Annexing property, containing 3,670 acres.
05
1987- 11-9-  Annexing a part of the southeast quarter of Section 35 and a part of the
11    1987   southwest quarter of Section 36, both being Township 19 North, Range 1 West
             and situated in Center Township.
87-12 11-9-  Annexing land owned by Regency Associates and Keith and Carla Nanettte
      1987   Yerkes.
87-13 11-9-  Annexing land owned by Athur O. and Theda J. Dickerson.
      1987
1988- 6-28-  Annexing the following:
6     1988
             1.  60 acres across the entire west side of the east half of the southwest
           quarter of Section 35, Township 19 North, Range 1 West of the second
             principal meridian;
             2.  20 acres across the entire east side of the west half of the southwest
           quarter of Section 35, Township 19 North, Range 1 West of the second
             principal meridian; and
             3.  A part of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 2,
           Township 18 North, Range 1 West of second principal meridian, containing
             7.95 acres more or less.
88-9  7-11-  Annexing land owned by Trinity Evangelical Lutheran Church.
      1988
88-14 9-12-  Annexing land owned by Lenox Real Estate in the Edgewood Subdivision.
      1988
89-5  6-12-  Annexing land owned by Lebanon Partnership IV, being 2.73 acres.
      1989
93-6  6-14-  Annexing Road America property.
      1993
93-8  6-28-  Annexing Lenox and First Assembly of God tracts.
      1993
93-12 8-23-  Annexing 2485 North Lebanon Street, owned by Alexander and Kimberly
      1993   Gatzimos and Frank Lobraico, containing 3.0 acres, more or less.
Res.  8-23-  Adopting a written fiscal plan establishing a policy for the provision of
93-8  1993   services to 2485 North Lebanon Street, owned by Alexander and Kimberly
             Gatzimos and Frank Lobraico.
93-13 8-23-  Annexing C. Cole Warren property, as recorded in Deed Record 221, pages 36
      1993   and 37, consisting of 4.0170 acres more or less.
Res.  8-23-  Adopting a written fiscal plan establishing a policy for the provision of
93-9  1993   services to C. Cole Warren property, as recorded in Deed Record 221, pages
             36 and 37.
93-16 11-8-  Annexing 2480 North Lebanon Street, owned by Carter Lumber Company, William
      1993   Earl and Helen Smith, containing 10.08 acres, more or less.
94-8  7-11-  Annexing land owned by Dennis S. and Fern R. Finch, being a part of the
      1994   northeast quarter of Section 24, Township 19 North, Range 1 West,
95-2  2-27-  Annexing land owned by Max Cowan and Warren Huntzinger.
      1995
95-10 7-24-  Annexing land owned by Dale V. Zinn, Robert C. Truitt and Lebanon
      1995   Enterprises, Inc., containing 25.59 acres more or less.
96-12 7-8-   Annexing Grindley, Trisler, Lenox Couchman properties.
      1996
      7-12-  Annexing property owned by the Akers Family Partnership, Lebanon Christian
04-02 2004   Church Corporation, City of Lebanon, Lighthouse Baptist Church, Inc. and
             David P. and Cheryl L. Dulin.
04-08 9-13-  Annexing Hinkle property located at 2650 Elm Swamp Road, consisting of 1.38
      2004   acres, more or less.
04-12 12-27- Annexation of real property to the city.
      2004
05-02 2-28-  Annexing the northwest corner of the intersection of State Road 39 North
      2005   and County Road 250 North.
05-03 5-23-  Annexing Foster/Nesbitt land located at 2530 North State Road 39,
      2005   containing 0.64 acres, more or less.
      5-23-  Annexing Lebanon Schools/ Cunningham land located along the west side of
05-04 2005   John Bart Road and the south side of Elizaville Road, containing 32.6497
             acres.
05-05 8-22-  Annexing Duke Realty Limited Partnership/Riley land, containing 69.783
      2005   acres located along the west side of Lebanon Business Park.
06-01 3-27-  Annexing property on Indianapolis Avenue.
      2006
07-01 1-22-  Annexing ten tracts of land located south of I-65 and east of State Road
      2007   39.
      4-23-  Annexing land located at 430 West 250 North and 2570 North State Road 39;
07-04 2007   2620 North State Road 39; 2620 North State Road 39; 2680 North State Road
             39; 2700 North State Road 39; and 2710 North State Road 39.
07-05 5-14-  Annexing Summers, Neese and Scheich property, containing 34.011 acres.
      2007
07-09 7-23-  Annexing 1125 John Bart Road.
      2007
08-08 8-25-  Annexing Duke Realty Limited Partnership property near the southwest corner
      2008   of the Lebanon Business Park, containing 162.684 acres.
2013- 2-25-  Annexing approximately 64.5 acres.
01    2013
Res.  3-25-
2013- 2013   Annexing certain territory to the city.
07
2014- 6-9-   Annexing property located as 2209 Elizaville Road.
08    2014
2014- 9-8-   Annexing property located at 1285 West State Road 32.
12    2014
2015- 12-14- Annexing approximately 85 acres.
19    2015
2017- 9-11-  Annexing property located at the southeast corner of Witt Road and 250 N.
13    2017
2018- 4-9-   Annexing property at the southeast corner of State Road 32 and N. 200 W.
05    2018
2018- 6-15-  Annexing property located at the northwest corner of Enterprise Boulevard
08    2018   and State Road 39.
2018- 11-13- Annexing property located west of Elm Swamp Road on both sides of Elmwood
13    2018   Drive known as Elmwood Subdivision.
2018- 11-26- Annexing property located on both the east and west side of Witt Road
18    2018   approximately one- half mile south of 250 N.
2018- 11-26- Annexing property located on the north side of 300 N. approximately one-
19    2018   third of a mile east of State Road 39.
2018- 11-26- Annexing property located on the north and south side of 300 N. directly
20    2018   east of 25 E.
2018- 11-26- Annexing property located on the east side of N. SR 39 approximately one-
21    2018   tenth of a mile south of 300 N.
2018- 1-14-  Annexing property located at the northeast corner of Witt Road and 250 N.
23    2019
2019- 5-28-  Annexing property located on the north side of 300 N. approximately 1,000
04    2019   feet east of State Road 39.
2020- 2-24-  Annexing property located on the south side of 100 S. and on both the east
02    2020   and west sides of 400 E.
2020- 2-24-  Annexing property located on the north side of 100 S., 2,000 feet east of
03    2020   Indianapolis Avenue.
2020- 8-10-  Annexing property bordered by Edgewood Subdivision to the west, John Bart
07    2020   Road to the east, Fordice Road to the north, and Washington Street to the
             south.
2020- 12-14- Annexing property south of the exiting Lebanon Business Park, adjacent to
15    2020   Ken's Foods, directly west o Middle Jamestown Road.
            
 
TABLE II:  CONDEMNATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
86-8     6-23-1986   Condemning property located at 718 East Walnut Street.
                     Delegating condemnation authority for the Utility Service
2014-11  8-25-2014   Board to obtain permanent utility easements over portions
                     of 1420 and 1470 W. S.R. 32 regarding the Prairie Heights
                     lift station project.
                    
 
TABLE III:  CONVEYANCES OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
85-12        12-9-1985   Conveyance of real property owned by the city to the
                         Lebanon Boys/Girls Clubs of America.
Res. 2013-17 8-26-2013   Authorizing the sale of easements to INDOT for
                         drainage project.
                         Approving the transfer of property located at 316
Res. 2014-18 10-14-2014  North M. Zion Road to the City of Lebanon
                         Redevelopment Authority.
                         Accepting the donation from the Friends of Boone
Res. 2015-17 9-28-2015   County Trails, Inc., for the Farm Heritage Trail and
                         assignment of easement.
Res. 2018-18 5-14-2018   Authorizing the sale of property located at 320 South
                         Meridian Street.
Res. 2020-09 11-9-2020   Conveyance of real property commonly known as 501 East
                         Noble Street to the city.
                        
 
TABLE IV:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise to Galaxy Cable T.V., its successors
92-2     2-24-1992   and assigns to operate and maintain a cable television
                     system in the city for a term of 15 years.
06-04    2-27-2006   Renewal and extension of a cable television franchise to
                     TCI of Indiana, Inc. for ten years.
                    
 
TABLE V:  INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Establishing a special economic development charge for
2005-23      12-5-2005   the county to be collected from the developers of
                         residential, commercial and industrial real estate and
                         setting forth a method of collection.
                         Authorizing an interlocal cooperation agreement
2013-08      6-10-2013   between certain Indiana participants and U.S. Bank,
                         National Association, and CRF Financial Group, Inc.
                         Approving interlocal agreement between the city and
Res. 2018-02 1-22-2018   Town of Whitestown regarding maintenance and use of
                         the fire training tower.
Res. 2019-02 3-25-2019   Approving interlocal agreement between the city and
                         Boone County regarding certain planning jurisdiction.
                        
 
TABLE VI:  LEASES
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Approving a lease of certain road improvements between
94-12        9-12-1994   the City Redevelopment Authority and the City
                         Redevelopment Commission.
                         Approving a lease between the City Redevelopment
10-28        12-13-2010  Authority and the City Redevelopment Commission for
                         certain local public improvements.
                         Approving an amendment to lease with the Lebanon
Res. 2013-13 7-22-2013   Public Building Corporation regarding a new city
                         municipal complex.
                         Approving a lease between the City Redevelopment
2014-09      6-23-2014   Authority and the City Redevelopment Commission for
                         certain local public improvements.
                        
 
TABLE VII:  NAMING OF STREETS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Naming the city street located south of State Road 32 and
94-3     - -         immediately adjacent to the Ag-Chem facility to be known
                     as Enterprise Boulevard.
95-12    - -         Naming the street connecting Birchwood Drive and Thompson
                     Street to be known as Longley Drive.
                     Naming the street located between State Road 39 (North
99-1     - -         Lebanon Street) and Elm Swamp Road to be known as Anderson
                     Lane.
                     Naming the roadway passing between Abner Longley Southside
88-17    10-10-1988  Park at its beginning point at the intersection of
                     Thompson Street and terminating on its opposite extreme at
                     Indianapolis Avenue to be know as Hendricks Drive.
                     Naming the street located in the Lebanon Business Park on
00-07    6-26-2000   the east side of the Pearson Education Building to be
                     known as Pearson Parkway.
01-01    1-22-2001   Naming the city street located north from Camp Street in a
                     northerly direction to be known as Dan Conn Drive.
                     Naming the street located on the north and south sides of
02-04    4-8-2002    West State Road 39 connecting Friends Way on the north and
                     Mt. Zion Road on the south to be known as Garoffolo
                     Boulevard.
 
TABLE VIII:  VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date     Description
No.   Passed
90-11 - -      Vacating an alley which shall become a part of the real estate owned by
               Gary and Gladys Hale.
93-17 - -      Vacating a portion of Ryan Street.
98-5  - -      Vacating a portion of an alley located in the 1300 block of South Meridian
               Street.
84-8  4-23-    Vacating an alley which shall become a part of the real estate owned by
      1984     Prairie Industries, Inc. and Cleo F. and Crystal A. Greene.
84-9  4-23-    Vacating an alley which shall become a part of the real estate owned by
      1984     Prairie Industries, Inc. and Eugene F. and Ruth L. Scamahorn.
84-10 4-23-    Vacating a portion of Chicago Street which shall be part of the real estate
      1984     owned by Prairie Industries, Inc.
84-26 12-10-   Vacating an alley which shall become a part of the real estate owned by the
      1984     city.
      11-24-   Vacating a portion of an alley located in Caldwell’s Addition which shall
86-20 1986     become a part of the real estate owned by the County Farm Bureau
               Cooperative Association, Inc.
89-2  2-27-    Vacating an alley which shall become a part of adjoining real estate.
      1989
89-13 8-28-    Vacating an alley which shall become a part of the east tract real estate
      1989     in the Spencer and McLaughlin’s Addition.
92-7  12-14-   Vacating an alley which shall become a part of the real estate owned by the
      1992     Lebanon Wesleyan Church.
93-15 - -1993  Vacating a portion of Coulson Street.
94-2  3-28-    Vacating an alley which shall become a part of the real estate owned by the
      1994     First Church of the Nazarene.
96-22 1-13-    Vacating an alley located adjacent to Lots No. 4 and 5 in Block 3.
      1997
98-9  11-9-    Vacating a portion of an alley in the 600 block of West South Street.
      1998
99-15 11–22- Vacating an alley which shall become a part of the real estate owned by I.
      1999     Jean Jackson and Hosfield Enterprises, Inc.
99-16 12- -    Vacating a portion of an unplatted public street to the First Church of the
      1999     Nazarene, Tsung W. and Shu C. Ran and James T. and Paulette Riley.
00-2  3-1-2000 Partially vacating a right-of-way of Essex Street.
      6-26-    Vacating an alley which shall become a part of the real estate owned by
00-8  2000     Jerry D. Richardson, Pearl and Doug, Inc. and Brian A. and Lisa A.
               Richards.
      7-23-    Vacating portions of 16.5-foot wide alleys separating Lots No. 1, 4 and 5
01-07 2001     of the Spencer and McLaughlin Addition and Lots No. 2, 3 and part of 6 of
               the Rose Harris and Longley’s Addition.
03-13 8-25-    Vacating a utility easement located at Lot 519 in Chadwick Village, Section
      2003     5.
03-18 10-13-   Vacating an alley located adjacent to Lots No. 5 and part of 6 of Grove’s
      2003     Subdivision.
2004- - -2004  Vacating an alley adjacent to the Lebanon Public Library building.
03
05-13 9-29-    Vacating a section of Mt. Zion road in the Lebanon Business District.
      2005
10-03 2-22-    Vacating a portion of the public street formerly known as D Street.
      2010
10-07 5-24-    Vacating a portion of the alley located parallel and between Pearl Street
      2010     and East South Street.
2016- 4-25-    Vacating Green Street between Lots 4 and 5 of Liberty Addition and portions
02    2016     of 16' public alley within platted Green Street and Lots 5 through 10 in
               Liberty Addition Subdivision.
2016- 11-15-   Vacating public ways within the Nunn and Miller's Subdivision and Israel M.
12    2016     Rodman's Subdivision.
2017- 1-23-    Vacating Industrial Street and the alley north of Lot 113 (both in the
01    2017     Partner Place Subdivision).
2019- 11-12-   Vacating a portion of a platted alley between Lot 52 and Lot 53 in Levi
11    2019     Lane's Subdivision.
              
 
TABLE IX:  ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Rezoning part of the north half of the northwest quarter of Section 6, Township
87-8  - -    18 North, Range 1 East of the second principal meridian from C Residential to I-
             1 Enclosed Industrial.
             Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 31,
88-11 - -    Township 19 North, Range 1 East of the second principal meridian from I-
             1 Enclosed Industrial to GB General Business.
             Rezoning a part of the south half of the southeast quarter of Section 24,
96-1  - -    Township 19 North, Range 1 West of the second principal meridian, containing 12.8
             acres, more or less to C Residential.
99-12 - -    Rezoning a part of the northeast quarter of Section 25, Township 19 North, Range
             1 West, containing 4.6885 acres more or less acres from PB-2 to C Residential.
00-6  - -    Rezoning a 25.48 parcel of unimproved real estate at the petition of the Board of
             Trustees of F.J. Witham Memorial Hospital from AA Residential to PB-2.
             Rezoning property commencing five feet north of the northwest corner of Outlot 31
      9-8-   in Longley’s Addition and running thence east nine rods, eight feet and three
86-13 1986   inches; thence south16 rods and five feet; thence west nine rods, eight feet and
             three inches; thence north 16 rods and five feet to the place of beginning from A
             Residential to B Residential.
             Rezoning a part of the southwest quarter of Section 26, Township 19 North, Range
             1 West, beginning at the northeast corner of Lot No. 65, Prairie Heights, Section
      6-8-   2 as recorded in Plat Book No. 3, page 176, and proceeding thence north 89
87-5  1987   degrees, 38 minutes, 21 seconds west, 160.00 feet; thence north 00 degrees, 21
             minutes, 39 seconds east, 111.17 feet; thence south 89 degrees, 38 minutes, 21
             seconds east, 160.00 feet; thence south 00 degrees, 21 minutes, 39 seconds west,
             111.17 feet to the point of beginning from C Residential to A Residential.
88-5  6-27-  Rezoning from I-1 Enclosed Industrial to GB General Business:
      1988
           1.  Tract 1:  A part of Outlot No. 20 of Rose, Harris and Longely’s Addition,
             containing 0.3151 acres more or less;
             2.  Tract 2:  A part of Outlot No. 20 of Rose, Harris and Longely’s Addition, and
           also Lots No. 4, 5 and 8 and a part of Lot No. 1 in Block No. 30 in Spencer and
             McLaughlin’s Addition, containing 1.2559 acres more or less;
             3.  Tract 3:  Lots No. 1 and 4, Block 31 in Spencer and McLaughlin’s Addition and
           20 feet of uniform width off of and across the entire south side of Lot No. 10
             between Blocks No. 30 and 31 in Spencer and McLaughlin’s Addition; and
             4.  Tract 4:  Lots No. 4, 5 and 8 in Block 31 and all of Block 30 that lies south
           of the Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railroad and in Spencer and
             McLaughlin’s Addition and Outlot 20 in Rose, Harris and Longely’s Addition.
89-15 9-8-   Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 19 North, Range 1
      1989   West, containing 21.33 acres from I-2 Enclosed Industrial to C Residential.
      6-14-  Rezoning a part of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 30,
93-7  1993   Township 19 North, Range 1 East of the second principal meridian, containing
             16.384 acres, more or less, from AA Residential to C Residential.
      11-22- Rezoning a part of the northwest quarter of Section 36, Township 19 North, Range
93-18 1993   1 West, containing 1.4466 acres, more or less from I-1 Enclosed Industrial to GB
             General Business.
             Rezoning a part of the northeast quarter of Section 26 and that part of the
95-3  4-10-  southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 23, all of which being in
      1995   Township 19 North, Range 1 West, containing 56.7616 acres, from S Suburban
             Residential to B Residential.
             Rezoning a part of the northeast quarter of Section 24, Township 19 North, Range
98-8  10- -  1 West and that part of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section
      1998   19, Township 19 North, Range 1 East, containing 25.625 acres from AA Residential
             to C Residential.
99-14 10-25- Rezoning 1111 North Lebanon Street from A Residential to C Residential.
      1999
             Rezoning 1.388 acres, more or less, a parcel of abandoned railroad real estate
00-3  3- -   located along the west side of the 300 block of South Lebanon Street extending
      2000   over South West Street from I-1 Enclosed Industrial and GB General Business to
             PB-1.
      11-13- Rezoning all property consisting of approximately 6.995 acres currently in the
00-18 2000   southeast quarter of Section 30, Township 19 North, Range 1 East from AA
             Residential to C Residential.
2003- 2-24-  Rezoning 30.0 acres at the petition of ProLogis Development Services, Inc. from
06    2003   PB Plannned Business to ID Industrial District.
      6-23-  Rezoning 2.8612 acres at the petition of Tom J. Presutti with the consent of the
03-09 2003   record owner, the Board of Trustees of F.J. Witham Memorial Hospital from MF
             Multifamily Residential to PB Planned Business.
03-16 9-8-   Rezoning Chadwick Village real estate from SF-2 to SF-1.
      2003
04-11 11-22- Rezoning 208 North Richardson Street from MF-1 Multifamily Residential to SU-
      2004   2 Special Use - School.
05-11 9-6-   Rezoning Lot No. 2 in Thompson’s Subdivision of Bryan’s Addition from PB Planned
      2005   Business to SF-3.
      3-26-  Rezoning 20.316 acres of land located immediately to the west of the Wal- Mart
07-03 2007   shopping center in the 2400 block of North Lebanon Street from MF-1 Multifamily
             Residential to PB Planned Business.
             Rezoning a part of the lands as described in Instrument No. 99-14436 (United
2007- 4-23-  Management Services, Inc.), the lands as defined in Retracement Survey and
06    2007   recorded as Instrument No. 20060001163, being part of the northeast quarter of
             Section 24, Township 19 North, Range 1 West from PB Planned Business to SF-
             3 Single-Family Residential.
07-14 11-13- Rezoning a part of the northeast quarter of Section 35, Township 19 North, Range
      2007   1 West from ID Industrial to PB Planned Business.
             Rezoning the Lifeworks Camp Street site containing approximately two acres
07-17 12-10- located in the 500 block of West Camp Street (north side) adjacent to and just
      2007   east of its intersection with Dan Conn Drive from SF-1 Single-Family Residential
             to PB Planned Business.
2009- 11-30- Rezoning 2710 North State Road 39 (Lebanon Street) from PBC Planned Business
11    2009   Commercial to MF Multifamily Residential.
      5-24-  Rezoning part of the east half of the southwest quarter, Section 24, Township 19
10-09 2010   North, Range 1 West of the second principal meridian from PBC Planned Business
             Commercial to MF Multifamily Residential.
2010- 8-9-   Rezoning 610 North Lebanon Street containing approximately 0.165 acres from MF
16    2010   Multifamily Residential to NB Neighborhood Business.
2010- 9-13-  Rezoning approximately 9.84 acres, more or less, located generally north of I-65
19    2010   and west of Hall Baker Road (tax parcel ID # 0150843003) from PBO Planned
             Business Office to PBC Planned Business Commercial.
2010- 11-22- Rezoning 0.25 acres, more or less, located at 521 South Coombs Street from ID
24    2010   General Industrial to SF-2 Single-Family Residential.
2011- 11-28- Rezoning real estate with a common address of 1979-2059 Indianapolis Avenue,
25    2011   being comprised of approximately 7.5 acres, from IN Institutional to PBC Planned
             Business Commercial.
2012- 5-29-  Rezoning the properties located at 2030, 2040, and 2070 Indianapolis Avenue,
07    2012   comprising approximately 4.80 acres, from PBO Planned Business Office to PBC
             Planned Business Commercial.
2012- 7-23-  Rezoning property located on the south side of County Road 250 North, comprising
09    2012   approximately 21.308 acres, from PBC Planned Business Commercial to MF Multi-
             Family.
2013- 5-13-  Rezoning property known as Golfside at Ulen Section 1, Golfside at Ulen Section
05    2013   2, and 2220 Golfside Drive from SF-1 Single-Family Residential to PUD Planned
             Development Unit.
2015- 10-26- Rezoning property located at 905 North Lebanon Street and 136 Tripps Avenue from
16    2015   Multi-Family and Single-Family-3 MF/SF-3 to Neighborhood Business NB.
2017- 9-25-  Rezoning property located at 916 South Pleasant Street from MF Multi-Family
17    2017   Residential to SF3 Single-Family Residential.
2018- 3-12-  Rezoning a part of the east half of Section 26, Township 19 North, Range 1 West
03    2018   to designate it as Planned Unit Development District to be known as the Riley
             Ridge PUD District.
             Rezoning parcels in the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 24,
2018- 3-12-  Township 19 North, Range 1 West, 40 acres, more or less; and the southeast
04    2018   quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 23, Township 19 Norrth, Range 1 West,
             40 acres, more or less to designate them as a Planned Unit Development District
             known as the Sunbrook Planned Unit Development District.
             Rezoning one tract in Section 36, Township 19 North, Range 1 West and one tract
2018- 6-11-  in Section 35; and part of Section 35 and part of Section 36, Township 19 North,
07    2018   Range 1 West to designate them as a Planned Unit Development District known as
             the Lebanon Gateway Marketplace Planned Unit Development.
2019- 5-28-  Rezoning property located at 906 North Lebanon Street from MF Multi-Family
05    2019   Residential to SF3 Single-Family Residential.
             Rezoning one parcel in part of the Northeast quarter of Section 23, Township 19
2019- 6-10-  N, Range 1 West; and one parcel in part of the southwest quarter of Section 24,
06    2019   Township 19 North, Range 1 West to designate them as a Planned Unit Development
             known as Sunbrook Villas Planned Unit Development.
             Rezoning property generally located north and west of the intersection of CR 300
2020- 2-10-  S. and CR 400 E. and on the north side of CR 100 S. 1,200 feet east of
01    2020   Indianapolis Avenue from SF Single- Family Residential to PUD Planned Unit
             Development.
             Rezoning property generally located south and west of the intersection of CR 100
2020- 5-26-  S. and CR 400 E. and on the north side of CR 100 S. 1,200 feet east of
06    2020   Indianapolis Avenue from SF Single- Family Residential to PUD Planned Unit
             Development for the Waterford Development.
2020- 10-13- Rezoning two parcels within the Edgewood Addition and one parcel in the northeast
09    2020   quarter of Section 31, Township 19, Range 1 East to designate them as a Planned
             Unit Development District to be known as the Cedar Ridge PUD District.
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                  Code Section
3                             32.06
3-5-2-40.1                    32.06
4-21.5-3-7                    92.031
4-21.5-5                      97.99
4-28-1                        92.006
5-4-1                         33.46
5-4-1-18(b)                   32.02
5-10.1-4-1 through 5-10.1-4-6 32.01
5-11-10                       36.02
5-14-3-8(f)                   30.05
5-22                          30.06,
                              32.08
6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(A)           36.43
6-3.6-9-17(h)(2)              36.45
7.1-3-20-16.8                 110.02
8-1-2.2                       53.01
8-1.5-3                       30.02
8-1.5-3-1 et seq.             52.04
8-1.5-3-3(a)                  33.31
8-1.5-3-4(a)                  33.31
8-1.5-5(g)(2)                 33.31
8-1.5-5-1 et seq.             33.30,
                              33.31
8-1.5-5-6                     33.31
8-22-2                        36.43
8-22-3-1                      36.43
8-23-5                        36.43
8-23-30                       36.43
9-14-5                        72.41
9-18-18                       72.41
9-18-22                       72.41
9-21-16-5.5                   72.40
10-14-3                       38.01
13-2-22-13                    92.006
14-21-1                       97.02
14-28-1                       95.054
14-28-1-26                    95.054
14-32                         56.003
14-34                         56.070
22-9-1-4 et seq.              93.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.              93.01
22-9.5-2-2                    93.02
22-9.5-2-3                    93.02
22-9.5-2-4                    93.02
22-9.5-2-8                    93.02
22-9.5-2-9                    93.02
22-9.5-2-11                   93.02
22-9.5-2-13                   93.02
22-9.5-3                      93.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.              93.10
22-9.5-4-8                    93.11
22-9.5-5                      93.02
22-9.5-5-1                    93.03
22-9.5-6                      93.02,
                              93.11
22-11-14-1                    130.03
22-12-1-3                     92.137
22-12-1-4                     94.006
22-12-1-5                     94.006
22-12-2-1                     94.006
22-13-2-7                     92.031
22-13-2-11                    94.024,
                              94.999
22-14                         94.021
22-15-3-1                     92.021
22-15-3-7                     92.021
22-15-4                       92.004
25-25-2-1                     112.10
34-28-5                       114.99
34-28-5-4                     114.99
35-42                         112.09
35-43                         112.09
35-44.1-1-4                   32.08
35-45                         112.09
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               10.99,
                              54.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)            55.100
36-1-3-8(10)                  94.999
36-1-5                        Adopting Ordinance
36-1-5-5                      Adopting Ordinance
36-1-6-4                      55.101
36-1-12                       32.08
36-4-5                        33.02
36-4-6-4                      31.07
36-4-6-8                      31.05
36-4-6-9                      31.03
36-4-6-10-17                  31.05
36-4-6-11(a)                  31.06
36-4-6-11(b)                  31.06
36-4-6-13                     31.06
36-4-6-14-17                  31.06
36-4-8                        36.02
36-4-9-8                      33.18
36-4-9-11                     33.03
36-4-9-12                     33.03
36-4-10                       36.01
36-4-11-4                     36.01
36-7-4                        95.001
36-7-7-1 through 36-7-9-28    92.131
36-7-9                        92.130
36-7-9-1 et seq.              92.140
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28    92.131
36-7-9-2                      92.136
36-7-9-4                      92.135
36-7-9-14                     92.138
36-7-9-28                     92.999
36-7-14                       33.62
36-7-14.5                     33.45
36-7-23                       33.62
36-8-6                        30.02
36-8-7                        30.02
36-8-8                        30.02
36-8-14                       36.35
                              94.023,
36-8-17                       94.041,
                              94.042
36-9-16-2                     36.35
36-9-16-3                     36.35
36-9-16-5                     36.35
36-9-17                       36.35,
                              36.36
36-9-23                       56.132
36-9-26                       36.35
36-9-27                       56.041
36-9-27-100                   36.35
                              33.70,
36-10-3                       33.71,
                              33.74,
                              100.17
36-10-3-11                    100.17
36-10-3-20                    100.17
36-10-3-21                    100.17
36-10-3-22                    100.17
36-10-3-22(b)(1)              36.40
36-10-3-27                    100.17
36-10-4                       33.70,
                              33.76
36-10-4-16                    33.74
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2011 Code
Prior Code 2011 Code
1-1        10.01
1-2        10.02
1-3        10.03
1-4        10.04
1-5        10.05
1-6        10.06
1-7        10.07
1-8        10.08
1-9        10.09
1-11       10.10
2-1        36.35
2-2        36.36
2-3        30.01
2-4        30.02
2-5        30.03
2-13       31.01—
           31.07
2-15       31.20
2-16       31.21
2-17       31.22
2-18       31.23
2-19       31.08
2-33       32.01
2-36       32.03
2-40       32.20
2-41       32.21
2-42       32.22
           33.01—
2-55       33.04,
           33.15
2-56       33.16
2-57       33.17
2-86       35.01
2-87       35.02
2-88       35.03
2-101      36.01
2-111      33.30
2-112      33.31
2-113      33.32
2-115      33.34
3-1        90.01,
           90.99
4-1        111.001
4-2        111.002
4-3        111.003
4-4        111.999
4-16       111.015
4-17       111.016
4-18       111.017
4-19       111.018
4-20       111.030
4-21       111.031
4-22       111.032
4-23       111.033
4-40       111.046
4-41       111.047
4-42       111.999
4-57       111.061
5-2        91.02
5-15       91.15
5-16       91.16
5-17       91.17
5-19       91.18
5-26       91.35
5-27       91.36
5-28       91.37
5-29       91.38
5-30       91.39
5-31       91.40
5-32       91.41
5-33       91.42
5-34       91.43
5-41       91.55
5-42       91.56
6-7        74.01
6-8        74.02
6-9        74.03
6-15       74.15
6-16       74.16
6-17       74.17
6-18       74.18
6-19       74.99
7-1        92.001
7-2        92.002
7-2.1      92.003
7-2.2      92.004
7-3        92.005
7-4        92.006
7-5        92.115
7-6        92.116
7-7        92.117
7-9        92.007
7-12       92.999
7-13       92.008
7-24       92.020
7-25       92.021
7-26       92.022
7-27       92.023
7-28       92.024
7-29       92.025
7-30       92.026
7-31       92.027
7-32       92.028
7-33       92.029
7-34       92.030
7-35       92.031
7-36       92.032
7-39       92.045
7-40       92.046
7-41       92.047
7-42       92.048
7-43       92.049
7-44       92.050
7-45       92.051
7-56       92.065
7-57       92.066
7-58       92.067
7-59       92.068
7-60       92.069
7-61       92.070
7-62       92.085
7-63       92.086
7-64       92.087
7-65       92.088
7-81       92.130
7-82       92.131
7-83       92.132
7-84       92.133
7-85       92.134
7-86       92.135
7-87       92.136
7-88       92.137
7-89       92.138
7-90       92.139,
           92.999
7-91       92.140
7-92       92.141
7-93       92.142
10-1       51.001
10-2       51.002
10-3       51.003
10-4       51.004
10-5       51.005
10-6       51.006
10-7       51.020
10-8       51.021
10-9       51.022
10-10      51.023
10-11      51.024
10-12      51.025
10-13      51.007
10-14      51.008
10-31      51.040
10-32      51.041
10-34      51.042
10-35      51.043
10-41      51.055
10-42      51.056
10-43      51.057
10-44      51.058
10-45      51.059
10-46      51.060
10-47      51.061
10-61      51.075
10-62      51.076
10-63      51.999
13-16      98.01
13-17      98.02
13-18      98.03
13-19      98.04
13-20      98.05
13-21      98.06
14-11      115.01
14-12      115.02
14-13      115.03
14-14      115.04
14-15      115.05
14-16      115.06
14-17      115.99
15-1       99.01
15-2       99.02
15-3       99.03
16-1       70.01
16-2       70.02
           71.01,
16-16      71.99,
           Ch. 76, Sch. I
16-18.5    Ch. 76, Sch. VI
16-19      71.15
16-20      71.16
16-21      71.17
16-22      Ch. 76, Sch. II
16-23      71.18
16-24      Ch. 76, Sch. III
16-30      72.01
16-31      72.02
16-32      72.03
16-33      72.04
16-34      72.05
16-34(c)   Ch. 77, Sch. I
16-35      72.06
16-36      72.07
16-37      72.08
16-38      72.09
16-39      72.10
16-40      72.11
16-55.1    72.25
16-55.2    72.26
16-55.3    72.27
16-55.4    72.28
16-55.5    72.99
16-55.16   72.40
16-55.17   72.41
16-55.18   72.42
16-55.19   72.43
16-55.20   72.44
16-55.21   72.45,
           72.99
16-56      73.01
16-57      Ch. 76, Sch. IV
16-58      73.02
16-59      73.03
16-60      73.04
16-61      73.05
16-62      73.06
16-63      73.07
16-65      73.99
17-1       130.01
17-2       130.02
17-4       132.02
           132.01,
17-4.1     132.03,
           132.99
17-5       130.04
17-6       130.05
17-7       130.06,
           130.99
17-19      131.01
17-20      131.02
17-21      131.03
17-22      131.04
17-29      131.15
17-30      131.16
17-31      131.17
17-32      131.18
17-33      131.19
17-34      131.20
17-35      131.21
17-36      131.22
17-43      131.35
17-44      131.36
17-45      131.37
17-46      131.38
17-47      131.39
18-1       100.01,
           100.99
18-3       100.02
18-4       100.03
18-15      100.15
18-15.1    100.16
18-15.2    100.17
18-16      100.18
18-19      100.19
18-20      100.20
21-16      36.37
21-17      36.37
21-18      36.37
21-19      36.37
23-1       101.001
23-2       101.002,
           101.999
23-3       101.003
23-4       101.004
23-6       101.005
23-7       101.006
23-31      101.020
23-32      101.021
23-33      101.022
23-40      101.035
23-41      101.036
23-53      101.050
23-54      101.051
23-55      101.052
23-56      101.053
23-57      101.054
23-59      101.055
23-60      101.056
23-61      101.057
23-73      101.070
23-74      101.071
23-75      101.072
23-76      101.073
23-77      101.074
23-89      101.085
23-90      101.086
23-91      101.087
23-103     101.100
23-104     101.101
23-118     101.115
23-119     101.116
23-120     101.117
23-121     101.118
23-122     101.119
23-123     101.120
23-124     101.121
23-125     101.122
23-126     101.123
23-127     101.124
23-128     101.125
23-129     101.126
23-130     101.127
25-1       50.01
25-14      52.01
25-15      52.02
25-16      52.03
25-17      52.04
25-18      52.05
25-19      52.06
25-30      53.01
25-31      53.02
25-32      53.03,
           Ch. 53, App. A
25-33      53.04
25-38      53.05
25-39      53.06
25-40      53.07
25-43      53.08
25-44      53.09
25-45      53.10
25-62      54.01
25-63      54.02
25-64      54.03
25-65      54.04
25-66      54.05
25-67      54.06
25-68      54.07
25-70      54.20
25-71      54.21
25-72      54.22
25-73      54.23
25-74      54.24
25-75      54.25
25-76      54.26
25-77      54.27
25-77.1    54.28
25-77.2    54.29
25-77.3    54.30,
           54.99
25-78.1    54.45
25-78.2    54.46
25-78.3    54.47
26-11      113.01
26-12      113.02
26-13      113.03
26-14      113.04
26-15      113.05
26-16      113.20
26-17      113.21
26-18      113.22
26-19      113.23
26-20      113.24
26-21      113.25
26-22      113.26
26-23      113.27
26-24      113.28
26.5-11    102.01
26.5-12    102.02
26.5-13    102.03
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
93-8     8-23-1993   TSO I
93-9     8-23-1993   TSO I
2012-05  6-12-2012   32.06
2013-07  3-25-2013   TSO I
2013-13  7-22-2013   TSO VI
2013-17  8-26-2013   TSO III
2014-01  1-13-2014   36.02
2014-07  4-28-2014   36.02
2014-18  10-14-2014  TSO III
2014-22  11-12-2014  32.08
2015-15  6-8-2015    36.44
2015-17  9-28-2015   TSO III
2018-02  1-22-2018   TSO V
2018-18  5-14-2018   TSO III
2019-02  3-25-2019   TSO V
2020-09  11-9-2020   TSO III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     51.020—
9-1969   - -         51.022,
                     51.024,
                     51.025
85-7     - -         Ch. 77, Sch. II
87-8     - -         TSO IX
88-11    - -         TSO IX
90-11    - -         TSO VIII
91-1     - -         Ch. 76, Sch. V
93-17    - -         TSO VIII
94-3     - -         TSO VII
95-6     - -         TSO I
95-7     - -         50.02
95-12    - -         TSO VII
96-1     - -         TSO IX
97-4     - -         Ch. 76, Sch. I
98-5     - -         TSO VIII
98-7     - -         TSO I
98-10    - -         TSO I
99-1     - -         TSO VII
99-5     - -         TSO I
99-6     - -         TSO I
99-7     - -         TSO I
99-9     - -         91.19,
                     91.99
99-10    - -         TSO I
99-12    - -         TSO IX
00-6     - -         TSO IX
00-7     - -         TSO I
01-09    - -         TSO I
03-04    - -         TSO I
2003-05  - -         TSO I
03-10    - -         54.01—
                     54.03
04-09    - -         54.01—
                     54.03
05-01    - -         36.15—
                     36.24
07-08    - -         56.125—
                     56.132
2008-05  - -         TSO I
08-06    - -         37.01—
                     37.04
09-02    - -         36.38
09-05    - -         53.02
10-11    - -         Ch. 77, Sch. I
10-14    - -         70.03
-        11-8-1875   130.04
-        12-1-1875   132.02
-        12-22-1875  101.101
-        1-13-1881   130.05
-        3-20-1884   101.002,
                     101.999
-        10-12-1885  111.001—
                     111.003
-        7-27-1896   101.020
-        5-26-1899   101.085—
                     101.087
-        2-13-1906   101.100
-        5-9-1910    101.050—
                     101.056
-        11-14-1910  54.01—
                     54.06
-        5-8-1911    90.01,
                     90.99
-        1-12-1925   92.115—
                     92.117
-        8-23-1926   101.052,
                     101.053
-        4-11-1932   111.061
-        12-12-1932  32.20—
                     32.22
-        12-11-1933  32.21
-        8-10-1936   101.052,
                     101.053
-        1-23-1939   51.006
                     71.01,
                     71.99,
-        6-12-1939   72.03,
                     72.04,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I
-        10-23-1939  33.16,
                     33.17
                     111.015—
-        11-13-1939  111.018,
                     111.030—
                     111.033
                     111.046,
5-1941   3-24-1941   111.047,
                     111.999
                     113.01—
-        12-9-1946   113.05,
                     113.20—
                     113.28
-        12-22-1947  32.22
-        1-3-1952    32.01
-        2-25-1952   36.37
-        12-8-1952   99.01—
                     99.03
-        5-25-1953   100.02
-        11-9-1953   130.02
-        1-11-1954   36.36
-        1-25-1954   36.36
-        6-28-1954   91.02
-        6-13-1955   72.05,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. I
                     72.01,
-        2-20-1956   72.02,
                     72.08,
                     72.09
-        4-23-1956   50.01
-        3-25-1957   130.01
-        6-10-1957   101.057
-        8-12-1957   54.01—
                     54.06
                     113.02,
-        1-27-1958   113.03,
                     113.05
-        2-8-1960    72.05,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. I
-        8-8-1960    74.01—
                     74.03
                     52.01,
-        3-11-1963   52.02,
                     52.04—
                     52.06
-        3-25-1968   98.01—
                     98.05
1-69     4-14-1969   100.99
3-70     4-27-1970   54.01—
                     54.06
4-70     4-27-1970   53.05—
                     53.09
15-70    12-28-1970  72.06,
                     72.07
                     131.01—
                     131.04,
73-5     6-11-1973   131.15—
                     131.22,
                     131.35—
                     131.39
                     91.15—
                     91.18,
74-4     2-25-1974   91.35—
                     91.43,
                     91.55
74-17    9-8-1974    92.020,
                     92.999
74-12    9-9-1974    92.007,
                     92.022
74-16    9-9-1974    101.115—
                     101.127
                     92.005,
74-17    9-9-1974    92.007,
                     92.021,
                     92.023
75-7     7-28-1975   130.06,
                     130.99
75-14    10-27-1975  130.06,
                     130.99
75-16    11-10-1975  92.007,
                     92.022
75-19    1-12-1976   54.01—
                     54.06
76-4     3-8-1976    54.01—
                     54.06
                     115.01—
76-3     4-16-1976   115.06,
                     115.99
76-6     4-26-1976   100.18—
                     100.20
77-1     1-24-1977   52.04
77-16    8-22-1977   115.03
78-5     2-16-1978   53.10
78-9     4-24-1978   91.18
                     54.01—
78-24    11-27-1978  54.04,
                     54.07
                     54.01—
79-1     1-3-1979    54.03,
                     54.07
79-4     3-12-1979   51.057—
                     51.061
79-5     3-12-1979   102.01—
                     102.03
                     54.01—
79-18    6-25-1979   54.03,
                     54.07
79-30    12-27-1979  51.040—
                     51.042
80-11    5-12-1980   53.01
80-12    5-12-1980   54.07
                     101.020,
                     101.021,
80-14    8-25-1980   101.035,
                     101.036,
                     101.051—
                     101.057
                     73.01—
80-23    11-24-1980  73.07,
                     73.99,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. IV
80-25    12-8-1980   51.055—
                     51.061
                     72.25—
81-10    7-27-1981   72.28,
                     72.99
81-21    11-23-1981  35.01—
                     35.03
82-4     1-25-1982   51.055
82-7     4-26-1982   50.01,
                     92.021
82-9     5-10-1982   72.99
                     30.01,
                     30.02,
                     31.01—
82-11    7-12-1982   31.07,
                     33.01—
                     33.04,
                     33.15,
                     36.01
83-9     4-12-1983   32.03
83-12    5-23-1983   72.28
                     111.002,
83-14    5-23-1983   111.017,
                     111.032,
                     111.999
                     70.02,
                     71.01,
                     71.15—
                     71.18,
                     71.99,
83-8     6-13-1983   72.05,
                     72.10,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. II,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. I
83-16    7-25-1983   72.05,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. I
                     72.05.
83-21    10-10-1983  Ch. 76, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. VI,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. I
83-26    12-28-1983  Ch. 76, Sch. VI
                     33.01—
84-2     2-27-1984   33.04,
                     33.15
84-3     2-27-1984   91.15,
                     91.55
84-4     2-27-1984   101.053
84-8     4-23-1984   TSO VIII
84-9     4-23-1984   TSO VIII
84-10    4-23-1984   TSO VIII
                     72.42—
84-13    6-25-1984   72.45,
                     72.99
                     51.043,
84-19    9-10-1984   51.055,
                     51.056
84-24    11-13-1984  72.28
                     100.15,
84-25    12-10-1984  100.16,
                     100.18
84-26    12-10-1984  TSO VIII
85-11    10-28-1985  51.055
85-13    11-11-1985  72.11
85-12    12-9-1985   TSO III
                     132.01,
86-1     2-24-1986   132.03,
                     132.99
86-2     3-24-1986   72.05,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. I
86-4     5-12-1986   31.07
86-6     5-12-1986   72.43
86-3     5-28-1986   100.99
86-8     6-23-1986   TSO II
86-9     7-28-1986   72.05,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. I
86-13    9-8-1986    TSO IX
86-18    10-13-1986  Ch. 76, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. V
86-19    10-13-1986  100.17
86-20    11-24-1986  TSO VIII
87-5     6-8-1987    TSO IX
87-6     7-27-1987   92.023
87-10    10-12-1987  72.05,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. I
1987-11  11-9-1987   TSO I
87-12    11-9-1987   TSO I
87-13    11-9-1987   TSO I
87-15    1-11-1988   Ch. 77, Sch. II
                     92.130—
88-1     3-14-1988   92.141,
                     92.999
                     92.001—
                     92.003,
                     92.020,
88-2     3-28-1988   92.021,
                     92.024—
                     92.032,
                     92.116,
                     92.999
88-3     4-25-1988   92.142
88-4     6-27-1988   100.03
88-5     6-27-1988   TSO IX
1988-6   6-28-1988   TSO I
                     51.075,
88-7     6-27-1988   51.076,
                     51.999
88-8     7-11-1988   Ch. 76, Sch. V
88-9     7-11-1988   TSO I
88-14    9-12-1988   TSO I
                     54.20—
88-16    9-26-1988   54.30,
                     54.99
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I,
88-17    10-10-1988  Ch. 76, Sch. V,
                     TSO VII
88-19    10-24-1988  Ch. 76, Sch. V
88-15    11-9-1988   Ch. 76, Sch. V
88-21    11-14-1988  32.05
                     71.01,
88-18    12-12-1988  71.99,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I
89-2     2-27-1989   TSO VIII
89-5     6-12-1989   TSO I
89-7     6-26-1989   Ch. 76, Sch. V
89-6     7-10-1989   Ch. 76, Sch. VI
89-9     7-24-1989   36.40
89-13    8-28-1989   TSO VIII
89-15    9-8-1989    TSO IX
89-16    12-27-1989  11.01
90-3     5-14-1990   92.006
90-5     5-29-1990   Ch. 76, Sch. V
                     74.15—
90-6     5-29-1990   74.18,
                     74.99
                     33.30—
90-8     6-11-1990   33.32,
                     33.34
90-10    7-9-1990    11.01
90-17    9-10-1990   54.45—
                     54.47
90-18    10-8-1990   51.055
90-20    10-22-1990  31.07
90-19    11-12-1990  33.60—
                     33.62
91-10    10-14-1991  Ch. 76, Sch. V
92-2     2-24-1992   TSO IV
92-3     3-23-1992   Ch. 76, Sch. V
92-7     12-14-1992  TSO VIII
92-8     12-28-1992  31.07
93-15    - -1993     TSO VIII
93-6     6-14-1993   TSO I
93-7     6-14-1993   TSO IX
93-8     6-28-1993   TSO I
93-11    8-9-1993    91.56
93-12    8-23-1993   TSO I
93-13    8-23-1993   TSO I
93-16    11-8-1993   TSO I
93-18    11-22-1993  TSO IX
93-19    1-10-1994   130.07,
                     130.99
94-2     3-28-1994   TSO VIII
94-4     5-9-1994    Ch. 76, Sch. V
94-5     6-13-1994   Ch. 76, Sch. V
94-8     7-11-1994   TSO I
94-10    8-8-1994    33.45—
                     33.47
94-12    9-12-1994   TSO VI
94-13    11-14-1994  Ch. 53, App. A
94-14    11-28-1994  Ch. 76, Sch. V
95-2     2-27-1995   TSO I
95-3     4-10-1995   TSO IX
95-10    7-24-1995   TSO I
95-11    10-9-1995   Ch. 76, Sch. I
96-2     2-26-1996   36.39
96-4     3-11-1996   Ch. 76, Sch. I
96-8     4-22-1996   Ch. 76, Sch. V
96-9     4-22-1996   92.008
96-12    7-8-1996    TSO I
96-14    7-22-1996   30.04
97-12    - -1997     32.04
96-22    1-13-1997   TSO VIII
97-6     5-27-1997   Ch. 76, Sch. V
97-7     6-23-1997   Ch. 76, Sch. V
98-2     3-9-1998    Ch. 76, Sch. V
98-4     6-22-1998   30.06
98-8     10- -1998   TSO IX
98-9     11-9-1998   TSO VIII
99-8     4-12-1999   54.04
99-14    10-25-1999  TSO IX
99-15    11–22-1999TSO VIII
99-16    12- -1999   TSO VIII
00-3     3- -2000    TSO IX
00-2     3-1-2000    TSO VIII
00-5     3-27-2000   30.05
00-4     6-12-2000   32.24
00-07    6-26-2000   TSO VII
00-8     6-26-2000   TSO VIII
                     31.05,
00-9     7-24-2000   31.21,
                     32.03,
                     32.22
00-10    7-24-2000   Ch. 76, Sch. I
00-11    7-24-2000   Ch. 76, Sch. V
00-18    11-13-2000  TSO IX
00-19    1-22-2001   Ch. 76, Sch. III
01-01    1-22-2001   TSO VII
01-04    5-14-2001   Ch. 76, Sch. V
01-05    5-29-2001   101.053
01-07    7-23-2001   TSO VIII
2002-1   1-14-2002   30.04
02-03    3-11-2002   72.02,
                     72.99
02-04    4-8-2002    TSO VII
02-08    10-28-2002  31.07
03-07    - -2003     Ch. 76, Sch. V
03-03    1-27-2003   Ch. 76, Sch. V
2003-06  2-24-2003   TSO IX
03-08    4-28-2003   51.020,
                     51.999
03-09    6-23-2003   TSO IX
03-13    8-25-2003   TSO VIII
03-16    9-8-2003    TSO IX
03-17    9-22-2003   Ch. 76, Sch. V
03-18    10-13-2003  TSO VIII
2004-03  - -2004     TSO VIII
04-01    1-26-2004   Ch. 76, Sch. V
04-02    7-12-2004   TSO I
04-04    8-9-2004    57.01,
                     57.02
04-08    9-13-2004   TSO I
04-11    11-22-2004  TSO IX
04-12    12-27-2004  TSO I
05-02    2-28-2005   TSO I
05-03    5-23-2005   TSO I
05-04    5-23-2005   TSO I
05-07    5-23-2005   57.15—
                     57.31
05-08    5-23-2005   32.23
05-05    8-22-2005   TSO I
05-11    9-6-2005    TSO IX
05-13    9-29-2005   TSO VIII
05-14    9-29-2005   37.01—
                     37.04
05-15    9-29-2005   30.04
2005-23  12-5-2005   TSO V
06-06    2-13-2006   32.23
06-02    2-27-2006   Ch. 76, Sch. V
06-03    2-27-2006   Ch. 76, Sch. V
06-04    2-27-2006   TSO IV
                     75.02—
06-05    3-13-2006   75.08,
                     75.99
06-01    3-27-2006   TSO I
                     72.25,
06-07    4-10-2006   72.26,
                     72.99
06-09    5-8-2006    54.02
                     56.001—
                     56.007,
                     56.020—
                     56.026,
                     56.040—
                     56.043,
                     56.055—
06-15    11-13-2006  56.058,
                     56.070—
                     56.074,
                     56.085—
                     56.093,
                     56.105—
                     56.110,
                     56.999
07-01    1-22-2007   TSO I
07-03    3-26-2007   TSO IX
07-04    4-23-2007   TSO I
2007-06  4-23-2007   TSO IX
07-05    5-14-2007   TSO I
07-07    5-14-2007   56.125—
                     56.132
07-09    7-23-2007   TSO I
07-11    8-27-2007   57.32
07-14    11-13-2007  TSO IX
07-17    12-10-2007  TSO IX
08-08    8-25-2008   TSO I
                     57.15,
                     57.16,
08-09    8-25-2008   57.19,
                     57.28,
                     57.32,
                     57.33
09-06    8-24-2009   54.03
                     94.001—
                     94.006,
                     94.020—
                     94.027,
                     94.040—
                     94.043,
                     94.055,
                     94.056,
                     94.070,
                     94.085—
2009-10  11-30-2009  94.094,
                     94.105,
                     94.106,
                     94.120—
                     94.122,
                     94.135,
                     94.150—
                     94.154,
                     94.165—
                     94.167,
                     94.999
2009-11  11-30-2009  TSO IX
                     92.131,
                     96.01,
2010-01  2-8-2010    96.03—
                     96.05,
                     96.99
                     100.35—
10-02    2-8-2010    100.39,
                     100.99
10-03    2-22-2010   TSO VIII
                     75.02—
10-05    4-12-2010   75.08,
                     75.99
10-07    5-24-2010   TSO VIII
10-09    5-24-2010   TSO IX
10-08    6-28-2010   72.06,
                     72.99
10-10    6-28-2010   54.01—
                     54.03
                     97.01—
10-12    7-12-2010   97.15,
                     97.99
2010-16  8-9-2010    TSO IX
10-18    8-9-2010    Ch. 77, Sch. I
10-17    8-23-2010   Ch. 76, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. I
                     114.01,
2010-20  8-23-2010   114.02,
                     114.99
2010-19  9-13-2010   TSO IX
2010-24  11-22-2010  TSO IX
10-28    12-13-2010  TSO VI
2011-12  8-8-2011    96.04
                     112.01—
2011-24  11-16-2011  112.12,
                     112.99
2011-25  11-28-2011  TSO IX
2012-01  1-23-2012   32.02
2012-02  3-12-2012   53.03
2012-04  3-12-2011   Adopting Ordinance
2012-05  3-26-2012   Ch. 76, Sch. V
2012-06  3-26-2012   Ch. 76, Sch. V
2012-07  5-29-2012   TSO IX
2012-09  7-23-2012   TSO IX
2012-10  9-24-2012   33.70—
                     33.76
2012-11  9-24-2012   53.03
2012-12  10-22-2012  36.41
2012-16  11-26-2012  101.007
                     93.01—
2012-17  11-26-2012  93.09,
                     93.11
2012-18  11-26-2012  32.07
2012-21  1-14-2013   31.07
2013-01  2-25-2013   TSO I
2013-05  5-13-2013   TSO IX
2013-06  6-24-2013   92.009,
                     92.130
2013-08  6-10-2013   TSO V
2013-11  7-22-2013   92.005
2013-12  9-9-2013    54.02
2013-17  12-11-2013  36.42
2014-01  2-24-2014   36.38
2014-02  2-24-2014   72.99
2014-03  2-27-2014   52.07
2014-07  4-14-2014   93.01—
                     93.11
2014-08  6-9-2014    TSO I
2014-09  7-22-2013   TSO VI
2014-10  6-23-2014   30.05
2014-12  9-8-2014    TSO I
2014-14  9-22-2014   TSO II
                     56.001—
                     56.007,
                     56.020—
                     56.026,
                     56.040—
                     56.043,
                     56.055—
                     56.058,
2015-01  1-26-2015   56.070—
                     56.074,
                     56.085—
                     56.093,
                     56.105—
                     56.110,
                     56.125—
                     56.132,
                     56.999
2015-02  1-26-2015   101.087
2015-03  2-9-2015    Ch. 76, Sch. V
15-04    2-23-2015   52.03
2015-05  3-23-2015   53.03
                     71.25—
2015-06  4-27-2015   71.28,
                     71.99
2015-15  11-10-2015  92.007,
                     92.022
2015-16  10-26-2015  TSO IX
2015-19  12-14-2015  TSO I
2015-20  1-11-2016   Ch. 76, Sch. V
2016-02  4-25-2016   TSO VIII
2016-03  5-23-2016   36.43
2016-04  6-27-2016   30.07
2016-05  6-27-2016   110.02
2016-06  9-12-16     36.45
2016-07  9-26-2016   56.129
2016-08  10-12-2016  Ch. 77, Sch. I
2016-12  11-15-2016  TSO VIII
2016-14  1-9-2017    Ch. 76, Sch. V
2017-01  1-23-2017   TSO VIII
2017-03  3-27-2017   54.07
                     95.001—
                     95.004,
                     95.015—
                     95.023,
                     95.035—
2017-05  4-24-2017   95.037,
                     95.050—
                     95.057,
                     95.070—
                     95.076,
                     95.999
                     55.001—
                     55.006,
                     55.100—
                     55.104,
                     55.200—
                     55.205,
2017-06  6-12-2017   55.300—
                     55.309,
                     55.400—
                     55.409,
                     55.500—
                     55.513,
                     55.999
                     96.01—
2017-08  7-24-2017   96.05,
                     96.99
2017-09  8-14-2017   92.150
2017-10  8-14-2017   130.06
2017-11  8-28-2017   53.03
2017-13  9-11-2017   TSO I
2017-17  9-25-2017   TSO IX
                     33.18,
2017-18  12-11-2017  33.30,
                     33.31,
                     33.34
2018-02  2-12-2018   53.03
2018-03  3-12-2018   TSO IX
2018-04  3-12-2018   TSO IX
2018-05  4-9-2018    TSO I
18-06    4-23-2018   54.01—
                     54.03
2018-07  6-11-2018   TSO IX
2018-08  6-15-2018   TSO I
                     75.01—
2018-09  7-23-2018   75.08,
                     75.99
2018-10  7-23-2018   130.03,
                     130.99
2018-11  8-13-2018   Ch. 76, Sch. V
2018-12  8-13-2018   36.15—
                     36.24
2018-13  11-13-2018  TSO I
2018-18  11-26-2018  TSO I
2018-19  11-26-2018  TSO I
2018-20  11-26-2018  TSO I
2018-21  11-26-2018  TSO I
2018-23  1-14-2019   TSO I
2019-02  2-11-2019   Ch. 77, Sch. I
2019-03  4-8-2019    92.022
2019-04  5-28-2019   TSO I
2019-05  5-28-2019   TSO IX
2019-06  6-10-2019   TSO IX
2019-11  11-12-2019  TSO VIII
2020-01  2-10-2020   TSO IX
2020-02  2-24-2020   TSO I
2020-03  2-24-2020   TSO I
2020-05  3-9-2020    Ch. 77, Sch. I
2020-06  5-26-2020   TSO IX
2020-07  8-10-2020   TSO I
2020-08  9-14-2020   Ch. 76, Sch. V
2020-09  10-13-2020  TSO IX
2020-15  12-14-2020  TSO I
                    
 
 
 
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE PARALLEL REFERENCES
 
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section        Code Section
2-7-2-33.8          11.1
4-22-2              11.1
5-3-1               9.15
12-7-2-33.7         11.1
12-17-2-5           7.10
12-17.4             11.1
12-28-4-7           11.1
12-28-4-8           11.1
12-72-29            11.1
13-18-10            11.1
14-28-1             9.3
23-14-8             9.21
                    7.4,
32-25               9.18,
                    11.1
36-7-1-2            11.1
36-7-4-400 et seq.  2.2
36-7-4-602          9.13
36-7-4-603          5.3
36-7-4-608          9.13
36-7-4-615          9.14
36-7-4-900          2.4,
                    11.1
36-7-4-918.1        2.4
36-7-4-918.2        2.4
36-7-4-918.4        9.23
36-7-4-918.5        2.4,
                    9.23
36-7-4-921          2.4,
                    9.23
36-7-4-1014         10.3
36-7-4-1106         7.19
36-7-4-1500 et seq. 5.1
36-7-4-1503         5.1
36-7-4-1512         5.2,
                    5.3
36-7-4920           2.4
36-9-27             11.1
36-74-608           9.13
36-74-916           2.4
127-2-28.4          11.1
127-2-28.6          11.1
367-4-1000          2.4
367-4-1400          11.1
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     1.1—
                     1.11,
                     2.1—
                     2.5,
                     3.1—
                     3.3,
                     4.1—
                     4.18,
                     5.1—
                     5.7,
07-16    12-10-2007  6.1—
                     6.3,
                     7.1—
                     7.22,
                     8.1—
                     8.18,
                     9.1—
                     9.24,
                     10.1—
                     10.8,
                     11.1
                     4.13,
                     4.16,
                     4.3,
2008-04  6-23-2008   6.1,
                     6.2,
                     6.3,
                     11.1
                     3.1,
                     4.3,
                     4.13,
                     4.14,
2008-07  7-28-2008   7.7,
                     7.8,
                     7.14,
                     7.22,
                     9.7
2008-13  12-8-2008   7.7
                     1.8,
                     4.2,
                     4.3,
                     4.18,
                     6.1,
                     6.3,
                     7.5—
                     7.8,
2009-04  4-13-2009   7.18,
                     9.3,
                     9.5,
                     9.16;
                     9.17,
                     9.19—
                     9.21,
                     9.23,
                     11.1
                     4.2,
2014-06  4-28-2014   6.1,
                     7.7,
                     7.8
2015-08  5-26-2015   7.10,
                     7.18
                     4.2,
                     4.15,
2015-14  11-10-2015  7.21,
                     9.5,
                     11.1
2017-12  9-11-2017   7.5
                     4.2,
                     4.15,
2018-01  2-12-2018   4.16,
                     7.18,
                     11.1
                    
 
