LEESBURG, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current Ord. 2024-15, passed 11-11-2024
State legislation current through 2024 ALS Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
 
TOWN COUNCIL
Council President      Christina Archer
Council Vice President Thomas D. Moore
Council Member         Mitchell Rader
TOWN OFFICIALS
Clerk-Treasurer        Michael Searfoss
Town Attorney          Nick M. Jacobs
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION: GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the Leesburg Town Code,
for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or “code” may
be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content.
      (2)   These descriptive headings are for organizational purposes only and
do not affect the meaning, application or construction of the law they precede.
      (3)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   (a)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and
usual sense.
         (b)   Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Board of Trustees.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Leesburg.
      COUNTY. The County of Kosciusko, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall
mean the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Leesburg, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) of
this section does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the town exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides. The section shall be treated as still remaining
in force for the purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for
the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place. Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The town shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in 1982, and subsequently amended, the
previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1982 Code,
§          )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind that violates any
provision of the town code of the Town of Leesburg or fails to comply with any
of the mandatory requirements of the Town Code of the Town of Leesburg shall
pay a fine to the Town of Leesburg as follows:
      (1)   A fine of $25 for the first offense;
      (2)   A fine of $100 for the second offense; and
      (3)   A fine of $200 for the third offense.
   (B)   The fines shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Leesburg
within 30 days from the issuance and receipt of a citation for such violation,
and if not so paid, a civil action to collect such fines shall be filed in
Kosciusko County Superior Court on behalf of the Town against the violator in
order to collect the fine, and in such case, and upon a finding that the
violator violated the Town Code, a fine will be imposed as hereinabove provided
and the court may order the violator to reimburse the town for its reasonable
expenses in enforcing the section of the Code or other Ordinance, including
reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
   (C)   It shall be the policy of the town to take the following steps with
regard to issuance of ordinance violation tickets.
      (1)   It is the policy of the Town Council to exhaust all reasonable
efforts to obtain compliance with the ordinances of the town before resulting
to the issuance of an ordinance violation ticket.
      (2)   When a violation of an ordinance has been witnessed in person by
the Street Superintendent or any elected official of the town, the violation
will be documented by photographic evidence and a written report to be prepared
by the Street Superintendent or the official that initially witnessed the
violation.
      (3)   The Street Superintendent will give the owner/occupant who
committed or allowed the violation a verbal warning and a copy of the Town
ordinance that has been violated.
      (4)   If the violation has not been corrected within 30 days of the
verbal warning, a written warning will be delivered personally to the owner/
occupant or mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner/
occupant.
      (5)   The notice will specify a date certain by which the violation must
be corrected.
      (6)   If the violation is not corrected by the date specified, the matter
will be brought to the attention of the Town Council.
      (7)   The Town Council will make a decision as to whether to issue an
ordinance violation ticket to the offender. If an ordinance violation ticket is
issued, the ticket must be signed by at least two representatives of the town.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 2014-2, passed 10-13-2014; Ord. 2019-3, passed 4-
8-2019)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.02   Voting districts
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
§ 30.02 VOTING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall consist of three members.
   (B)   The town voting districts are hereby abolished.
   (C)   All members of the Town Council shall be elected at large by the
voters of the Town of Leesburg as a whole.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 2) (Ord. passed 3-14-1983; Ord. 2015-3, passed 12-14-
2015)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Term of office
   
31.02   Residency required
   
31.03   Powers and duties
   
31.04   President
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.15   Open meetings
   
31.16   Executive sessions
   
31.17   Notice of meetings
   
31.18   Agenda
   
31.19   Record of meetings
   
31.20   Quorum
   
31.21   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.35   Presiding officer
   
31.36   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.37   Absence of President
   
31.38   Duties of the President
   
31.39   Duties of Town Council members
   
31.40   Seconding of motions required
   
31.41   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.42   Division of questions
   
31.43   Record of motions
   
31.44   Vote
   
31.45   Precedence of motion
   
31.46   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.47   Motion to adjourn
   
31.48   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.49   Motion to amend
   
31.50   Amendments
   
31.51   Reconsideration
   
31.52   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.53   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.54   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.55   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f), or
(g), the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years,
beginning at 12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing
until the member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.02 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Art. 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town, but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.04 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.15 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.16 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining, which does not include a discussion or
meeting under I.C. 20-29-6-7;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this clause,
“litigation” includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding
under federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   A.   A real property transaction including:
                  i.   A purchase;
                  ii.   A lease as lessor;
                  iii.   A lease as lessee;
                  iv.   A transfer;
                  v.   An exchange; or
                  vi.   A sale;
               B.   By the governing body up to the time a contract or option
executed by the parties. this clause does not affect a political subdivision’s
duty to comply with any other statute that governs the conduct of the real
property transaction, including I.C. 36-1-10 or I.C. 36-1-11.
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by the state’s Economic
Development Corporation, the Office of Tourism Development (before July 1,
2020) or the Indiana Destination Development Corporation (after June 30, 2020),
the state’s Finance Authority, the ports of the state, an Economic Development
Commission, the state’s Department of Agriculture, the Indiana White River
State Park Development Commission, a local economic development organization
that is a nonprofit corporation established under state law whose primary
purpose is the promotion of industrial or business development in Indiana, the
retention or expansion of Indiana businesses, or the development of
entrepreneurial activities in Indiana or a governing body of a political
subdivision. However, this subdivision does not apply to any discussions
regarding research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other
law.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism; and
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division (B)(14).
      (15)   (a)   For discussion by the governing body of a state educational
institution of:
            1.   The assessment of; or
            2.   Negotiation with another entity concerning;
         (b)   The establishment of collaborative relationship or venture to
advance the research, engagement, or education mission of the state educational
institution. However, this subdivision does to apply to any discussions
regarding research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other
law.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) of this section. The requirements
stated in §
31.19 of this chapter for memoranda and minutes being made available to the
public is modified as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes
must identify the subject matter considered by specific reference to the
enumerated instance or instances for which public notice was given. The Town
Council shall certify by a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town
Council that no subject matter was discussed in the executive session other
than the subject matter specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.17 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
§ 31.18 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.19 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 of this chapter or any other statute that authorizes a governing
body to conduct a meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.20 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.21 CLERK OF TOWN COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.35 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
§ 31.36 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.37 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.38 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.39 DUTIES OF TOWN COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.40 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.41 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.42 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.43 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.44 VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by “ayes” and “nays”, all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “aye” or “nay”, as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “aye” and those voting “nay”.
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
§ 31.45 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.46 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.47 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.48 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.49 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.50 AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.51 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained,
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that, where a motion has received a
majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of the motion; then, in that case, a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the
question to be reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new
information is forthcoming and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.52 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.53 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed
to the Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the
meeting.
   (B)   The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the
material to the members of the Council.
§ 31.54 ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.55 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Compensation for attending seminars and training sessions
   
32.07   Vacancy in office
Town Marshal
   
32.20   Appointment; compensation
   
32.21   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.24   Deputy Marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.25   Body armor
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Art. 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town. An individual who resides in
territory that is annexed by the town before the election is considered a
resident of the town for the purposes of this section, even if the annexation
took effect less than one year befoer the election.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6.5, the Clerk-Treasurer is both the
Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and
employees needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval
of the Town Council.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   (1)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection.
      (2)   These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s pleasure.
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   (1)   If the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to perform the fiscal
requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position, the town shall hire or contract
with a qualified certified public accountant to:
         (a)   Provide guidance to the Clerk-Treasurer regarding the
performance of the Clerk-Treasurer’s responsibilities; or
         (b)   Perform the Clerk-Treasurer’s fiscal responsibilities.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is considered to be unable to perform the
fiscal requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position if the town is declared
unauditable under I.C. 5-11-1-9(b).
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (C) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk- Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06 COMPENSATION FOR ATTENDING SEMINARS AND TRAINING SESSIONS.
   The Town Board is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the
General Fund or from other funds of the town to pay the per diem and other
reasonable travel expenses, including, but not limited to, mileage, lodging and
meals, in such amount as is then currently paid to state employees by the
state, for attending seminars and/or training sessions that the said Clerk-
Treasurer has been authorized to attend by the Town Board.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 3) (Ord. passed 5-13-1985)
§ 32.07 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies if the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is vacant
and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Councilmember, who shall assume the
duties of the office of Clerk-Treasurer. For purposes of Indiana Constitution
Article 2, § 9 and state law, if a Town Councilmember serves as the ex officio
Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Councilmember:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Councilmember; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office. A Town Councilmember may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council may either:
      (1)   Enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-1-7 with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council of another town in the state to assist the
Town Councilmember selected under division (B) above in performing the duties
of the Clerk-Treasurer's office. The agreement may not last longer than the
remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer's term and must meet the requirements
of I.C. 36-1-7; or
      (2)   Enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the Town Councilmember selected under division (B) above in performing the
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer's office, provided that the contract may not last
longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer's term.
   (D)   If, after reasonable diligence, the town is unable to meet the
requirements under division (C) above, the town may hire any qualified person
to perform the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office until the vacancy can be
filled under I.C. 3-13-9-3, or until the end of the current Clerk-Treasurer’s
term, whichever is first.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.20 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix the Town
Marshal’s compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.21 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for municipal fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.22 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or the marshal’s deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to the marshal’s by the Town Court
or Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within the marshal’s or deputy’s view, take them before a court having
jurisdiction and detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been
investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to the marshal’s or
deputy’s aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.23 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.24 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A) The Town Council shall by ordinance fix the number of Deputy Marshals.
The Town Council may by ordinance authorize the Town Marshal to appoint Deputy
Marshals. Deputy Marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Town Marshal
in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One Deputy Marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. The
designated deputy has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane
officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bonds, compensation and terms
of service of Deputy Marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a Deputy Marshal at
any time. However, a Deputy Marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 of this chapter is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.25 BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   The town shall provide the Town Marshal and active Deputy Marshals of
the town with body armor for the torso. The town shall replace the body armor
for the torso according to the replacement period recommended by the
manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active Deputy Marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.01   Appropriation required
   
33.02   Issue of warrants
   
33.03   Allowance of claims
   
33.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
33.07   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
33.20   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.21   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
33.22   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
Purchasing Policies
   
33.35   Purchasing Agency
   
33.36   Purchasing rules
   
33.37   Policies; bids
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.01 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 33.02 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town
Council.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits the town’s officer’s
office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 33.03 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in section §
33.06, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits the town officer’s
office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 33.04 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.06 of this chapter, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be
issued only if the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the town fiscal officer;
      (3)   Certified by the fiscal officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the fiscal officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 33.05 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer of
employee begins, the town may pay the officer or employee the amount of
compensation the officer or employee will earn while on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 33.06 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12)
§ 33.07 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the Motor Vehicle Highway Account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the Local Road and Street Account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the Motor Vehicle
Highway Account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the Local Road and Street Account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 33.20 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following
manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different manner.
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates.
   (B)   The town fiscal officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments.
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
fiscal officer to review and revise their various estimates.
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the fiscal officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
§ 33.21 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The town fiscal officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the fiscal officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 33.22 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may
make further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is
to increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17.
   (B)   The Town Council may, by ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by
ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
PURCHASING POLICIES
§ 33.35 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Council is hereby established as the Purchasing Agency for the
town with all of the powers and duties now and hereafter authorized under I.C.
5-22 for a purchasing agency and as may be hereafter supplemented by ordinances
and/or policies adopted by the Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as a Purchasing Agent of
Council, and is hereby authorized to purchase supplies or services in any
transaction where those supplies or services have an estimated cost of less
than $500 on the open market without inviting or receiving proposals or bids.
   (C)   The Street Commissioner is hereby authorized to purchase supplies or
services in any transaction where those supplies or services have an estimated
cost of less than $100 on the open market without inviting or receiving
proposals or bids.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 4, § 1) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 33.36 PURCHASING RULES.
   (A)   Supplies manufactured in the United States are specified and shall be
purchased for all town purchases unless the Council determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds, by an unreasonable amount, the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (B)   Supplies available from the Department of Corrections as anticipated
in I.C. 5-22-11 and/or the Rehabilitation Center as anticipated in I.C. 5-22-12
shall be purchased from those entities, except as permitted by then applicable
law.
   (C)   A Purchasing Agent may purchase services in whatever manner and on
whatever terms and conditions that Purchasing Agent determines to be reasonable
that are not inconsistent with applicable provisions of state law, town
ordinances or directives from the Council.
   (D)   The Town Council does hereby order the implementation of purchase
orders for any purchase over the sum of $100 with authorization to place the
order to be given by the Clerk-Treasurer or the Town Council.
   (E)   When specifically directed to do so by Council, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall purchase supplies in any transaction where those supplies have an
estimated cost of $500 or more, but less than $50,000, by inviting or receiving
proposals or bids in accordance with state law requirements for purchases from
$50,000 to $150,000 as presently provided by I.C. 5-22-8-3, unless Council
expressly directs such purchase be made on the open market without so inviting
or receiving proposals or bids.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 4, § 2) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 33.37 POLICIES; BIDS.
   (A)   General. All notices of invitation for bids shall be published in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The Purchasing Agent shall schedule the publication
and any statutorily required posting of notice to provide a reasonable amount
of time for preparation and submission of bids. The notice will be published
two times, at least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least
ten days prior to the date the bids will be opened.
   (B)   Request for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The Purchasing Agent shall schedule
the publication and any statutorily required posting of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposals will
be opened.
   (C)   Request for specifications. All notices of request for specifications
shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The Purchasing Agent shall
schedule the publication and any statutorily required posting of notice to
provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
   (D)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the Purchasing Agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means; provided that, the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
   (E)   Financial responsibility. The Purchasing Agent may, and for
solicitations over $100,000 must, require that an offer provide evidence of
financial responsibility. When evidence of financial responsibility is
required, the solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be
acceptable. If a bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of
the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (F)   Receiving offers.
      (1)   Electronic receipt of offers. The Purchasing Agent may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals or
request for specifications only if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The Purchasing Agent receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
      (2)   Protection of offers. The Purchasing Agent shall retain all offers
received in a secure location and manner prior to the date and time at which
offers will be open to prevent premature disclosure.
      (3)   Delay of opening of offers. Should the Town Council make a written
determination that it is in the town’s best interests, offers may be opened
after the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time and place of any such
rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the originally
scheduled opening.
   (G)   Opening of offers.
      (1)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be opened
publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time and
place designated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must be
opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during
the process of negotiation.
      (3)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may
be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
   (H)   Correction and withdrawal of bids.
      (1)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time
at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting
a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently erroneous bid after
the time at which the bids were opened.
      (2)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the
time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours
after the time at which the bids were opened.
   (I)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the Clerk-Treasurer makes a written
determination that it is in the town’s best interests, the Clerk-Treasurer may
cancel a solicitation or reject all offers; provided that, the solicitation
included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
   (J)   Public record status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the bid opening.
   (K)   Public record status of proposals. The Purchasing Agent shall prepare
a register of proposals for each request for proposals issued containing
information concerning the proposals, which register shall be available for
public inspection and copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
   (L)   Adjustment of proposals/contracts.
      (1)   Proposal adjustments. The Purchasing Agent may conduct discussions
with, and best and final offers may be obtained from, responsible offerors
submitting proposals determined by the Purchasing Agent to be reasonably
susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
      (2)   Price adjustments. The Purchasing Agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. Those adjustments may be by
agreement on a fixed price adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent
performance, or by unit price, or by attributable cost, or by such other
standard as the contracting parties may mutually agree, so long as that
agreement does not violate requirements of applicable authority.
      (3)   Time of performance adjustments. The Purchasing Agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of contract
performance.
      (4)   Quantity adjustments. The Purchasing Agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with variations between estimated
quantities in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
      (5)   Retention of unilateral right to order certain contract
adjustments. In purchase contracts, the Purchasing Agent may retain the right
to order changes in the work within the scope of the contract and/or order
temporary work stoppages and/or delays in time of performance, so long as those
retained rights do not violate the requirements of applicable authority.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 4, § 3) (Ord. 2011-1, passed 5-9-2011)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
34.03   Duties of Clerk
   
34.04   Schedule of fines
   
34.05   Right to trial
   
34.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
34.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
34.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
34.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 34.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a Bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk-Treasurer of the
municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
34.01 of this chapter, the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated
the Violations Clerk for purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the Town Council, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 34.04 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
34.01 of this chapter, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code,
a schedule of ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of
violation before the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be
assessed to a violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by, and accounted
for by the Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts.
      (2)   Payment of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in
person, by mail or to an agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
§ 34.05 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   (A)   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to
a trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right
to trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk.
   (B)   Upon an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the
violator the amount prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established
under §
34.04 of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 34.06 DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 34.07 FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 34.08 COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-5 or I.C. 33-37-7-6 when
determining the percentage of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain
courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 34.09 DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C), all sums collected by the
Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be accounted
for and paid to the town as provided by law.
   (B)   If a city or town that has not established a court under I.C. 33-35-
1 or an ordinance violations bureau under I.C. 33-36-2 has entered into an
interlocal agreement described in I.C. 33-36-2-4 with a municipal corporation,
the sums collected by the Violations Clerk that involve the city or town that
has not established a court or an ordinance violations bureau shall be
accounted for and paid as provided in the interlocal agreement.
   (C)   If a county enters into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 33-36-2-
5 with a city or town, the sums collected by the Violations Clerk or city or
town court that involve the county shall be accounted for an paid as provided
in the interlocal agreement.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Nepotism
   
35.02   Membership dues
   
35.03   Payment of promotional expenses
   
35.04   Uniform internal control standards
   
35.05   Variance thresholds
Tort Claims Against Town
   
35.15   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
35.16   Form and service of notice
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
35.30   Majority vote; when required
   
35.31   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
35.32   Date of adoption; publication
   
35.33   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
7-1-2012 known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 1)
   (B)   On 7-1-2012, the town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with a
unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “contracting with
a unit by a relative policy”) and implementation will begin.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 2)
   (C)   The town’s nepotism policy is hereby established effective 7-1-2012 by
adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and including
all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to
time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In addition, a
copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2, Nepotism, in effect on July 1 is attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 3)
   (D)   The town’s contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective 7-1-2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provisions
of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments thereto
which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully
set out herein. In addition, a copy of the I.C. 36-1-21, Nepotism, in effect on
July 1 is attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 4)
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and
that more detailed are necessary.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 5)
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body; and, therefore, without such authority by the majority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 6)
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act; and, therefore, without such authority by the
majority, the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 7)
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 8)
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of either
the nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 9)
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of either the nepotism policy or
the contracting with unit by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed
by law.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 10)
   (K)   (1)   The polices created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
         (b)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
         (c)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section;
or
         (d)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
polices established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
      (2)   Upon any taking of these actions, these policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 11)
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 effective
7-1-2012 are annexed to the ordinance codified herein.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 12)
   (M)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer for the town
for public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(1982 Code, Title I, Ch. 5, § 13)
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012)
§ 35.02 MEMBERSHIP DUES.
   (A)   The Town Board is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the
General Fund or from other funds to provide membership for the town and its
elected and appointed officials in local, regional, state and national
associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as
their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
(1982 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 1)
   (B)   The Town Board is further authorized to budget and appropriate funds
to pay the reasonable expenses of duly-authorized representatives to attend the
meetings and functions of organizations to which the town belongs.
(1982 Code, Title V, Ch. 1, § 2)
(Ord. passed 4-12-1982)
§ 35.03 PAYMENT OF PROMOTIONAL EXPENSES.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Board is authorized to budget and appropriate funds
from the General Fund or from other funds to pay the expenses of or to
reimburse town officials, as the case may be, for expenses incurred in
promoting the best interests of the town.
      (2)   Such expenses may include, but not necessarily be limited to,
rental or meeting places, meals, decorations and expenses incurred in promoting
industrial development and any other expenses of a civic or governmental nature
deemed to be in the best interests of the town.
(1982 Code, Title V, Ch. 2, § 1)
   (B)   The Town Board is further authorized to budget and appropriate funds
to pay the reasonable expenses of duly-authorized representatives to attend
meetings and functions held for the purpose of promoting the best interests of
the town.
(1982 Code, Title V, Ch. 2, § 2)
(Ord. passed 5-10-1982)
§ 35.04 UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   That the above recitations are adopted as findings by the Town Board;
   (B)   It is further ordered and determined that the Town of Leesburg hereby
adopts as policy the internal control standards as set forth by the Indiana
State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and published by the Indiana
State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from time to time;
   (C)   It is further ordained that at the time the annual financial report is
electronically filed, the Clerk Treasurer as fiscal officer of the Town of
Leesburg shall certify in writing that the uniform internal control standards
for Indiana political subdivisions have been adopted and shall certify that the
personnel have been trained as required by law;
   (D)   It is further ordained that the Town Code shall be amended and it is
hereby added to the Leesburg Town Code a new section which shall read as
follows:
                  “INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
The Town of Leesburg adopts as policy the Internal Control Standards as set
forth by the Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards
for Indiana Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and published by
the Indiana State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from
time to time. In order to implement these standards, the Clerk Treasurer shall
certify in writing that personnel as defined in statute have received the
required training. All officers, elected officials and employees are required
to comply with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this policy are
subject to discipline, including but not limited to termination of their
employment.”
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 35.05 VARIANCE THRESHOLDS.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby endorses the Clerk-Treasurer's declaration,
attached to Ord. 2016-1, regarding policy on materiality and a process for
reporting material items.
   (B)   The Town Council calls upon the Clerk-Treasurer and all town
officials, employees, and agents to enforce and comply with the policy on
materiality and process for reporting material items and to report noteworthy
items to the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Council shall monitor, as it deems necessary, compliance with
the policy on materiality and process for reporting material items.
   (D)   The Town Council asks the Clerk-Treasurer to advise the Town Council
of any changes in the policy on materiality and process for reporting material
items.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 4-11-2016)
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 35.15 CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 35.16 FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 35.30 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
§ 35.31 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 35.32 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C); or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Councilmembers, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E), if the town publishes any of its
ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If an
ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect 2 weeks after the publication of the book
or pamphlet. Publication under this division, if authorized by the Town
Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F)) does not apply to a zoning
ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a
comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published 1 time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) of this section.
   (F)   Subject to division (J), the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G), give written notice to the Department of
Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment or repeal of
an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment, or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1).
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F).
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) of this section apply only if
the municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice
that the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance
referred to in division (F) as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4,
or I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 35.33 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk- Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Disconnection for late payment
§ 50.01 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of non-payment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect.
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill.
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for non-payment.
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Private sewage disposal systems
Public, Private and Commercial Sewers
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   General requirements
   
51.17   Sewer line and attachments
   
51.18   Private sewer line
   
51.19   Discharge of wastewater
   
51.20   Substances prohibited
   
51.21   Wastewater strength limits
   
51.22   Authority to reject waste
   
51.23   Industrial non-single-family residential
   
51.24   Accessibility
   
51.25   Permits and inspection
Sewer Rates
   
51.40   Definitions
   
51.41   User classes
   
51.42   Rates and charges
   
51.43   Billing and collection
   
51.44   Study
   
51.45   By-laws and regulations
   
51.46   Inspections; fee
   
51.47   Effective date of rates
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Storm Drainage System, see
Ch. 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   The town does hereby adopt in total all of the terms, conditions and
provisions of Ord. 57-2, as ordained and enacted by the Board of Commissioners
of the county, regulating the installation, construction, maintenance and
operation of private sewage disposal systems, and does hereby declare and
ordain that all of the terms, provisions and conditions set forth and contained
therein shall be and are hereby fully and completely applicable within the
town.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12) (Ord. passed 9-8-1980)
PUBLIC, PRIVATE AND COMMERCIAL SEWERS
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COUNTY. Kosciusko County, Indiana.
   DWELLING. Any house or place used or intended to be used by human occupants
as a place of residence.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the state, county or district.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person duly-authorized by the town through its Board to
inspect and approve the installation of building sewers, private sewer systems
and/or their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer and appurtenances owned and controlled by the town. In
the events the easement described in §
51.16(J) of this chapter is granted to the town, the PUBLIC SEWER shall consist
of sewer piping from the service connection to a grinder pump station, grinder
pump, grinder pump tank, valves and electrical control panel, disconnect switch
and all electrical wiring from the disconnect switch to the electrical control
panel, power and control wiring from the control panel to the grinder pump, PVC
service pipe, sewer piping from the grinder pump station to the collection
system force main, including redundant check and ball valves, and the force
main collection system, including cleanouts, line valves, air release valves,
and manholes. In the event the easement described in §
51.16(J) of this chapter is not granted to the town, the PUBLIC SEWER shall
consist of the redundant check and ball valve and the force main collection
system, including cleanouts, line valves, air release valves and manholes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments within the town and other
areas.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system which is designed to receive sewage and
transport the sewage to a proper sewage treatment system.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe and/or conductor for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer, which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the sewage works of the town or the
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Leesburg.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § I) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008)
§ 51.16 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, including industrial or
commercial businesses, situated within the town and abutting on any street,
alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be
located a public sanitary sewer of the town, is hereby required, at his, her or
their expense, to install toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to
do so; provided that, said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line
and the property owner does not meet the requirements for the exemption from
connection as set forth in I.C. 13-26-5-2.5. It shall be the responsibility of
the property owners to bring the private sewer line to the grinder pump unit,
and it shall be the property owner’s responsibility to pay for the connection
to the grinder pump unit. Failure to connect within 90 days shall be a
violation and subject to §
51.99 of this chapter.
   (B)   With respect to the disposition of existing septic tanks and rain
fields after a property owner shall have connected to the public sewer, the
property owner shall empty the septic tank of its contents, fill with granular
material and disconnect said tank from the house and discontinue usage of the
private system in accordance with County and State Health Department
regulations.
   (C)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a permit from the town. To do otherwise is a violation.
   (D)   No permit shall be furnished until the application has been completed
to the satisfaction of the town.
   (E)   No city, town, county, regional district, public institution, firm,
corporation or officer or employee thereof, or other person, shall install or
contract for the construction of any sewers, sewage treatment works, or other
sewage facilities, designed to collect, convey, treat or otherwise dispose of
any water-carried or liquid waste either of domestic or industrial origin, or
make any material change in any such existing sewage facilities or sewage
treatment of disposal works, until plans and specifications, together with an
engineering report supporting in detail the design set forth in such plans,
shall have been submitted to and have been approved by the County Board of
Health, and the town, so far as it relates to their sanitary features.
   (F)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County and State
Health Officer.
   (G)   The town shall deny any permit if the information on the application
is incomplete, inaccurate or indicates that the provisions of this ordinance
cannot be met.
   (H)   No person without authorization shall enter or maliciously, willfully
or negligently break damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the town sewage works.
   (I)   The grinder pumps and other portions of the public sewer provided by
the town to, or for the use of, each property shall be used by the owner of the
property in accordance with the rules and regulations of the town. If damage is
caused to the pump by reason of the use of the pump in a manner contrary to the
rules and regulations issued by the town, the owner shall be charged the cost
of repair, replacement and/or damage to the pump and shall be liable to the
town for the repayment of such costs.
   (J)   Prior to the construction of any portion of a public sewer on private
property to which a service connection will, can or may be made, the town may
request that the owner of record of the premises to be connected execute an
easement in a form provided by the town granting the town permission to install
inspect, operate, maintain, repair and replace that portion of the connection
is designed to be made. See §
51.24 of this chapter for accessibility.
   (K)   The town will not be responsible for interruptions of services due to
disruption of electrical service, natural calamities, equipment failures or
actions of the system users. It shall be the responsibility of the user that
all connected user equipment remain in good working order so as not to cause
disruption of service to any sewer collection system equipment.
   (L)   Warsaw sewer ordinances shall be applicable only if they are more
restrictive than this chapter.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § II) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 SEWER LINE AND ATTACHMENTS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
principal residential and/or commercial building; except, where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley
court yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear considered as one building sewer.
   (B)   Existing building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and testing by the said town, to meet
all requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM Specification C-
700 extra-strength, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), ASTM D-3034 SDR 35 or other
suitable material approved by the town in writing prior to use. Joints shall be
capable of passing an infiltration test of 200 gallons per inch diameter per
mile of sewer per day on a low-pressure air test. Any part of the building
sewer that is located within ten feet of a well or water service pipe shall be
constructed of ductile iron pipe or PVC Schedule SDR-21 with rubber ring
joints. If the building sewer is installed in filled or unstable ground, the
building sewer shall be suitably supported and need approval from the
Inspector.
   (D)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the town, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches. The slope of such four-inch pipe shall be not less than one-quarter
inch per foot. Refer to A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice. Additionally,
there shall be clean-outs on the service laterals at maximum intervals of 100
feet.
   (E)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by an equipment, facility or pollution control device
approved by the town for conveyance of the private sewage to the public sewer.
   (F)   The town shall deny any permit if the information on the application
is incomplete, inaccurate or indicates that the provisions of this chapter
cannot be met.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § III) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 PRIVATE SEWER LINE.
   (A)   (1)   Before commencement of construction or modification of a private
sewage line the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the town.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the town
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the town.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee of $75 shall be paid to the town at the
time the application is filed. The amount of said fee may be amended from time
to time by separate ordinance of the Town Board.
   (B)   After receiving an order in writing from the town, the owner, agent of
the owner, the occupant or agent of the occupant of the property shall comply
with the provisions of this chapter as set forth in said order and within the
time limit included therein. Said order shall be served on the owner or may be
served on any person who, by contact with the owner, has assumed the duty of
complying with the provisions of an order.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private line in a sanitary
manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (D)   The application for a permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the building where the sewage disposal system is under construction.
The notice should be plainly visible from the public thoroughfare serving this
building.
   (E)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, sump pump or other sources of surface runoff
or ground water to a building sewer or building drain, which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (F)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
town or certified representative before installation.
   (G)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Street, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the court of
the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said town.
   (H)   The building sewer shall be located at least 50 feet from any water
supply well or pump suction line serving a residence; however, sewers
constructed of water works grade cast iron having mechanical or push-type
joints or of waterworks grade pressure type plastic with an SDR rating of 21
having gasketed push-on-type joints may be located within the 50-foot distance,
but not closer than 20 feet to dug and bored wells and not closer than ten feet
to drilled and driven wells or underground pump suction lines or requirements
of Bulletin S.E. 13.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § IV) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by written permit of the said town. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on written approval of the said
town, and the state’s Department of Environmental Management, to a storm sewer
or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the town, that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream,
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming this opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the town will
give written consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes
in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant
and other pertinent factors.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § V) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   The substances prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which, by reason of their nature or
quantity, are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction to cause
fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the operation of the
wastewater utility. This includes any substance with a flashpoint of less than
140°F (60°C) using test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
   (B)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction, to interfere with the operation of the
wastewater utility;
   (C)   Any substance which may cause the wastewater utility’s effluent or
treatment residues, sludges or scums to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse
or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the wastewater utility cause the wastewater utility to be in non-
compliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations
developed under § 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345; any criteria,
guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being
15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., state standards applicable to the sludge management
method being used or regulations for any other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
   (D)   Any substance in a quantity or concentration that, alone or in
conjunction with other discharges, is a cause of a discharge from the
wastewater utility to waters of the state that violates the wastewater
utility’s NPDES permits or increases the magnitude or duration of a violation;
   (E)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process;
   (F)   Any wastewater having a temperature that will inhibit biological
activity in the wastewater treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no
case, wastewater with a temperature that causes the influent of the wastewater
treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
   (G)   Any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, non-contact cooling water and other unpolluted water in any area
served by separated sewers and in any area served by combined sewers where
discharge directly to waters of the state is feasible;
   (H)   Any trucked or hauled waste discharge is prohibited;
   (I)   Used motor vehicle antifreeze, motor oil, brake fluid or transmission
fluid, used hydraulic fluid, oil-based paint and paint thinners if the material
is in a collectable and recyclable quantity or if the discharge would result in
a violation of the oil and grease limitation set forth in this section;
   (J)   Any non-domestic wastewater before the wastewater utility has approved
the discharge;
   (K)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F/65°C;
   (L)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F (0°C) and 150°F (65°C);
   (M)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
   (N)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the town for such materials;
   (O)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the town as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
   (P)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either singly
or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public nuisance
or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for
maintenance and repair, including pollutants which result in the presence of
toxic gases, vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute
worker health and safety problems;
   (Q)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the town in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
   (R)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert, suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
      (3)   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant lead on the sewage treatment
works; and
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
   (S)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, petroleum oil, non-
biodegradable cutting oil, products of mineral oil origin or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas, known or unknown, as such;
   (T)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous substance, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (U)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or greater than 9, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
   (V)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, underground garbage, whole blood, paunch, bone, grass
clippings, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, animal guts or tissues, spent
lime, stone or marble dust, tar, gas, asphalt residues, residues from refining
or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing
wastes, manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, diapers, plastic or paper dishes,
cups, milk containers and the like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
and
   (W)   Any pumpage from holding tanks or septic tanks.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § VI) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 WASTEWATER STRENGTH LIMITS.
   Limitations are as follows.
   (A)   Categorical pretreatment standards. Categorical pretreatment standards
shall be met by all dischargers regulated by such standards unless the locally
established effluent limitations are more stringent.
   (B)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
to the wastewater utility shall be met by all users that are subject to such
requirements and limitations in any instance in which they are more stringent
than either a categorical pretreatment standard or a locally established
effluent limitation.
   (C)   Right of revision. The town reserves the right to amend this section
to provide for more stringent limitations on requirements on discharges to the
sewer system where deemed necessary to comply with the objectives set forth in
division (A) above.
   (D)   Dilution. Unless authorized to do so by an applicable pretreatment
standard or requirement, no user may increase the use of process water or in
any other way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute
for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with any applicable pretreatment
standard or requirement. The town may impose mass limits on users that are
using dilution to meet the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or
in any other case where mass limits are appropriate.
   (E)   Local effluent limitations. Users may not discharge into the sewer
system any wastewater containing concentrations of pollutants greater than the
following limits:
Pollutant Maximum (mg/l, unless noted)
Pollutant                            Maximum (mg/l, unless noted)
Ammonia                              30.0
Arsenic                              0.15
Cadmium                              0.02
Chromium (T)                         3.40
Copper                               0.30
Cyanide (T)                          0.03
Iron                                 To be determined
Lead                                 0.40
Mercury                              0.0006
Molybdenum                           0.15
Nickel                               0.30
Oil and grease (non-petroleum based) 100.0
Oil and grease (petroleum based)     0.0
Selenium                             0.20
Temperature                          150°F
Zinc                                 2.50
 
   (F)   Accidental discharge.
      (1)   Users shall immediately notify the town and the Warsaw wastewater
utility of an upset, spill or other slug load that has a reasonable potential
to cause a violation of any applicable pretreatment standard or requirement.
The notification should provide the following information:
         (a)   The location, date and time of the discharge;
         (b)   The character and volume of the discharged or released material;
and
         (c)   Any containment or corrective actions taken by the users.
      (2)   Within five days after the above described verbal notification has
been made, the user will submit to the town and Warsaw wastewater utility a
written report describing the cause of the discharge, the duration of the
discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar
discharges in the future. This report shall contain the following certification
statement: “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all
attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with
a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and
evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or
persons who manage the system or those persons directly responsible for
gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false information, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violation.”
   (G)   Wastewater slug control plans. At the discretion of the town, users
may be required to develop and submit a wastewater slug control plan (WSCP)
that shall include, at a minimum:
      (1)   A description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   An identification of any stored chemicals and description of the
way the chemicals are stored;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the town of slug load
discharges, including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under §
51.18 of this chapter; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent spills and to minimize their effect when they
occur, including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and
transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site
runoff, worker training, building of containment structures or equipment,
measures for containing pollutants that would be toxic to the town or cause or
contribute to pass through and/or interference, and measures and equipment for
emergency response.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § VII) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 AUTHORITY TO REJECT WASTE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in §
51.21 of this chapter, and which, in the judgment of the town, may have
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the town shall upon written notice:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   (B)   If the town permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the town and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amount, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; all interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the town, and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (D)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by and at the owner’s expense.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § VIII) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 INDUSTRIAL NON-SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   The industrial or non-single-family residential dwelling owner or his
or her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the said
town. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the town.
   (B)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (C)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the town.
   (D)   When required by the town, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible by authorized town
personnel and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans
approved by the town. The manhole shall be installed and maintained by the
owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (E)   All measurement, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the grinder pump unit or appurtenance provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said grinder pump unit or appurtenance. Sampling
shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property. (The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always,
B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24- hour composites of
all outfalls where pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.)
   (F)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § IX) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 ACCESSIBILITY.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly-authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. (The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.)
   (B)   The Superintendent and other duly-authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly- negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly-negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § X) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008)
§ 51.25 PERMITS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The town or its agent shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
at the proper time for purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing necessary to carry out the provisions of this regulation.
   (B)   (1)   Any permits required under this subchapter shall be furnished
only after the completion of the appropriate application form to be provided by
the town.
      (2)   The application forms furnished by the town will set forth the
requirements necessary for obtaining the applicable permit, including the
information to be provided by the applicant and any applicable application fee.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § XI) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008)
SEWER RATES
§ 51.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Leesburg, or any duly authorized
officials acting on its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharged from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. Shall have
the same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis, and to produce discharge to receiving waters that
conform with all related federal, state, and local requirements.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges other than excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. Shall have the same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to the use of public and private sewers.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   TOWN. The Town of Leesburg, Indiana, acting by and through the Town Council.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business, or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a wastewater treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, and the like.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 1) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 2023-1, passed
3-13-2023)
§ 51.41 USER CLASSES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the service provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user
and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of peak requirements, volume, and load. User charges are levied to
defray the cost of operation and maintenance of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purpose of
this subchapter shall be as follows: Class I - Residential, Commercial,
Governmental, Institutional and Industrial.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 2) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 2023-1, passed
3-13-2023)
§ 51.42 RATES AND CHARGES.
   For the use of the service rendered by sewage works, rates and charges shall
be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of real estate, or
building that is connected with the town sanitary system or otherwise
discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids either
directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the Leesburg
Municipal Sewage Works. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt
service costs, and other service charges, which rates and charges shall be
payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount determined as
follows:
   (A)   (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges
as the same is determined by equivalent single-family dwelling units. Sewage
service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period equaling a month).
In any event, the equivalent dwelling unit ("EDU") for any customer shall not
be less than one. The schedule on which said rates and charges shall be
determined is as follows:
 
All Class I Users                Monthly Rate
Billing costs - per monthly bill $3.31
User charge per EDU              $39.30
Debt service charge per EDU      $37.39
 
 EDU Determinants EDU Factors
                                                                                 EDU          EDU
                                                                                 Determinants Factors
Commercial
   Car wash                                                                   440 gdp per  2.5
                                                                                 car wash bay
   Gasoline service station
      With only 2 restrooms                                                400 gdp per  2.27
                                                                                 restroom
      With only unisex restroom                                            600 gdp per  3.41
                                                                                 restroom
   Other commercial                                                           20 gdp per   .11
                                                                                 employee
   Restaurants, drive-ins, bars and organizations with eating and/or drinking 17 gdp per   .10
facilities                                                                       seat
   Retail establishments                                                      20 gdp per   .11
                                                                                 employee
Governmental
   Community center                                                           3 gdp per    .017
                                                                                 seat
   Offices                                                                    20 gdp per   .11
                                                                                 employee
Industrial                                                                       20 gdp per   .11
                                                                                 employee
Institutional
   Churches and other religious organizations                                 3 gdp per    .017
                                                                                 seat
   Schools per pupil enrolled                                                 9 gdp per    .051
                                                                                 pupil
Residential                                                                      176 gdp      1.0
   Apartments/unit                                                            176 gdp      1.0
   Mobile home court/space available for rent                                 176 gdp      1.0
   Single-family residence                                                    176 gdp      1.0
 
      (2)   The monthly rates and charges provided herein shall be applied
throughout the year based upon the maximum sewage service required in any month
in any calendar year. For example, the user charges based upon employment shall
be applied throughout the year based upon the maximum employment of the user
for such single maximum employment month, and such maximum usage shall be
applied through the year.
   (B)   In the event there are multiple structures located on a single family
residential lot containing a residence and a separate structure such as a
garage that contains restroom facilities, the owner of said lot shall be billed
as one single family residence.
   (C)   In the event a lot or parcel of real estate has a multi-use purpose (i
.e., residence and business operating out of home), the owner of said lot or
parcel shall be billed as a single family residence. However, in the event the
business employs eight or more part-time or full-time positions, then the owner
of said lot or parcel of real estate shall be classified as a commercial user
and billed accordingly based on the type of business.
   (D)   In order to produce an amount sufficient to meet the interest on the
revenue bonds and other expenses payable prior to the completion of the work,
after the contract for construction of sewer system has let and the actual work
commenced thereunder, the owners of each and every lot, parcel of real estate,
or building to be connected with the town's sanitary sewage system as a result
of construction of said works shall pay each month 50% of the rates and charges
established above for each such building to be connected. Beginning with the
first month after the sanitary sewers are available for connection and use to
any lot, parcel of real estate, or building, the full rates and charges shall
become effective for such lot, parcel of real estate, or building; but in any
event, said full rates and charges shall become effective no later than
February 1, 2023.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 3) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 2023-1, passed
3-13-2023)
§ 51.43 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   (1)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in
the event payment is not made as herein required.
      (2)   The owners of properties served which are occupied by a tenant or
tenants shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for
the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by such tenant or
tenants, provided that such examination shall be made at the office at which
such records are kept and during the hours that such office is open for
business.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid by the
fifteenth day of the month following receipt of billing are hereby declared to
be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates and charges shall
thereupon attach thereto.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 4) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 2023-1, passed
3-13-2023)
§ 51.44 STUDY.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users of user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation,
following the date on which this subchapter goes into effect. Such study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the cost associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works, and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements debt service requirements, and capital improvements to the
wastewater treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness, equity, and proportionality
of the rates and charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said
studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town or by a firm of
certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers, which firms
shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of officers,
employees, certified public accountants, or engineers as the town shall
determine to be best under the circumstances. The town shall, upon completion
of said study, revise and adjust the rates and charges as necessary in
accordance therewith in order to maintain the proportionality and sufficiency
of the rates.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 5) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 2023-1, passed
3-13-2023)
§ 51.45 BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
town's sewage system, pumping stations, and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage treatment
works, the sewage collection system, and for the regulations, collection, and
rebating and refunding of such rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town's sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works, or to require method affecting
pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
the town or as contained in the EPA General Pretreatment Regulations, 40 CFR
Part 403, and any amendments thereto, or the town's Pretreatment Program Plan.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 6) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 2023-1, passed
3-13-2023)
§ 51.46 INSPECTIONS; FEE.
   (A)   The owner of any lot, parcel of real estate, or building connecting to
the sewage works shall, prior to being permitted to make a connection, pay an
inspection fee in the amount of $25 for each connection.
   (B)   In addition to an inspection fee, the owner of any lot, parcel of real
estate, or building connecting to the sewage works whose property was not
included in the original construction and installation of the works and who has
not paid the monthly rates and charges set forth herein shall pay a connection
charge for each connection to the works in the amount of $1,000 per equivalent
single-family dwelling unit. Connection charges shall also be imposed on all
connections made to future extensions of the works.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 7) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 2023-1, passed
3-13-2023)
§ 51.47 EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES.
   The rates and charges as herein set forth shall become effective once notice
to proceed with construction of the works is given by the town to the
construction contractor.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 3, § 9) (Ord. passed 11-14-2011; Ord. 2023-1, passed
3-13-2023)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 2, § I) (Ord. passed 5-12-2008; Ord. 2024-2, passed
3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 52: STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM
Section
   
52.01   Purpose and intent
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Applicability
   
52.04   Responsibility
   
52.05   Discharge prohibitions
   
52.06   Suspension of MS4 access
   
52.07   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
52.08   Monitoring of discharges
   
52.09   Prevention, control and reduction of storm water pollutants by the use
of best management practices
   
52.10   Watercourse protection
   
52.11   Notification of spills
   
52.12   Notice of violation; appeal
   
52.13   Cost of abatement
   
52.14   Injunctive relief
   
52.15   Violations deemed a public nuisance
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the town by regulating non-storm water
discharges to the storm drainage system, to the maximum extent practicable
permitted by federal and state law. This chapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) by storm water discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the Town Board of
Leesburg, Indiana, designated to enforce this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good house keeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to
prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to storm
water, receiving waters or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also include
treatment practices, operating procedures and practices to control site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
Currently, these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
one acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
52.05 of this chapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system, including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits, as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 12.26(b)(14).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs and other drainage structures.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance
systems and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 2) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003)
§ 52.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system,
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands, unless explicitly exempted by
an authorized enforcement agency.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 3) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003)
§ 52.04 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The town shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the town may be
delegated in writing by the Town Board to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 4)
   (B)   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this
chapter are minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor
imply that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no
contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 6)
(Ord. passed 12-8-2003)
§ 52.05 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including, but not
limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
storm water.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the storm drain system is prohibited, except as described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, non-wet-
land flows, swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one PPM
chlorine), firefighting activities and any other water source not containing
pollutants;
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test; and
         (d)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency; provided that, the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and
regulations; and, provided that, written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance of continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 7) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   General. The town may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
MS4 or to waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or
to waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have his or her MS4
access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the
authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing. A person
commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated
pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the authorized
enforcement agency.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 8) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003)
§ 52.07 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
storm water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
   (B)   Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form
acceptable to the town prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 9) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction
activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The town shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject
to regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access
to representatives of the authorized enforcement agency.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the town ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
      (3)   The town shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the authorized enforcement
agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s storm water
discharge.
      (4)   The town has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the town and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the town access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of this chapter.
A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge
storm water associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the
person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the
permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or
required by this chapter.
      (7)   If the town has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which storm water is discharged, and he or she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 10) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003)
§ 52.09 PREVENTION, CONTROL AND REDUCTION OF STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY THE USE
OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The town will adopt requirements identifying best management practices for
any activity, operation or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution
or contamination of storm water, the storm drain system or waters of the United
States. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall
provide, at his, her or their own expense, reasonable protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal
storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-
structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premise,
which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at said person’s expense, additional structural and non-structural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES
permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated with industrial
activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the
provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a storm water pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the
NPDES permit.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 11) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003)
§ 52.10 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately-owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 12) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system or waters of the United
States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of non- hazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized
enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the town within three business days of the phone
notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent is recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 13) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.12 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the town finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency
may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person.
Such notice may require without limitation:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
         (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   Violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
         (d)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (e)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (2)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 14)
   (B)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of
violation may appeal the determination of the authorized enforcement agency.
The notice of appeal must be received within ten business days from the date of
the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority
or his or her designee shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt
of the notice of appeal. The decision of the municipal authority or their
designee shall be final.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 15)
   (C)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within days of the decision of the municipal
authority upholding the decision of the authorized enforcement agency, then
representatives of the authorized enforcement agency shall enter upon the
subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures
necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be
unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises
to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon
the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 16)
   (D)   Appeal of notice of violation. In lieu of enforcement proceedings,
penalties and remedies authorized by this chapter, the authorized enforcement
agency may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory actions, such as
storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup and
the like.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 19)
(Ord. passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.13 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The
property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the
assessment within 30 days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner
as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by the expiration
of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special
assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for
the amount of the assessment. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation. The
liability shall be paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the
rate of percent per annum shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the
thirtieth day following discovery of the violation.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 17) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003)
§ 52.14 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the authorized
enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 18) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.15 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 20) (Ord. passed 12-8-2003)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2003; Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-11-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Golf carts
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two non-
tandem- wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and that
has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) above of this definition, and when operated by an operator weighing 170
pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in Indiana. The term includes an ALLEY.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines or, if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premise, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter, or an electric personal
assistive mobility device as those terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2-56, I.C. 9-
13-2-77 and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than 3 wheels in contact with
the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. pt. 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm
tractor, an electric bicycle, or a motor driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) OPERATOR means an individual who
operates a vehicle, watercraft, off-road vehicle, or snowmobile.
      (2)   OPERATOR for purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set
forth in 33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. When used in reference to a motor vehicle:
      (1)   A person, other than a lien holder, that:
         (a)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle
manufactured home, mobile home off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
         (b)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a
vehicle, manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft,
through a lease or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
      (2)   OWNER for purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set forth
in 33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below of this definition, that
part of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include the
sidewalk, berm or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm or shoulder is used by
persons riding bicycles or other human-powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. Except as otherwise provided in this section, a device in, upon, or
by which a person or property is, or may be, transported or drawn upon a
highway. The term does not include the following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power.
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks.
      (3)   A wheelchair.
      (4)   An electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
§ 70.02 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definition. The following term shall apply to this section as written
unless context indicates or requires a different meaning:
      GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically
designed and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for
the purpose of playing the game of golf on the golf course.
   (B)   Operation of golf carts.
      (1)   Golf carts may be operated on the streets and highways within the
Town of Leesburg.
      (2)   Golf carts that are operated on the streets and highways of the
Town of Leesburg:
         (a)   May only be operated by an individual 16 years of age of older.
         (b)   Shall display either a slow moving vehicle emblem in accordance
with I.C. 9-21-9-3 or a red or amber flashing lamp in accordance with I.C. 9-
21-9-4 .
         (c)   May only be operated between sunrise and sundown.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to conflict with or
eliminate the operator of a golf cart from compliance with applicable state or
Federal law.
      (4)   Golf carts may not be operated on State Road 15 within the Town
limits except to cross it at any intersection at an angle 90 degrees to State
Road 15.
      (5)   The number of occupants of a golf cart shall be limited to six
persons. The operator and occupants shall be properly seated at all times and
no part of the body of the operator or occupants shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is in operation; provided
however, the operator shall use proper traffic hand signals when required. No
one under the age of two years shall be permitted to be an occupant of a golf
cart.
   (C)   Violations.
      (1)   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of up to
$50 per violation. Each day that the golf cart is operated in violation of this
chapter shall be considered a separate violation for purposes of imposition of
a fine.
      (2)   In the event of a violation by a minor child, the fine shall be
paid by the child's parent or parents, custodial parent, legal guardian or
anyone exercising parental control over the minor child.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 11-11-2019)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic-control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform
and, as far as possible, shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.18 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be, is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device,
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
    Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
Cruising
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Cruising prohibited
   
71.17   Posting of signs
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets, unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
CRUISING
§ 71.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic-control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic-control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department, or other town, county or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.16 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising, as defined in this subchapter, on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic-
control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a passenger in
a vehicle passing the same traffic-control point within the next succeeding
four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.17 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a
no-cruising zone.
   (B)   “No cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end of
any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-cruising
zone.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Short title
   
72.02   Definition
   
72.03   Parking prohibited
   
72.04   Impoundment; release
   
72.05   Temporary parking
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be hereafter known and cited as the “Off-Street Parking
Ordinance”.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 9, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-10-1979)
§ 72.02 DEFINITION.
   MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean, when used in this chapter, any automobile, truck,
trailer, semi-trailer, truck trailer, van, bus, school bus, house car,
motorcycle, moped, minibike or other similar devices.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 9, § 2) (Ord. passed 9-10-1979)
§ 72.03 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle on any
street of the town between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle parked in violation of this chapter is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 9.1, § 1) (Ord. passed 9-10-1979; Ord. passed 8-13-
2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 IMPOUNDMENT; RELEASE.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner and other police
officers of the town to impound any motor vehicle found in violation of this
chapter.
      (2)   Such officer may remove such vehicle or cause it to be removed to
the town garage or to a private garage or place as may be authorized by the
Council of the town, pursuant to a contract with such private garage or place.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 9, § 4)
   (B)   Impoundment at risk of owner. The removal of a motor vehicle pursuant
to this chapter shall be accomplished with reasonable care, but otherwise shall
be at the risk of the owner.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 9, § 5)
   (C)   Expenses to be born by owner and payment prerequisite to release. The
expenses of, and resulting from, the removal and storage of a motor vehicle
pursuant to this chapter shall be borne by the owner and before surrendering
such vehicle, such expenses shall be paid by or for such owner for the use and
benefit of the town; said expenses to be determined by the expense incurred by
the town in the impoundment of said motor vehicle pursuant to this chapter and
any storage costs for storage of such impounded vehicle.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 9, § 6)
   (D)   Release.
      (1)   Vehicles impounded pursuant to this chapter shall be released only
upon order of the Street Commissioner, who is hereby authorized to make such a
release, or by any other such person who may be from time to time authorized by
resolution of the Council of the town to make such a release.
      (2)   In lieu of impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the Street
Commissioner of the town may issue a citation upon the owner or operator or any
motor vehicle parked in violation of this chapter.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 9, § 7)
(Ord. passed 9-10-1979; Ord. passed 12-11-1995)
§ 72.05 TEMPORARY PARKING.
   It shall not be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle on any
street of the town between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. if such person,
or the owner or occupant of the premises in front
of which such motor vehicle is parked, shall have first secured the permission
of the Street Commissioner or other police office of the town to park such
vehicle on the public premises of the town during said hours. Such permission
may be granted for a limited time only, not to exceed two consecutive days.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 9.1, § 2) (Ord. passed 9-10-1979; Ord. passed 12-11-
1995; Ord. passed 8-13-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
    Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 9, § 7) (Ord. passed 9-10-1979; Ord. 2024-5, passed
3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop and yield intersections
SCHEDULE I. STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
Street Location Type of Stop/ Yield 1982 Code Ord. No. Date Passed
Street    Location       Type of Stop/  1982 Code      Ord. No.  Date Passed
                         Yield
          Intersection
          of Canal
          Street and Van
          Buren Street;
         requiring both Stop           Title III, Ch. -; 2017-5 12-11-1995; 9-
          northbound                    11.6                     11-2017
          traffic and
          southbound
          traffic to
          stop
          Intersection
          of Canal
          Street and
          Prairie                       Title III, Ch.           12-11-1995; 9-
         Street;        Stop           11.6           -; 2017-5 11-2017
          requiring
          southbound
          traffic to
          stop
          Intersection
          of Church and
          Wallace
          Streets; a
          stop sign
          erected at the
          northeast
          corner of said                Title III, Ch.
         intersection,  Stop           11.1           -         8-9-1982
          requiring
          northbound
          traffic on
          Wallace Street
          to come to a
          complete stop
          before
          proceeding
          Intersection
          of Harrison
          Street and
          Prairie                       Title III, Ch.           12-11-1995; 9-
         Street;        Stop           11.6           -; 2017-5 11-2017
          requiring
          southbound
          traffic to
          stop
          Intersection
          of Harrison
          Street and
         Plum Street;   Stop           Title III, Ch. -; 2017-5 12-11-1995; 9-
          requiring                     11.6                     11-2017
          northbound
          traffic to
          stop
          Intersection
          of Jefferson
          Street and Van
          Buren Street;
         requiring both Stop           Title III, Ch. -; 2017-5 12-11-1995; 9-
          northbound                    11.6                     11-2017
          traffic and
          southbound
          traffic to
          stop
          Intersection
          of Jefferson
          Street and
          Prairie
          Street;                       Title III, Ch.           12-11-1995; 9-
         requiring both Stop           11.6           -; 2017-5 11-2017
          northbound
          traffic and
          southbound
          traffic to
          stop
          Intersection
          of Jefferson
          Street and
         Church Street; Stop           Title III, Ch. -; 2017-5 12-11-1995; 9-
          requiring                     11.6                     11-2017
          southbound
          traffic to
          stop
          Intersection
          of Jefferson
          Street and
         Plum Street;   Stop           Title III, Ch. -; 2017-5 12-11-1995; 9-
          requiring                     11.6                     11-2017
          northbound
          traffic to
          stop
          Intersection
         of Pearl       Four- way stop Title III, Ch. -         6-15-1976
          Street and                    10
          Prairie Street
          Intersection
          of Pearl
          Street and
          Prairie
          Street;                       Title III, Ch.           12-11-1995; 9-
         requiring both Stop           11.6           -; 2017-5 11-2017
          northbound
          traffic and
          southbound
          traffic to
          stop
          Intersection
          of Pearl
          Street and
         Plum Street;   Stop           Title III, Ch. -; 2017-5 12-11-1995; 9-
          requiring                     11.6                     11-2017
          northbound
          traffic to
          stop
          Intersection
          of Plum Street
          and S.R. 15; a
          stop sign
          shall be
          erected
         requiring      Stop           Title III, Ch. -         12-11-1995
          westbound                     11.7
          traffic on
          Plum Street to
          come to a
          complete stop
          before
          proceeding
          Intersection
          of Prairie
          Street and
          Base Line
          Road; a stop
          sign erected
          at the
          southwest
         corner of said Stop           Title III, Ch. -         5-11-1981
          intersection,                 11
          requiring
          eastbound
          traffic on
          Prairie Street
          to come to a
          complete stop
          before
          proceeding
          Intersection
          of Prairie
          Street and
          S.R. 15; stop
          signs shall be
          erected
          requiring                     Title III, Ch.
         eastbound and  Stop           11.7           -         12-11-1995
          westbound
          traffic on
          Prairie Street
          to come to a
          complete stop
          before
          proceeding
          Intersection
          of Roland
          Avenue and
          School Street;
          stop signs
          erected
          requiring the                 Title III, Ch.
         northbound and Stop           11.2           -         1-13-1986
          southbound
          traffic on
          Roland Avenue
          to come to a
          complete stop
          before
          proceeding
          Intersection
          of Rowland
          Avenue and
          Prairie                       Title III, Ch.           12-11-1995; 9-
         Street;        Stop           11.6           -; 2017-5 11-2017
          requiring
          northbound
          traffic to
          stop
          Intersection
          of School and
          Wallace
          Streets; a
          stop sign
          erected on the
          southwest
          corner of said                Title III, Ch.
         intersection,  Stop           11.1           -         8-9-1982
          requiring
          southbound
          traffic on
          Wallace Street
          to come to a
          complete stop
          before
          proceeding
          Intersection
          of School and
          Brubaker
          Streets;                      Title III, Ch.           1-13-1986; 9-
         requiring      Stop           11.2           -; 2017-5 11-2017
          westbound
          traffic on
          School Street
          to stop
          Intersection
          of School
          Street and
          Base Line
          Road; a stop
          sign erected
          at the
          northeast
         corner of said Stop           Title III, Ch. -         5-11-1981
          intersection,                 11
          requiring
          westbound
          traffic on
          School Street
          to come to a
          complete stop
          before
          proceeding
          Intersection
          of School
          Street and
          S.R. 15 (Main
          Street); a
          stop sign
          erected at the
          southwest
         corner of said Stop           Title III, Ch. -         5-11-1981
          intersection,                 11
          requiring
          westbound
          traffic on
          School Street
          to come to a
          complete stop
          before
          proceeding
          Intersection
         of School      Four- way stop Title III, Ch. -         5-11-1987
          Street and                    11.3
          Rowland Avenue
          Intersection
          of Van Buren
          Street and
          Base Line
          Road; a stop
          sign erected
          at the
          southwest
         corner of said Stop           Title III, Ch. -         5-11-1981
          intersection,                 11
          requiring
          eastbound
          traffic on Van
          Buren Street
          to come to a
          complete stop
          before
          proceeding
          Intersection
         of Van Buren   Four-wa y stop Title III, Ch. -         7-11-1988
          Street and                    11.4
          Pearl Street
          Intersection
          of Van Buren
          Street and
          Harrison
         Street; with   Stop           Title III, Ch. -; 2017-5 7-11-1988; 9-
          traffic on                    11.5                     11-2017
          Harrison
          Street
          required to
          stop
          Intersection
          of Van Buren
          Street and
          S.R. 15; a
          stop sign
          shall be
          erected                       Title III, Ch.
         requiring      Stop           11.7           -         12-11-1995
          westbound
          traffic on Van
          Buren Street
          to come to a
          complete stop
          before
          proceeding
          On the east
          side of the
          railroad
Van Buren tracks;        Stop           Title III, Ch. -; 2017-5 8-9-1982; 9-
Street    requiring                     11.1                     11-2017
          eastbound
          traffic to
          stop
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   PARKS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Abandonment of vehicles
   
90.03   Leaving wrecked, non-operating vehicles on streets
   
90.04   Use of vehicles as storage
   
90.05   Disposition of wrecked, discarded vehicles
   
90.06   Junked vehicles on automobile business establishment
   
90.07   Nuisance
   
90.08   Impounding vehicles
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or sleds and
transport persons or property or pull machinery, and whether currently licensed
or registered or not, and shall include, without limitation, automobile, truck,
trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 8, § 1) (Ord. passed 6-2-1969)
§ 90.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person or persons shall abandon any vehicle within the town. The fact
that the vehicle has been abandoned may be inferred from proof of the fact that
said vehicle has been left outside of a garage or building, and has been left
unattended and has not been moved from its place of parking for a period of 15
consecutive days.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 8, § 2) (Ord. passed 6-2-1969) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 LEAVING WRECKED, NON-OPERATING VEHICLES ON STREET.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, non-operating, wrecked or
junked vehicle on any street or highway within the town.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 8, § 3) (Ord. passed 6-2-1969) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 USE OF VEHICLES AS STORAGE.
   No person shall use any vehicle as a warehouse or storage building other
than a vehicle in which personal property is stored while in transit, or
preparation for transit, or after arrival upon transit and prior to unloading.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 8, § 4) (Ord. passed 6-2-1969) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DISPOSITION OF WRECKED, DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the town, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on
such property longer than 48 hours; and no person shall leave any such vehicle
on any property within the town for a longer time than 48 hours; except that,
this section shall not apply with respect to a vehicle in an enclosed building,
nor with respect to a vehicle situate upon property which is operated as an
automobile sales or service business when necessary or appropriate to the
operation of such business; nor to a vehicle situate in a duly licensed junk
yard; nor to a vehicle stored in a depository maintained for such purpose by
the town.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 8, § 5) (Ord. passed 6-2-1969) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 JUNKED VEHICLES ON AUTOMOBILE BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT.
   No person in charge of or in control of any property which is operated as an
automobile sales or service business shall permit any partially dismantled,
non-operating wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain ungaraged on said
property for a period exceeding 45 days, unless, at the expiration of said
period, such person is in the process of disposing of said vehicle pursuant to
the law of the state pertaining to the sale of abandoned and unclaimed
vehicles.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 8, § 6) (Ord. passed 6-2-1969) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 NUISANCE.
   Any vehicle found under such circumstances that renders the owner of such
vehicle or the person in charge of or control of the property upon which the
same is found in violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and dangerous to the public health and safety. Any person maintaining such
nuisance shall promptly abate the same by placing such vehicle within an
enclosed building or disposing of it according to law.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 8, § 7) (Ord. passed 6-2-1969) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   The Street Commissioner, or any member of the Town Police Department, is
hereby authorized to impound and to remove or have removed any vehicle left at
any place in the town which is so left in violation of this chapter which is a
nuisance or which may appear to have been lost, stolen or which is unclaimed.
Such vehicle may be towed either by employees of the town or by commercial
towing firms and shall then be held in a depository or storage place designated
by the Street Commissioner for a period of 45 days, during which time the owner
thereof may repossess the same by paying all expenses of towing and impoundment
storage. Immediately upon impoundment of a vehicle, the Street Commissioner
shall give written notice of the fact of such impoundment to the owner thereof,
if such owner can be found. If such vehicle is not claimed within 45 days, then
such vehicle shall be disposed of in accordance with the laws of the state
pertaining to the disposal of abandoned and unclaimed vehicles.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 8, § 8) (Ord. passed 6-2-1969; Ord. passed 12-11-
1995)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
    Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 8, § 9) (Ord. passed 6-2-1969; Ord. 2024-6, passed
3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals; sanitation
   
91.03   Animals running at large
Dogs
   
91.15   Prohibited conduct; owner responsible
   
91.16   Running at large prohibited
   
91.17   Dogs in heat; confinement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 91.02 LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
guineas or other farm animals or fowl within 200 feet of any residence, other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having these animals.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is or may be kept to become unsanitary.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any horse, mule, jack,
cow, chickens or other fowls to run at large within the city limits or to
pasture any animals or fowls in the streets or alleys, whether tied, herded or
controlled in any other manner, or permitted to run at large.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 3, § 1)
   (B)   The Street Commissioner may take possession of any animals running at
large and shall cause the same to be taken to some safe and secure place and
fed and cared for. It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to give five
days’ notice by posting advertisements in at least three public places in the
said town requiring the owner or person entitled to the possession of such
animal to pay the costs and expenses of securing and keeping such animal and
that, in default thereof, such animal will be sold at public auction, at a time
and place therein named for the purpose of paying for such expense. The Street
Commissioner shall, at the time and place provided in said notice, sell such
animal at public auction to the highest bidder, and after deducting the expense
of taking and keeping such animal pay the balance into the hands of the Clerk-
Treasurer for the benefit of the owner of such animal. All amounts so turned
over to the Clerk-Treasurer and not claimed by the rightful owner of such
animal or animals within six months from the date of such sale shall be paid
into the General Fund of the town.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 3, § 2)
(Ord. passed 7-10-1939) Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.15 PROHIBITED CONDUCT; OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her dog or dogs so as to prevent the following actions by it
or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passers-by;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of any dogs within the limits of the town is
hereby required to restrain them from running at large, upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, public place or public grounds, and personal property, within the
limits of said town.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 4, § 1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner or keeper of any
dog to permit such dog or dogs to trespass upon the property of any person
within the limits of the town to the annoyance of such person.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 4, § 2)
   (C)   Any vicious or ferocious animal is not be kept in the community,
regardless of whether or not it is on a chain.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 4, § 3)
   (D)   The Street Commissioner or any other police officer is hereby
instructed to strictly enforce each and all of the provisions of this section.
He, she or they are empowered and authorized to arrest any and all persons
found violating any of the provisions of this section. Said Street Commissioner
and other police officers of said town are hereby authorized to take into
custody, and to dispose of, any dog running at large or in violation of this
section, in any manner.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 4, § 4)
(Ord. passed 5-6-1963) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 DOGS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in such manner that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog, except
for planned breeding.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
    Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. passed 7-10-1939; Ord. passed 5-6-1963; Ord. 2024-7, passed 3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Weeds and Refuse
   
92.01   Weeds declared a nuisance
   
92.02   Height of weeds
   
92.03   Refuse declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Removal; notice
   
92.05   Service of notice; method
   
92.06   Abatement of nuisance
   
92.07   Lien; foreclosure
Open Burning
   
92.20   Prohibited
   
92.21   Occasional burning
   
92.22   Recreational fires; camp fires
 
   
92.99   Penalty
WEEDS AND REFUSE
§ 92.01 WEEDS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   Any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other
weeds of a like or similar kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in
the town are hereby declared to be a nuisance. It shall be unlawful to permit
any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 1, § 1) (Ord. passed 4-3-1972) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 HEIGHT OF WEEDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants,
other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow to a
height exceeding 12 inches anywhere in the town.
   (B)   Any such plants or weeds exceeding such height are hereby declared to
be a nuisance.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 4-3-1972) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 REFUSE DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit the dumping of refuse or
junk of any kind, or to allow any such condition to remain or accumulate on any
lot or tract of land in the town, and the allowance of such a condition to
remain upon any lot or tract of land is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, REFUSE includes, but is not limited to,
piles of leaves; grass clippings; weeds and other lawn waste; limbs; branches
and other storm-related waste; scrap lumber and roofing materials; household
furniture and appliances; tires and other automotive waste; empty or partially
full plastic or metal storage containers; or any other pile of junk or debris
which is likely to become a haven for feral cats, dogs, or rodents, or a
breeding ground for insects.
(Ord. passed 7-10-1939; Ord. passed 4-3-1972; Ord. 2022-3, passed 11-14-2022)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 REMOVAL; NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the town designee to serve or cause to be
served a notice in writing on the owner or occupant of any premises upon which
weeds or plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter, or upon which refuse or junk is allowed to accumulate in violation
of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Said notice so served shall demand the abatement of the nuisance
within 30 days from the date of service.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. passed 4-3-1972; Ord. 2022-3, passed
11-14-2022)
§ 92.05 SERVICE OF NOTICE; METHOD.
   Notice of violation of this subchapter shall be made in writing and shall
either be delivered personally to the owner or occupant of the premises or
mailed by certified mail with return receipt requested to the owner or occupant
of the premises.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 1, § 5) (Ord. passed 4-3-1972; Ord. 2022-3, passed
11-14-2022)
§ 92.06 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   If a person so served does not abate the nuisance within the 30 day period,
the town designee, upon approval of the Town Council, may proceed to abate such
nuisance, and the town designee shall keep an account of the expense of the
abatement, including the time expended by the town designee or anyone employed
by him or her for the abatement of such nuisance, and such expense shall be
charged to and paid by such owner or occupant of the land in violation of this
subchapter.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. passed 4-3-1972; Ord. 2022-3, passed
11-14-2022)
§ 92.07 LIEN; FORECLOSURE.
    (A)   Charges for such weed removal or refuse removal shall be a lien upon
the premises. Upon completion of the weed removal or other refuse removal by
the town, through the town designee, the Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall make
a certified statement of the actual cost incurred by the town in said removal;
said statement shall be delivered to the owner of the real estate by the town
designee, or by registered mail, and said owner shall have not more than ten
days after it has been rendered. The Clerk-Treasurer shall file a certified
copy of the statement of said costs in the County Auditor's office, which
statement shall contain a legal description of the premises, the expenses and
costs incurred and the date the weeds were cut or refuse removed, and a notice
that the town claims a lien for said amount. Upon receipt of said statement,
the Auditor of the county shall place the amount claimed on the tax duplicate
against the lands of the landowner affected by such work, and said amount shall
be collected as taxes are collected, and when collected shall be disbursed to
the General Fund of the town.
   (B)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges or refuse
removal shall be sold for non-payment of the same and the proceeds of such sale
shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as in the case of
the foreclosure of statutory liens. The Town Attorney is hereby authorized and
directed to institute such proceedings in the name of the town in any court
having jurisdiction over such matter, against any property for which said bill
has remained unpaid 60 days after it had been rendered.
(Ord. passed 4-3-1972; Ord. 2022-3, passed 11-14-2022)
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.20 PROHIBITED.
   Open burning is hereby prohibited within the town.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 16, § 1) (Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-11-2010) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.21 OCCASIONAL BURNING.
   This subchapter shall not prohibit the occasional burning of charcoal,
propane, natural gas, white gas, Sterno or other customary cooking fuels used
in an outdoor grill or other traditional food cooking devices.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 16, § 2) (Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-11-2010)
§ 92.22 RECREATIONAL FIRES; CAMP FIRES.
   This subchapter shall not prohibit fires used for recreational purposes,
such as campfires; however no campfires are permitted within the town limits
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 16, § 3) (Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-11-2010) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. passed 7-10-1939; Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-11-2010; Ord. 2022-3, passed 11-
14-2022; Ord. 2024-8, passed 3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
Maintenance of Streets and Alleys
   
93.35   Property owners, tenants; duties
   
93.36   Moving buildings or structures over streets
   
93.37   Burning leaves or trash prohibited
   
93.38   Traction engines, tractors and the like; length, weight
   
93.39   Painting streets
   
93.40   Digging, cutting and excavating
Maintenance of Sidewalks
   
93.55   Property owner or occupant; duties
   
93.56   Street Commissioner; duties
   
93.57   Maintenance and repair provisions
 
   
93.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Board, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and other facts
as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit
sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the authorized
town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Board.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without notice to
make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 of this chapter shall be forfeited. Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid
into the appropriate town fund, except the part demanded and paid to the
permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for
restoration services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed
by the town should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer or
other proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due
from the permittee.
§ 93.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Board for approval. When
the specifications are approved, the Town Board shall advertise for proposals
to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in construction and repair
of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to contract therefor, for
a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall
give bond for the faithful performance of the work. The town executive, if
authorized by Town Board, may make separate contracts for the different kinds
of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
way within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting
any fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   No person shall obstruct any sidewalk within the town by parking a
vehicle of any kind thereon,
   (C)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way, or a vehicle is permitted to remain on a sidewalk shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant,
or person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any
street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind as so to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
   (B)   No owner, occupant or person having the care of any building, lot of
land, bordering on any street or sidewalk shall permit or cause yard waste
including, but not limited, grass and leaves, to be placed on any street or
sidewalk.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
MAINTENANCE OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 93.35 PROPERTY OWNERS, TENANTS; DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each property owner and tenant and occupant to
keep the alleys and streets adjacent to the property owned or occupied by him
or her free from trash, refuse, yard waste, ashes and debris of all kinds.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each property owner and tenant and occupant to
keep the limbs of trees projecting over streets, sidewalks and alleys trimmed
in such a manner that the overhanging foliage and branches shall not at any
time be less than 12 feet above the ground or walk, and to keep the shrubbery
trimmed so that it does not overhang the sidewalk or project into the travel
portion of the alleys.
(Ord. passed 7-10-1939; Ord. 2019-2, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 MOVING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES OVER STREETS.
   No building or structure may be moved over or across any street or alley
unless the owner thereof shall have first made written application therefor and
received permission from the Council of the said town, and shall have posted a
bond in a sum not exceeding $1,000, as may be required by the said Council to
fully protect the said town, and the streets, alleys and other improvements
from any damage as the result of moving such building. It shall be the duty of
any person moving a building to protect from damage trees overhanging the
streets and alleys, and to protect the pavement by the use of wide wheels or
planking appropriate to the weight of the structure to be moved.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 2, § 3) (Ord. passed 7-10-1939) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.37 BURNING LEAVES OR TRASH PROHIBITED.
   The placing of leaves or other trash on the pavement and the burning of
leaves or trash on the paved portions of streets is prohibited.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 2, § 4) (Ord. passed 7-10-1939) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.38 TRACTION ENGINES, TRACTORS AND THE LIKE; LENGTH, WEIGHT.
   (A)   The operation of traction engines, tractors or other vehicles with
lugs on the wheels or treads thereof on the paved portion of the streets of the
town is prohibited unless planking is laid upon the streets, or other methods
used to fully protect pavement from damage; and the town shall collect in a
civil action from any person violating this division (A) the amount required to
repair such pavement, in addition to the penalties hereinafter provided for the
violation of the provisions of this division (A).
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 2, § 5)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, driver or operator of any
automobile, truck, trailer or combination of automobile or truck and trailer,
or any other vehicle, which vehicle or combination of vehicles attached
together having an over-all length, including anything attached to or loaded
upon such, vehicle, of more than 19 feet, to park such vehicle or combination
of vehicles attached together on any street in the town in any other manner
than parallel to the curb and adjacent thereto; provided that, nothing herein
contained shall be construed to permit the parking of such vehicles parallel to
the curb in spaces marked or designated for parking at an angle.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 2, § 7)
(Ord. passed 7-10-1939) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.39 PAINTING STREETS.
   The Council and the Town Marshal will cause the streets to be painted in the
business district and at other places where the width of the street permits, to
Indicate the parking of vehicles at an angle of approximately 45 degrees from
the curb. Persons parking vehicles on the streets of said town shall park them
in accordance with the lines indicated. Except where otherwise indicated by the
painted lines upon the pavement, vehicles shall park on the right-hand side of
the street immediately adjacent to and parallel with the curb. Parking of
vehicles upon the streets of the town otherwise than in accordance with the
provisions of this section is prohibited.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 2, § 6) (Ord. passed 7-10-1939) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.40 DIGGING, CUTTING AND EXCAVATING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do, or cause or
permit, any digging, cutting or excavating in any street, alley or public
place, into or through any pavement thereon in the town; except that, a permit
shall first have been secured upon written application to the Council, and a
bond filed or deposit made in an amount determined by the Trustees to be
sufficient, which bond or deposit shall be conditioned for saving the said town
harmless from any loss, cost or damage by reason of such work, and conditioned
that should settling occur within six months of the time such work was
completed, excavations filled and pavement repaired, that the paving shall be
removed, repaired and replaced, at the expense of the person securing such
permit.
(1982 Code, Title III, Ch. 2, § 8) (Ord. passed 7-10-1939) Penalty, see §
93.99
MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS
§ 93.55 PROPERTY OWNER OR OCCUPANT; DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each property owner and the occupant of each
property within the town to provide proper drainage for the sidewalks adjacent
to his or her property, and to keep the sod cut away from such sidewalks a
distance of three inches, unless the walk is of such an elevation above the sod
that proper drainage may be had at all times.
(1982 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 1)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each property owner and the occupant of each
and every building and lot within the town to remove snow from sidewalks
adjacent to his, her or their properties before 9:00 a.m. of each day, and at
such other times as snow shall accumulate in sufficient quantity to make
walking dangerous or difficult, and to keep such walks clear of ice.
(1982 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 2)
(Ord. passed 7-10-1939) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.56 STREET COMMISSIONER; DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to notify any owner or
occupant failing to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter, and
if such owner or occupant should fail or refuse to provide proper drainage
within ten days after such notice or fail or refuse to remove snow or ice
within two hours after such notice, the Street Commissioner shall forthwith
cause such drainage to be provided, or snow or ice to be removed, and the
expense and cost thereof shall be collected from such occupant or owner by
civil action therefor, in addition to the penalties hereinafter provided for
the violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(1982 Code, Title IV, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. passed 7-10-1939; Ord. passed 12-11-
1995)
§ 93.57 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All sidewalks hereinafter constructed or reconstructed in the town
shall be constructed at an elevation of one and one-half inches higher than the
curb in the adjacent street, unless a special permit is issued by the Council
upon application of the property owner showing such construction to be
impractical or inadvisable.
(1982 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 1)
   (B)   Said walks shall be so constructed or reconstructed as to join in a
straight line and on the same elevation with existing walks, unless upon
application showing such construction or reconstruction to be impractical or
inadvisable a special permit has been issued by the Council for such non-
conforming construction.
(1982 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 2)
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to make careful
inspection and examination of all sidewalks within the town at intervals of not
more than 90 days, and to give written notice to the occupants, and to the
owners if their names and addresses can be determined, requiring such walks as
are defective to be repaired within 30 days.
(1982 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 3)
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the owner of each lot to keep the sidewalk
adjacent thereto in repair and to make repairs within 30 days upon receipt of
notice from the Town Marshal.
(1982 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 4)
   (E)   In the event any person being the owner of a lot in the town shall
refuse or neglect to repair or reconstruct a defective sidewalk when notified
so to do in accordance with the provisions of this section, the Street
Commissioner shall advertise for bids for the construct ion or repair of such
sidewalk by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten
days prior to receiving bids therefor, and shall cause such sidewalk to be
repaired or reconstructed by the lowest responsible bidder, and the cost of
such construction, together with the cost of notice and all other necessary
expense shall be collected from such property owner by civil action therefor,
in addition to the penalties hereinafter provided for the violation of the
provisions of this section.
(1982 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 5)
   (F)   All sidewalks constructed pursuant to the provisions of division (E)
above shall be of one course cement concrete, four inches in thickness,
approximately one part cement, two parts sand and four parts gravel, not less
than five sacks of cement to be used in each cubic yard of the mixture; the
gravel and sand to be washed and free from any substance that would injure the
quality of the concrete. Such walks will be struck off in blocks not exceeding
five feet in length to allow for expansion, and shall be finished with a wood
float finish, and constructed, finished and cured in accordance with the
practices of good engineering and workmanship.
(1982 Code, Title IV, Ch. 2, § 6)
(Ord. passed 7-10-1939; Ord. passed 12-11-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
    Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. passed 7-10-1939; Ord. 2024-9, passed 3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS
Section
   
94.01   Hours of operation
   
94.02   Park rules and regulations
   
94.03   Authority of Town Council and designees
   
94.04   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Town Hall. The Town Hall, currently located at 100 E. Van Buren
Street, Leesburg, IN 46538, shall be open to the public, excluding holidays,
Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Additionally, the Town Hall
shall be open to the public on the second Monday of each month from 6:15 p.m.
to 7:45 p.m.
   (B)   Parks. Clover Park, along with any other park or recreation area that
is owned by the town or maintained by the town shall be open for public use on
a year-round basis from sunrise to sunset.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 11-11-2024)
§ 94.02 PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)    Prohibited activities.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be present in a town park
from sunset to sunrise.
      (2)   There shall be no use of alcoholic beverages in any park owned by
the town.
      (3)   No park patron shall perform any act which tends to create a
danger, hazard, or disturbance to other park patrons.
      (4)   No person shall drive any motorized vehicle on any park land,
except upon roads or areas which are designated and approved for such purposes.
Parking of vehicles shall be permitted in designated parking areas only.
      (5)   Use of abusive, upsetting, or threatening language is prohibited.
   (B)   Cleanliness; disposal of trash or debris. It shall be the
responsibility of each individual to maintain cleanliness in the area which
they have used. All trash or debris shall be placed in suitable containers
provided for such use.
   (C)   Property damage; personal injury; theft.
      (1)   The town shall not be responsible for accidents involving property
damage or personal injury resulting from activities in town parks over which
the town has no control.
      (2)   The town shall not be responsible for the theft of any items
belonging to park patrons.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 11-11-2024)
§ 94.03 AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL AND DESIGNEES.
   (A)   The Town Council may temporarily close or curtail activities upon any
park owned by the town when it has been deemed necessary to be in the best
interest of public safety, conduct, health or order.
   (B)   Any person or entity on the premises of a town park who disregards the
orders of a designee from the Town Council may be immediately evicted from the
park.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 11-11-2024)
§ 94.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any individual designated by a majority vote of the Town Council is hereby
authorized to enforce the rules and regulations provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 11-11-2024)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty provided in this chapter, any person or
entity found to be in violation of any of the rules or regulations of this
chapter may be subject to suspension from any park or recreational grounds now
owned by the town or to be owned by the town in the future.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 11-11-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
Specific Businesses and Violations
   
110.20   Liquor permits
   
110.21   Nude and semi-nude acts in commercial enterprises
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business,
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If, for any reason, the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business and, unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep
posted in a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate.
   (B)   Other licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times
and, whenever requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this subchapter may be suspended or revoked for any
of the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this subchapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council.
      (2)   The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within
14 days after notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town
Council shall set the time and place for a hearing and notice for the hearing
shall be given to the person by mail at his or her last known address, at least
ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
SPECIFIC BUSINESSES AND VIOLATIONS
§ 110.20 LIQUOR PERMITS.
   The Town Board consents, for and on behalf of said town, that liquor
retailers permits may hereafter be issued to applicants for premises located
within said town, all in conformity with the laws of the state.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 8) (Ord. passed 3-3-1969)
§ 110.21 NUDE OR SEMI-NUDE ACTS IN COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES.
   (A)   The following acts shall be prohibited and it shall be a violation of
this section for any person maintaining, owning or operating a commercial
establishment located within the corporate limits of the town:
      (1)   To suffer or permit any female person, while on the premises of
said commercial establishment, to expose to the public view that area of the
human female breast at or below the top of the areola thereof;
      (2)   To suffer or permit any female person, while on the premises of
said commercial establishment, to employ any device or covering which is
intended to give the appearance of or simulate such portions of the female
breast as described in division (A)(1) above;
      (3)   To suffer or permit any person, while on the premises of said
commercial establishment, to expose to public view his or her genitals, pubic
area, buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage; and/or
      (4)   To suffer or permit any person, while on the premises of said
commercial establishment, to employ any device or covering which is intended to
give the appearance of or simulate the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or
anal cleft or cleavage.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any female person, while on the premises of a
commercial establishment located within the corporate limits of the town, to
expose to public view that area of the human female breast at or below the top
of the areola thereof or to employ any device or covering which is intended to
give the appearance of or simulate such areas of the female breast as described
herein.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person, while on the
premises of a commercial establishment located within the boundaries of the
town, to expose to public view his or her genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus
or anal cleft or cleavage, or to employ any device or covering which is
intended to give the appearance of or simulate the genitals, pubic area,
buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage.
   (D)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any female person to
breastfeed a child in a commercial establishment located within the boundaries
of the town.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 14) (Ord. passed 1-9-1995; Ord. 2015-4, passed 12-14-
2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
    Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 14) (Ord. passed 1-9-1995; Ord. 2024-10, passed 3-11-
2024)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk- Treasurer. This application shall be signed by the
applicant, if an individual; by all partners, if a partnership; or, by the
president, if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been convicted
of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense and the
penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06 of this chapter. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given
to the person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “licensed
peddler” or “licensed solicitor”, the expiration date of the license and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weather-proof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows: “no solicitors invited”.
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 of this chapter if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “no solicitors invited”, then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
Firearms on Town Property
   
130.01   Prohibition
   
130.02   Signs required
   
130.03   Exemptions
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 130.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the
general public can access the building, appurtenant premises or park. The town
shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity and appropriate location
for other signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant premises or
park.
§ 130.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to persons
who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or federal law
or to any duly authorized local, state or federal law enforcement officer while
on duty.
   (B)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to highways
or public highways owned or administered by the town.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES AND HOUSE TRAILERS
      
152.   SIGNS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   State enforcement statutes adopted by reference
Numbering System for Buildings
   
150.15   Numbers required for all buildings
   
150.16   Numbering base stated
   
150.17   Block numbering designated
   
150.18   Odd-even designation
   
150.19   Block length variations
   
150.20   Directional designation
   
150.21   Vacation and extension numbering procedure
   
150.22   Duty of property owners; compliance
   
150.23   Size and type of numbering
   
150.24   Notices of violation
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.35   Establishment of law; definition; standards
   
150.36   Building Commissioner
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 22-13-2-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference the Indiana Building Code, contained in 675 I.A.C. 13-2.6-
1 et seq., including any future amendments.
§ 150.02 STATE ENFORCEMENT STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference I.C. 36-7-9, pertaining to enforcement of building
standards.
   (B)   The enforcement authority responsible for the administration of the
statutes adopted under this section shall be the town executive, or such other
executive department as may be established or designated by ordinance.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST shall have
the same meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 NUMBERS REQUIRED FOR ALL BUILDINGS.
   All dwelling and business or other buildings situated in said town and
fronting on any public street thereof shall be numbered.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 2, § 1) (Ord. passed 6-6-1977) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 NUMBERING BASE STATED.
   The base or starting point for the numbering of all buildings which shall be
numbered in said town shall be the intersection of Pearl Street and Van Buren
Street in said town; Van Buren Street shall be the east and west base street
and Pearl Street shall be the north and south base street. For the purpose of
this subchapter and for said numbering, each street or part of street in said
town north of said Van Buren Street and running north and south shall have the
word “north” prefixed to its name; and each street or part of street in said
town south of Van Buren Street and running north and south shall have the word
“south” prefixed to its name; each street or part of a street in said town east
of said Pearl Street and running east and west shall have the word “east”
prefixed to its name; each street or part of a street in said town west of said
Pearl Street and running east and west shall have the word “west” prefixed to
its name.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 2, § 2) (Ord. passed 6-6-1977)
§ 150.17 BLOCK NUMBERING DESIGNATED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter and for said numbering the first block or
square on any street in each direction from either of said base streets shall
be numbered 100, and the second block shall be number 200, and from thereon to
the end of said street each consecutive block shall be numbered 100 higher than
the block next nearer to said base street.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 2, § 3) (Ord. passed 6-6-1977)
§ 150.18 ODD-EVEN DESIGNATION.
   (A)   In each block, each 22 feet shall constitute one number. On all
streets and parts of streets lying east of said Pearl Street and running east
and west, the odd numbers shall be on the north side of said streets and the
even numbers on the south side of said streets; and on all streets and parts of
streets lying west of said Pearl Street and running east and west, the odd
numbers shall be on the south side of said streets and the even numbers shall
be on the north side of said Van Buren Street and running north and south the
odd numbers shall be on the west side of said street and the even numbers shall
be on the east side of said street; on all streets and parts of streets lying
south of said Van Buren Street and running north and south the odd numbers
shall be on the east side of said street and the even numbers shall be on the
west side of said street.
   (B)   The first 22 feet in each block nearest the base street shall
constitute number one or number two according to which side of the street the
same is located on, as herein provided, and from thereon to the end of said
block each consecutive 22 feet shall be numbered two numbers higher than the 22
feet next nearest said base street. In each case, in determining the number of
any building, the number of the block in which it is situated, the same being
100 or any multiple thereof, and the number of the 22 feet on which it is
located shall be added together.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 2, § 4) (Ord. passed 6-6-1977)
§ 150.19 BLOCK LENGTH VARIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter and for said numbering, a block on any
street shall be from one intersecting street to the next intersection street,
whether the same be shorter or longer than an ordinary city block, and whether
the said intersecting streets or either of them shall cross said street or only
enter into and not cross the same. If any of such blocks are longer than 1,000
feet then the numbering of each 22 feet shall continue as herein provided until
the next multiple of 100 is reached, from which point the said blocks shall
take the number of the next succeeding multiple of 100 and the numbering of
each 22 feet shall again start as is in the beginning of a block.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 2, § 5) (Ord. passed 6-6-1977)
§ 150.20 DIRECTIONAL DESIGNATION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter and for said numbering, diagonal streets
shall be considered north and south streets or east and west streets as the
case may be, according to whether their course lies nearest north and south or
east and west; those whose course lies nearest north and south shall be
considered north and south streets, and those whose course lies nearest east
and west shall be considered east and west streets. Streets lying at an angle
of 45 degrees shall be considered north and south streets.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 2, § 6) (Ord. passed 6-6-1977)
§ 150.21 VACATION AND EXTENSION NUMBERING PROCEDURE.
   In case of the establishment, extension or vacation of any street or part of
street in said town, the numbering on a part of or whole of said street, as the
case may be, shall be made to conform to this subchapter.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 2, § 7) (Ord. passed 6-6-1977)
§ 150.22 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each owner of any building in said town
fronting on any street thereof to number said building in conformity with this
subchapter within 60 days of the publication of this subchapter.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 2, § 8)
   (B)   Within 30 days after the receipt of a notice by the owner or agent of
any building to be numbered in said town, or in case of a non-resident of said
town, with no agent therein, by the leaving of a copy of said notice upon the
premises to be numbered, it shall be the duty of said owner or agent to place
upon said building the number of said building as designated and required by
this subchapter.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 2, § 11)
(Ord. passed 6-6-1977) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 SIZE AND TYPE OF NUMBERING.
   It shall be the duty of each owner to place in a conspicuous place upon the
outside of the building so owned or controlled by him or her, the number of
said building as specified in this subchapter. The number or number shall be in
a contrasting color to the color of the building immediately surrounding said
numbers, and the figures of said numbers shall be at least three inches high.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 2, § 9) (Ord. passed 6-6-1977)
§ 150.24 NOTICES OF VIOLATION.
   After 60 days have elapsed since the publishing of this subchapter, it shall
be the duty of the town to notify the owner or the agent of the owner of each
building in said town who is in violation of this subchapter. Said notice shall
be in writing and the number of the building shall be specified therein. Said
notice shall be served upon said owner personally or upon said agent
personally, or by leaving a copy thereof at the last and usual place of
residence of said owner or agent, or if any person who is the owner of any
building to be numbered in said town be a non-resident of said town and has no
agent therein, a notice left upon the premises to be numbered shall be deemed a
good and sufficient notice to said non-resident.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 2, § 10) (Ord. passed 6-6-1977)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF LAW; DEFINITION; STANDARDS.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the “Town
of Leesburg Unsafe Building Law”.
   (A)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby adopted by reference as the
town’s “Unsafe Building Ordinance”. All proceedings within the town for the
inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said
law and the provisions of this subchapter. In the event the provisions of this
subchapter conflict with the provisions of the I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 3 6-7-9-
28, then the provisions of the state statute shall not act as a repeal of this
subchapter.
   (B)   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined
after inspection by the Building Commissioner to be unsafe, as defined in this
subchapter, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
   (C)   Wherever in the building regulations of the town or the town’s Unsafe
Building Law, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner, or any other officer of
the town this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of
determining whether the rules and standards established by ordinance have been
complied with; and no such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power
to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance or to enforce ordinance
provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
   (D)   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the town, by adding the following definition.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an UNSAFE
BUILDING; provided that, such conditions or defects exist that life, health,
property or safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (b)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
         (c)   Whenever any portions thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before
such catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damages property;
         (e)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
         (f)   Whenever any portion thereof has cracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
         (g)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of:
            1.   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
            2.   Faulty construction;
            3.   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
            4.   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
            5.   Any other use, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
         (h)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used;
         (i)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle of one-third of the base;
         (j)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member of members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
            1.   An attractive nuisance to children;
            2.   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts; and/or
            3.   A harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons.
         (l)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the town, or of any law or ordinance of this state or county relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings;
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 66% of the:
            1.   Strength;
            2.   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
            3.   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy
in the same location.
         (n)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used
for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Building Commissioner
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (o)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Building
Commissioner to be a fire hazard;
         (p)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public; and/or
         (q)   Whenever any building or structure is in such a condition to
constitute a public nuisance known to the common law or equity jurisprudence.
            1.   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST set forth in
I.C. 36-7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
            2.   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or
demolition of building or other structures shall be performed in a good
workmanlike manner according to the accepted standards and practices in the
trade. The provisions of the rules pertaining to construction, plumbing,
electrical, mechanical and one- and two-family dwelling, promulgated by the
Administrative Building Council of Indiana, shall be considered standard and
acceptable practice for all matters covered by this subchapter or orders issued
pursuant to this subchapter by the Building Commissioner of the town.
            3.   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating
budget of the town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
            4.   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee,
sublessee or occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or
premises or cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter or any order issued by the Building
Commissioner of the town.
            5.   The Building Commissioner of the town is hereby designated the
enforcement authority in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-2.
            6.   The Building Inspector of the town is hereby designated the
hearing authority in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-2.
            7.   The amount of the average processing expense is determined to
be $750 in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-12.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 13, § 1) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 150.36 BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Street Commissioner of the town is hereby appointed as the Building
Commissioner of the town for the purposes of this subchapter.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 13, § 3) (Ord. passed 8-13-1990)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
    Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1977; Ord. passed 8-13-1990; Ord. 2024-11, passed 3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES AND HOUSE TRAILERS
Section
   
151.01   Permit required
   
151.02   Requirements and limitations
   
151.03   Temporary parking permit
   
151.04   Division into additional lots prohibited
   
151.05   Application
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, organization, corporation or entity of any type shall park
within the corporate limits of the town any mobile home or house trailer
without the written permit of the Council of said town, except upon land which
has prior to the effective date of this chapter been commonly used as a mobile
home park, and for which all state licenses and permits are in full force and
effect.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 1)
   (B)   No owner or occupant of any dwelling within the corporate limits of
the town shall park upon his or her land, or suffer to be parked upon his or
her land, any mobile home or house trailer, which is connected to the water,
sewer and/or utility facilities of the dwelling or dwellings so owned or
occupied by such owner, without having obtained the prior written permit of the
Council.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 5)
(Ord. passed 12-12-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS.
   No permit for the parking of any mobile home or house trailer shall be
issued by the Board, except for a temporary permit as hereinafter provided,
unless and until the Board determines that such mobile home or house trailer
shall meet the following requirements and limitations.
   (A)   The mobile home or house trailer shall be at least 14 feet in width or
shall contain a minimum of 840 square feet under one roof.
   (B)   The mobile home or house trailer shall be located on a lot of not less
than 5,000 square feet in size.
   (C)   The mobile home or house trailer shall be connected to its own
separate septic system and shall have its own separate water supply and its own
separate utilities.
   (D)   The tongue or pulling ring for any such mobile home or house trailer
shall be removed and placed beneath said mobile home or house trailer or in
such other place so as to not be visible from any public way.
   (E)   The mobile home or house trailer shall be placed upon a permanent
foundation or cement slab, with its wheels removed, and such slab shall be at
least the same size as the mobile or house trailer and at least three and one-
half inches thick.
   (F)   The mobile home or house trailer shall have a full skirting on all
sides.
   (G)   The mobile home or house trailer shall be tied down in accordance with
the requirements of the state.
   (H)   There shall be provision made for off-street parking for at least two
motor vehicles on the lot in which the mobile home or house trailer is located.
   (I)   In addition to the foregoing requirements and limitations, a storage
shed containing a minimum of 100 square feet and placed on a concrete slab or
foundation at least as large as the storage building shall be placed on the lot
on which the mobile home or house trailer is located.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 2) (Ord. passed 12-12-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 TEMPORARY PARKING PERMIT.
   The Council of the town may grant a temporary parking permit for a mobile
home or house trailer upon any land located within the town if, upon
investigation, the Council finds that good and sufficient sanitary facilities
will exist for said mobile home during said temporary period; provided,
however, that, only one of such temporary permits shall be issued to the owner
of any land within the town each year.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 3) (Ord. passed 12-12-1983)
§ 151.04 DIVISION INTO ADDITIONAL LOTS PROHIBITED.
   No existing lot in the town may be divided into an additional lot or lots
for the purpose of locating a mobile home on any such lots.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 4) (Ord. passed 12-12-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall not apply with respect to any mobile home or house
trailer parked or located within the corporate limits of the town prior to the
passage of this chapter. However, if any such mobile home or house trailer is
removed from the lot in which it is located, this chapter shall apply to any
new or replacement mobile home or house trailer to be located on such lot.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 6) (Ord. passed 12-12-1983)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
    Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 1, § 7) (Ord. passed 12-12-1983; Ord. 2024-12, passed
3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 152: SIGNS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Regulations and intent
   
152.04   Prohibited signs
   
152.05   Sign permits
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly, economic growth
of the business community by regulating and controlling on- and off-premises
signs and to cause the business use of signage to be consistent with the public
convenience and welfare.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 11, § 1) (Ord. passed 6-10-1991)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING FACADE. The portion of any exterior elevation of a building
extended from grade to the top of the parapet wall or eaves and the entire
width of the building elevation, and which may also be referred to as the
BUILDING FACE.
   COPY AREA. The sum of the area of the words or numbers included in the sign
copy, exclusive of pictorials, trademarks or other advertising symbols.
   DISPLAY AREA. The total area upon which sign copy may be placed. In
computing the total DISPLAY AREA of a sign, mathematical formulas for geometric
shapes formed by straight lines drawn closest to the extremities of the sign,
excluding any structural members or embellishments, shall be used.
   SIGN.
      (1)   A structure, including the frame and supports of such containing
any printed text, pictorial representation, emblem or other object, and which
is used to identify, instruct, attract, guide or advertise.
      (2)   Uses of SIGN shall be identified to the major categories as
follows.
         (a)   DEVELOPMENT SIGN. A temporary construction sign denoting the
architect, engineer, contractor, subcontractor, financier or sponsor of a
development and designating the future occupant or use of the development.
         (b)   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign of ten square feet or less and
containing information relative to entrance, exit and distance to a structure,
site or land use. In all instances, a DIRECTIONAL SIGN must be an on-premises
sign.
         (c)   INSTITUTIONAL BULLETIN. A sign of any governmental agency,
religious group, hospital or school, located on the premises and bearing only
the information related to the activities conducted on the premises, persons
involved or other such information.
         (d)   ON-PREMISES IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which identifies or
advertises the profession, land use activity, individual, product or service
occupying or available on the premises.
         (e)   OFF-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign which directs attention to
businesses, products, services or establishments located and which, for the
purposes of this chapter, shall be considered a principal use.
         (f)   PUBLIC INFORMATION SIGN. A sign containing only emergency or
legal notices and regulatory information.
         (g)   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign advertising the fact that the premises
on which it is located is for sale, lease or rent.
         (h)   TEMPORARY SIGN. A display, informational sign, banner or other
advertising device with or without a structural frame, not permanently attached
to a building, structure or the ground, and intended for a limited period of
display, including decorative displays, for holidays or public demonstrations.
      (3)   SIGNS shall be classified according to their structural type as
follows.
         (a)   FACIA SIGN. A single-face sign which is in any manner attached
or affixed to an exterior wall of a building or structure or mounted above or
below a canopy and which projects not more
than 18 inches from and does not extend more than six inches above the parapet
line, eaves or building facade. Individual letters, in addition to the box type
sign, may also be installed as a FACIA SIGN.
         (b)   FLASHING SIGN. An illuminated sign on which the artificial light
is not maintained stationary or constant in intensity or color.
         (c)   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign supported by one or more uprights,
poles, columns or braces placed in or upon the ground surface and not attached
to any building or structure.
         (d)   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign illuminated by gas, electricity or
other artificial lights including reflective or phosphorescent light.
         (e)   MARQUEE OR CANOPY SIGN. A sign attached or applied below a
marquee, canopy, awning or other roof-like structure.
         (f)   MULTI-FACE SIGN. A sign, more than one side of which is visible.
A “V-type” sign shall be considered a MULTI-FACE SIGN; provided, the least
angle of intersection does not exceed 90 degrees.
         (g)   PORTABLE SIGN. A temporary sign.
         (h)   PROJECTING SIGN. A multi-faced sign, end mounted to an exterior
wall of a building or structure and which projects out from the wall more than
18 inches.
         (i)   ROOF-MOUNTED SIGN. A sign erected wholly upon or over a roof of
any building.
         (j)   SINGLE-FACED SIGN. A sign, only one side of which is visible.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 11, § 2) (Ord. passed 6-10-1991)
§ 152.03 REGULATIONS AND INTENT.
   (A)   General. It is recognized that businesses need and have a right to
advertise through the use of sign displays. It is the intent of this chapter to
encourage creative and imaginative design and use of signs in order to create a
more attractive economic and business climate. It is further the intent of this
chapter to foster and improve the economic vitality of the community by
enhancing and protecting the physical appearance of the community. In order to
accomplish this purpose, it is necessary to regulate the size, location,
construction and manner of display of signs as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   All signs shall be constructed, connected, operated and maintained
according to the specifications of the Building and Electrical Codes of the
state.
      (2)   All signs shall be maintained in a good state of repair. Painted
faces or structural members shall be repainted whenever peeling or fading
occurs. Neon tubes, lamps, ballasts and transformers shall be kept in a good
state of repair and in safe condition. The town may order the removal of any
sign which becomes a public hazard due to lack of maintenance or repair.
      (3)   The following provisions shall apply to freestanding on-premises
signs.
         (a)   The sign, pole or structure shall not extend beyond the property
line or into the public right-of-way.
         (b)   Freestanding signs shall be designed so that all framework for
the lateral support of the sign shall be contained within the body of the sign
or within the structure to which it is attached and shall be visible. Exposed
guy wires, chains or other connections shall not be made a permanent part of
the sign.
         (c)   Freestanding signs shall not project higher than the provisions
of the height and area district in which the sign is located or 60 feet,
whichever is less.
      (4)   The following provisions shall apply to marquee or canopy signs.
         (a)   One sign shall be permitted for each entrance.
         (b)   The display area of such signs shall not exceed eight square
feet per sign face; except that, individual letters or symbols painted,
stenciled or otherwise applied to awnings and not exceeding three inches in
height shall not be included in this provision.
         (c)   No sign shall extend beyond the outer edge of the marquee or
roofed structure.
         (d)   There shall be at least an eight-foot six-inch clearance between
the grade of the sidewalk and the lowest point of the sign.
      (5)   The following provisions shall apply to roof-mount signs.
         (a)   The supporting members of roof-mount signs shall appear to be
free of any extra bracing, angle irons, guy wires or cables.
         (b)   Supports shall appear to be an architectural and integral part
of the building.
         (c)   Supporting columns of round, square or shaped steel members may
be erected if required bracing visible to the public is minimized or covered.
         (d)   Roof-mount signs shall not project higher than the provisions of
the height and area district in which the sign is located, or 60 feet,
whichever is less.
         (e)   The backs of roof-mount signs shall be concealed by another
sign, shall be screened by suitable architectural treatment or shall be painted
to blend with the surroundings and kept so painted.
      (6)   Signs may be illuminated by direct or indirect lighting sources;
provided that, the beam from an indirect source shall be effectively concealed
from view, and further provided, may be illuminated only during normal business
hours.
      (7)   Window signs shall not exceed 40% of the window area and shall be
used only to identify and advertise the products and services available on the
premises.
      (8)   Temporary signs shall be permitted; provided, however, that:
         (a)   A temporary sign shall not exceed one-half the display area of a
permitted permanent sign; and
         (b)   Temporary signs shall be for temporary use only and shall not
exceed any of the following:
            1.   A total of 90 days of use, per location, in any one calendar
year;
            2.   More than three intervals of use, per location, in any one
calendar year; and
            3.   Any one single interval of more than 30 days continuous use
per location.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 11, § 3) (Ord. passed 6-10-1991) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Banners, pennants and streamers shall not be permitted, except:
      (1)   Flags and banners of the United States, the state or any other
political entity, religious or fraternal organization; and
      (2)   Banners, pennants and streamers permitted under a temporary sign
permit.
   (B)   Permanent window signs located above the ground floor level in a
building for the purpose of being viewed from outside the building;
   (C)   Portable, folding and similar movable signs shall not be permitted,
except under a temporary sign permit;
   (D)   Signs which are structurally unsafe, as determined by the town;
   (E)   Signs obstructing free ingress and egress from a required exit, or
which prevent light or ventilation as required in local codes and ordinances;
   (F)   Signs which by reason of size, location, content, coloring or
illumination violate municipal and state highway standards;
   (G)   Signs bearing words, phrases, symbols, colors or characteristics which
may mislead, interfere with or confuse traffic; and
   (H)   Signs erected on or attached to any sidewalk, street, treelaw or
highway right-of-way, curb, curbstone, hydrant, lamppost, tree, barricade,
temporary walkway, telephone, telegraph or electric light pole, other utility
pole, public fence or on a fixture of the fire alarm or police system, except
public information signs.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 11, § 4) (Ord. passed 6-10-1991) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 SIGN PERMITS.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no sign shall be erected
within the town limits without the written permit of the Council of said town,
which permit will be issued upon written application showing such proposed sign
to be in compliance with this chapter. Every such application for a sign permit
shall be accompanied by a picture of the proposed sign and a site plan showing
the location of the proposed sign.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 11, § 5) (Ord. passed 6-10-1991) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
    Any person, firm, corporation or entity of any kind who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code.
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 11, § 6) (Ord. passed 6-10-1991; Ord. 2024-13, passed
3-11-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   VACATIONS
      
III.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   IMPROVEMENTS; BONDS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
-    4-7-   Annexing 6.45 acres of land into the corporate area of the town (Rowland’s
     1969   Subdivision and a tract east)
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 3)
-    4-7-   Annexing 2.95 acres of land into the corporate area of the town (Brubaker’s
     1969   Subdivision)
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 4)
-    4-7-   Annexing a part of the Western Addition into the corporate area of the town
     1969
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 5)
-    5-2-   Annexing 2.57 acres of land into the corporate area of the town (beginning in
     1977   the northeast quarter of Section 8, Township 33 North, Range 6 East)
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 6)
     8-10-  Annexing 2.007 acres of land into the corporate area of the town (lying in
-    1981   the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 8, Township 33
            North, Range 6 East)
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 7)
-    5-13-  Annexing 5.29 acres of land into the corporate area of the town (part of the
     1985   west half of Section 8, Township 33 North, Range 6 East)
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 10)
           
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating a non-existent platted 16.5-foot alleyway
-        4-16-1984   (located 203.28 feet east of the northwest corner of
                     partitioned Lot #10 on Prairie Street)
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 9)
-        6-9-2003    Vacating a portion of School Street
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 9.1)
                     Vacating an alleyway (between Lot #117 and a tract of
-        11-12-2012  ground presently owned by Farmers State Bank between Main
                     and Hickory Streets)
(1982 Code, Title II, Ch. 9.2)
                     Vacating a public way found on Church Street from the
2017-2   3-13-2017   intersection of Church Street and Pearl Street to the
                     intersection of Church Street and Donna Street in the
                     town.
                     Vacating the east 55 feet of Lot #63 in the original plat
2018-1   8-13-2018   of the town, as recorded in plat Book 1, page 112 in the
                     Office of the Recorder of Kosciusko County, Indiana.
                     Vacating a public way commencing at the northeast corner
                     of Lot 90 (as reflected on Blain's Second Addition, Plat
                     Book 1, page 137), then south the entire distance of Lot
                     90 to the southeast corner of Lot 90, then east 16 and
2022-1   1-10-2022   one-half feet to the southwest corner of Lot 93 (as
                     reflected on Blain's Second Addition, Plat Book 1, page
                     137), then north until reaching the northwest corner of
                     Lot 93, then west 16 and one-half feet to the point of
                     beginning.
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        9-14-1981   Granting a community antenna television system franchise
                     to Condor Cable of Indiana
(1982 Code, Title IV, Ch. 3)
-        5-12-2008   Authorizing a sanitary sewage treatment agreement with the
                     City of Warsaw
(1982 Code, Title VI, Ch. 1)
                    
 
TABLE IV: IMPROVEMENTS; BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        11-13-2006  Authorizing certain improvements for the sewage works
                     system; issuing revenue bonds and notes
(1982 Code, Title IV, Ch. 4)
                    
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1982 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                             Code Section
1-1-1-5                                10.04
1-1-1-7                                10.12
1-1-1-8                                10.06
1-1-4-5                                10.05
1-1-5-1                                10.11
1-1-6-1                                10.08
3-10-6                                 32.02
3-10-7                                 32.02
3-13-9-3                               32.07
5-2-1-9                                32.21,
                                       32.24
5-3-1                                  33.37,
                                       35.32
5-11-1-9(b)                            32.04
5-11-10-1.6                            33.04
5-11-10-2                              33.03
5-14-1.5                               31.15
5-14-1.5-3.5                           31.19
5-14-1.5-3.6                           31.19
5-14-1.5-4(a)                          31.18
5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c)                  31.19
5-14-1.5-6.1                           31.16
5-14-3-3                               31.16
5-14-3-4(b)(12)                        31.16
5-22                                   33.35
5-22-8-3                               33.36
5-22-11                                33.36
5-22-12                                33.36
6-1.1-17                               33.20,
                                       33.22
6-1.1-17-3                             33.20
8-1.5-3-4(d)                           50.01
8-14-1                                 33.07
8-14-2                                 33.07
8-22-2                                 31.16
8-22-3                                 31.16
9-13-2-6                               70.01
9-13-2-47                              70.01
9-13-2-49.3                            70.01
9-13-2-56                              70.01
9-13-2-73                              70.01
9-13-2-77                              70.01
9-13-2-84                              70.01
9-13-2-105(a) and (b)                  70.01
9-13-2-108                             70.01
9-13-2-118                             70.01
9-13-2-121(a)                          70.01
9-13-2-155                             70.01
9-13-2-157                             70.01
9-13-2-178                             70.01
9-13-2-196(a)                          70.01
9-18.1-14.5                            70.01
9-21-1-3                               Ch. 71
9-21-5-6                               Ch. 71
9-21-9-3                               70.02
9-21-9-4                               70.02
9-21-12-13                             70.01
9-21-20-1                              70.01
9-21-20-2                              70.01
9-21-20-3                              70.01
13-22                                  35.32
13-23                                  35.32
13-24                                  35.32
13-25-4                                35.32
13-25-5                                35.32
13-25-5-8.5(f)                         35.32
13-26-5-2.5                            51.16
16-18-2-110                            70.01
16-22-8                                70.01
16-34.5-1-2                            31.16
20-29-6-7                              31.16
22-13-2-3                              150.01
25                                     31.16
25-37-1-11                             Ch. 111
33-35-1                                34.09
33-35-3-1                              32.03
33-35-3-2                              32.03
33-36-2-1                              34.01,
                                       34.02
33-36-2-2                              34.02
33-36-2-3                              34.03
33-36-2-4                              34.09
33-36-2-5                              34.09
33-36-3                                34.03
33-36-3-1                              34.04
33-36-3-2                              34.05
33-36-3-3                              34.06
33-36-3-5                              34.07
33-36-3-7                              34.09
33-37                                  34.08
33-37-4                                34.08
33-37-7-5                              34.08
33-37-7-6                              34.08
34-13-3-1 et seq.                      35.15,
                                       35.16
34-13-3-12                             35.16
35-47-5-13(a)                          32.25
36-1-7                                 32.07
36-1-10                                31.16
36-1-11                                31.16
36-1-20.2                              35.01
36-1-21                                35.01
36-5-2-3(a)                            31.01
36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) 31.01
36-5-2-4.1                             35.32
36-5-2-4.2                             35.31
36-5-2-6                               31.02
36-5-2-7                               31.04
36-5-2-8                               31.21
36-5-2-9                               31.03
36-5-2-9.2                             31.20
36-5-2-9.4(a)                          35.30
36-5-2-9.4(b)                          35.31
36-5-2-9.6                             35.30
36-5-2-9.8                             35.31
36-5-2-10                              35.32
36-5-2-10.2                            35.33
36-5-3-3                               33.20
36-5-3-4                               33.20
36-5-3-5                               33.22
36-5-4-2                               33.01
36-5-4-3                               33.02
36-5-4-4                               33.03
36-5-4-6                               33.04
36-5-4-7                               33.05
36-5-4-12                              33.06
36-5-4-13(b)                           33.07
36-5-6-2                               32.03
36-5-6-3(a)                            32.01
36-5-6-3(b)                            32.02
36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or (f)           32.02
36-5-6-4                               32.02
36-5-6-5                               32.03
36-5-6-5.1                             32.05
36-5-6-6                               32.03
36-5-6-7                               32.04
36-5-6-8                               32.04
36-5-6-9                               32.07
36-5-6.5                               32.03
36-5-7-2                               32.20
36-5-7-3                               32.21
36-5-7-4                               32.22
36-5-7-5                               32.23
36-5-7-6                               32.24
36-5-7-7                               32.25
36-7                                   35.31,
                                       35.32
36-7-9                                 150.02,
                                       150.35
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28             150.35
36-7-9-2                               150.02,
                                       150.35
36-7-9-3                               150.02
36-7-9-4                               150.35
36-7-9-12                              150.35
36-7-9-14                              150.35
36-8                                   32.21,
                                       32.24
                                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1982 CODE
1982 Code 2016 Code
1982 Code                 2016 Code
Title I, Ch. 2            30.02
Title I, Ch. 3            32.06
Title I, Ch. 4, § 1      33.35
Title I, Ch. 4, § 2      33.36
Title I, Ch. 4, § 3      33.37
Title I, Ch. 5, § 1      35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 2      35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 3      35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 4      35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 5      35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 6      35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 7      35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 8      35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 9      35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 10     35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 11     35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 12     35.01
Title I, Ch. 5, § 13     35.01
Title II, Ch. 1, § 1     151.01
Title II, Ch. 1, § 2     151.02
Title II, Ch. 1, § 3     151.03
Title II, Ch. 1, § 4     151.04
Title II, Ch. 1, § 5     151.01
Title II, Ch. 1, § 6     151.05
Title II, Ch. 1, § 7     151.99
Title II, Ch. 2, § 1     150.15
Title II, Ch. 2, § 2     150.16
Title II, Ch. 2, § 3     150.17
Title II, Ch. 2, § 4     150.18
Title II, Ch. 2, § 5     150.19
Title II, Ch. 2, § 6     150.20
Title II, Ch. 2, § 7     150.21
Title II, Ch. 2, § 8     150.22
Title II, Ch. 2, § 9     150.23
Title II, Ch. 2, § 10    150.24
Title II, Ch. 2, § 11    150.22
Title II, Ch. 3           TSO Table I
Title II, Ch. 4           TSO Table I
Title II, Ch. 5           TSO Table I
Title II, Ch. 6           TSO Table I
Title II, Ch. 7           TSO Table I
Title II, Ch. 8           110.20
Title II, Ch. 9           TSO Table II
Title II, Ch. 9.1         TSO Table II
Title II, Ch. 9.2         TSO Table II
Title II, Ch. 10          TSO Table I
Title II, Ch. 11, § 1    152.01
Title II, Ch. 11, § 2    152.02
Title II, Ch. 11, § 3    152.03
Title II, Ch. 11, § 4    152.04
Title II, Ch. 11, § 5    152.05
Title II, Ch. 11, § 6    152.99
Title II, Ch. 13, § 1    150.35
Title II, Ch. 13, § 3    150.36
Title II, Ch. 14          110.21,
                          110.99
Title II, Ch. 16, § 1    92.20
Title II, Ch. 16, § 2    92.21
Title II, Ch. 16, § 3    92.22
Title III, Ch. 1, § 1    92.01
Title III, Ch. 1, § 2    92.02
Title III, Ch. 1, § 4    92.04
Title III, Ch. 1, § 5    92.05
Title III, Ch. 1, § 6    92.06
Title III, Ch. 2, § 3    93.36
Title III, Ch. 2, § 4    93.37
Title III, Ch. 2, § 5    93.38
Title III, Ch. 2, § 6    93.38
Title III, Ch. 2, § 7    93.39
Title III, Ch. 2, § 8    93.40
Title III, Ch. 3, § 1    91.03
Title III, Ch. 3, § 2    91.03
Title III, Ch. 4, § 1    91.16
Title III, Ch. 4, § 2    91.16
Title III, Ch. 4, § 3    91.16
Title III, Ch. 4, § 4    91.16
Title III, Ch. 8, § 1    90.01
Title III, Ch. 8, § 2    90.02
Title III, Ch. 8, § 3    90.03
Title III, Ch. 8, § 4    90.04
Title III, Ch. 8, § 5    90.05
Title III, Ch. 8, § 6    90.06
Title III, Ch. 8, § 7    90.07
Title III, Ch. 8, § 8    90.08
Title III, Ch. 8, § 9    90.99
Title III, Ch. 9, § 1    72.01
Title III, Ch. 9, § 2    72.02
Title III, Ch. 9, § 3    72.04
Title III, Ch. 9, § 4    72.04
Title III, Ch. 9, § 5    72.04
Title III, Ch. 9, § 6    72.04
Title III, Ch. 9, § 7    72.99
Title III, Ch. 9.1, § 1  72.03
Title III, Ch. 9.1, § 2  72.05
Title III, Ch. 10         Ch. 73 Schd. I
Title III, Ch. 11         Ch. 73 Schd. I
Title III, Ch. 11.1       Ch. 73 Schd. I
Title III, Ch. 11.2       Ch. 73 Schd. I
Title III, Ch. 11.3       Ch. 73 Schd. I
Title III, Ch. 11.4       Ch. 73 Schd. I
Title III, Ch. 11.5       Ch. 73 Schd. I
Title III, Ch. 11.6       Ch. 73 Schd. I
Title III, Ch. 11.7       Ch. 73 Schd. I
Title III, Ch. 12         51.01
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1 52.01
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 2 52.02
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 3 52.03
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 4 52.04
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 6 52.04
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 7 52.05
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 8 52.06
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 9 52.07
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1052.08
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1152.09
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1252.10
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1352.11
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1452.12
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1552.12
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1652.12
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1752.13
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1852.14
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 1952.12
Title III, Ch. 12.1, § 2052.15
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 1     93.55
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 2     93.55
Title IV, Ch. 1, § 3     93.56
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 1     93.57
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 2     93.57
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 3     93.57
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 4     93.57
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 5     93.57
Title IV, Ch. 2, § 6     93.57
Title IV, Ch. 3           TSO Table III
Title IV, Ch. 4           TSO Table IV
Title V, Ch. 1, § 1      35.02
Title V, Ch. 1, § 2      35.02
Title V, Ch. 2, § 1      35.03
Title V, Ch. 2, § 2      35.03
Title VI, Ch. 1           TSO Table III
Title VI, Ch. 2, § I     51.15
Title VI, Ch. 2, § II    51.16
Title VI, Ch. 2, § III   51.17
Title VI, Ch. 2, § IV    51.18
Title VI, Ch. 2, § V     51.19
Title VI, Ch. 2, § VI    51.20
Title VI, Ch. 2, § VII   51.21
Title VI, Ch. 2, § VIII  51.22
Title VI, Ch. 2, § IX    51.23
Title VI, Ch. 2, § X     51.24
Title VI, Ch. 2, § XI    51.25
Title VI, Ch. 2, § XII   51.99
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 1     51.40
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 2     51.41
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 3     51.42
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 4     51.43
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 5     51.44
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 6     51.45
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 7     51.46
Title VI, Ch. 3, § 9     51.47
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     91.03,
                     91.99,
                     92.03,
                     92.99,
-        7-10-1939   93.35—
                     93.40,
                     93.55—
                     93.57,
                     93.99
-        5-6-1963    91.16,
                     91.99
-        3-3-1969    110.20
-        4-7-1969    TSO Table I
                     90.01—
-        6-2-1969    90.08,
                     90.99
-        4-3-1972    92.01—
                     92.07
-        6-15-1976   Ch. 73 Schd. I
-        5-2-1977    TSO Table I
                     150.15—
-        6-6-1977    150.24,
                     150.99
                     72.01—
-        9-10-1979   72.05,
                     72.99
-        9-8-1980    51.01
-        5-11-1981   Ch. 73 Schd. I
-        8-10-1981   TSO Table I
-        9-14-1981   TSO Table III
-        4-12-1982   35.02
-        5-10-1982   35.03
-        8-9-1982    Ch. 73 Schd. I
-        3-14-1983   30.02
                     151.01—
-        12-12-1983  151.05,
                     151.99
-        4-16-1984   TSO Table II
-        5-13-1985   32.06,
                     TSO Table I
-        1-13-1986   Ch. 73 Schd. I
-        5-11-1987   Ch. 73 Schd. I
-        7-11-1988   Ch. 73 Schd. I
                     150.35,
-        8-13-1990   150.36,
                     150.99
                     152.01—
-        6-10-1991   152.05,
                     152.99
-        1-9-1995    110.21,
                     110.99
                     72.04,
                     72.05,
-        12-11-1995  90.08,
                     93.56,
                     93.57,
                     Ch. 73 Schd. I
-        6-9-2003    TSO Table II
                     52.01—
-        12-8-2003   52.15,
                     52.99
-        11-13-2006  TSO Table IV
                     51.15—
-        5-12-2008   51.25,
                     51.99,
                     TSO Table III
                     92.20—
2010-3   10-11-2010  92.22,
                     92.99
2011-1   5-9-2011    33.35—
                     33.37
-        11-14-2011  51.40—
                     51.47
-        6-11-2012   35.01
-        8-13-2012   72.03,
                     72.05
-        11-12-2012  TSO Table II
-        12-9-2013   10.99
2014-2   10-13-2014  10.99
2015-3   12-14-2015  30.02
2015-4   12-14-2015  110.21
2016-1   4-11-2016   35.05
2016-2   8-8-2016    35.04
2017-2   3-13-2017   TSO Table II
2017-5   9-11-2017   Ch. 73, Sch. I
2018-1   8-13-2018   TSO Table II
                     93.21,
2019-2   4-8-2019    93.22,
                     93.35
2019-3   4-8-2019    10.99
2019-5   11-11-2019  70.02
2022-1   1-10-2022   TSO Table II
                     92.03—
2022-3   11-14-2022  92.07,
                     92.99
2023-1   3-13-2023   51.40—
                     51.47
2024-2   3-11-2024   51.99
2024-3   3-11-2024   52.99
2024-4   3-11-2024   70.99
2024-5   3-11-2024   72.99
2024-6   3-11-2024   90.99
2024-7   3-11-2024   91.99
2024-8   3-11-2024   92.99
2024-9   3-11-2024   93.99
2024-10  3-11-2024   110.99
2024-11  3-11-2024   150.99
2024-12  3-11-2024   151.99
2024-13  3-11-2024   152.99
                     94.01—
2024-15  11-11-2024  94.04,
                     94.99
                    
 
