LEO-CEDARVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-01, passed 2-6-2024
State legislation current through 2023 A.L.S. #3
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.17   Ordinance enforcement
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Leo-
Cedarville Town Code”, for which designation “Code of Ordinances”, “Codified
Ordinances”, or “Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Allen County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. Leo-Cedarville, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable, as provided in division (B) of
this section, does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to
that chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published before and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §
     )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other enforcement provisions specifically set forth in
the code of ordinances, the Town Community Resource Officer or other officer of
the Allen County Sheriffs Department may issue citations for violations of Town
Ordinances.
   (B)   All citations issued under proper authority by the Town Community
Resource Officer or other member of the Allen County Sheriffs Department may be
adjudicated and enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In addition, the Town Manager may direct legal counsel to initiate
legal proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction in order to enforce a
violation of any town ordinance.
   (D)   Enforcement as provided in this section shall be an alternative to any
specific enforcement provisions set forth in any specific ordinance or
otherwise set forth in this code.
   (E)   The civil penalty schedule set out in division (J) below specifies the
penalties that shall be assessed for violations of the code sections specified
in the schedule. The penalties set forth in the schedule amend all specific or
general penalty sections of the town municipal code only as they relate to the
specific offenses set out in division (J) below. Otherwise, this section does
not amend any penalty section of the town municipal code.
   (F)   This section shall further amend all specific or general sections of
the town municipal code that relate to the procedure for enforcing any
ordinance or code section covered by this section to the extent that said
sections conflict with this section or mandate a different enforcement
procedure. Otherwise, this section does not amend any enforcement sections of
the town municipal code.
   (G)   Every day, or part of a day, that a violation is committed or
continues in existence is a separate violation for which civil penalties may be
imposed.
   (H)   For the purposes of the civil penalty schedule, a violation of a code
section by an individual that occurs more than three years after the individual
was last adjudged to have violated the same section shall be considered a
"First Offense."
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision herein, any person adjudged to
have violated any provision of the town municipal code or uncodified ordinance
(s) shall also be required to pay the cost of the prosecution, including court
costs, attorney fees, and any actual damages sustained by the town by virtue of
such violation.
   (J)   Civil penalty schedule:
Code Section Subject Matter of Code First Offense Second Offense Third Offense
             Section
Code Section    Subject Matter of First Offense Second Offense Third Offense
                Code Section
                Parking in yard,
71.01           over curb, or     $50           $100           $150
                over sidewalk
Chap. 73, Schd. Speeding on local $50           $100           $150
I               roads
                Failure to obey
70.02           traffic-control   $50           $100           $150
                device
                Proper care,
90.01           food, and shelter $50           $100           $150
                for animals
90.02           Abandoning        $50           $100           $150
                animals
90.03           Failure to remove $50           $100           $150
                pet excrement
90.04           Unleashed animal  $50           $100           $150
90.05           Animals confined  $50           $100           $150
                when in heat
90.06           Barking/          $50           $100           $150
                disturbance
                Beating or
90.07           inhumane          $50           $100           $150
                treatment of
                animal
90.09           Dangerous animals $50           $100           $150
90.10           Wild or exotic    $50           $100           $150
                animals
90.12           Rabies            $50           $100           $150
                vaccinations
91.01           Abandoned         Cost of removal and storage plus:
                vehicles          $50           $100           $150
                Parking in alley
70.18           or obstructing    $50           $100           $150
                driveway
                Parking in a no
Ch. 74, Schd. I parking zone or   $50           $100           $150
                school zone
71.05           Temporary parking $50           $100           $150
                restrictions
                Parking
71.06           restrictions by   $50           $100           $150
                district
70.17           Speeding in alley $50           $100           $150
92.01           Offensive         $50           $100           $150
                personal behavior
                Golf cart
                regulation (age/
                license,
                insurance,
72.15 -         lights/time of
72.23           operation, place  $50           $100           $150
                of operation,
                occupants, travel
                rules, slow
                moving vehicles
                signs)
92.15 -         Environmental     Enforced per ordinance with following fines:
92.22           nuisances         $50           $100           $150
92.02           Noise             $50           $100           $150
                disturbances
92.35           Public nuisance   $50           $100           $150
                Abuse or          Cost of repair or replacement as needed and:
93.03           mutilation of     $50           $100           $150
                public tree
94.01           Littering         $50           $100           $150
                Failure to remove
95.01           snow or           $50           $100           $150
                obstruction on
                sidewalk
96.03 -         Park regulations  $50           $100           $150
96.15
92.50 -         Open fires        $50           $100           $150
92.54           generally
96.27 -         Grabill Road      $50           $100           $150
96.32           Recreational Path
 
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-15-2022; Ord. 2022-11, passed 9-6-2022; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 2-6-2024)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violation Bureau; fee schedule, see
32.04
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND DEPARTMENTS
      
33.   TOWN POLICIES
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Members, terms, and duties
   
30.02   Meetings; notice
   
30.03   Executive sessions
   
30.04   Electronic meetings policy
Rules of Order; Ordinances
   
30.15   Rules of order
   
30.16   Decorum and debate
   
30.17   Motions
   
30.18   Questions
   
30.19   Reconsideration
   
30.20   Divisions
   
30.21   Introduction
   
30.22   Quorum
   
30.23   Determination of results of voting
   
30.24   Roll call votes
   
30.25   Recordation; proof of recordation
   
30.26   Effective date
   
30.27   Public records
   
30.28   Ordinance classes
Town Council Elections
   
30.45   Legislative authority
   
30.46   Terms of members
   
30.47   Definition
   
30.48   Town elections not coinciding with general elections
   
30.49   Adoption of ordinance under I.C. 3-10-6-2.5
   
30.50   Term and time of election of municipal officers; requirement; repeal
   
30.51   Conduct of elections
   
30.52   Dates of elections; when election not required
   
30.53   Town Election Board
   
30.54   Deputy Election Commissioners
   
30.55   Election materials, supplies, and equipment
   
30.56   Precinct Election Boards
   
30.57   Poll Clerks; Assistant Poll Clerks
   
30.58   Election Sheriffs
   
30.59   Precinct Inspectors
   
30.60   Nominations for Judge, Election Sheriff, Poll Clerk, and Assistant Poll
Clerk
   
30.61   Vacancies
   
30.62   Challengers; Pollbook Holders
   
30.63   Registered voter lists
   
30.64   Furnishing of election equipment by County Election Board
   
30.65   Voting methods
   
30.66   Canvassing of votes
   
30.67   Certificates of election
   
30.68   Appeal of election decisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 MEMBERS, TERMS, AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative body for the town shall be elected at large and shall
be referred to in this code as the “Town Council” or “Council”.
   (B)   The term of office of each Council member shall be four years,
beginning at 12:00 noon on January 1 after the election on which the Council
member is elected to office, and shall continue until a successor is elected
and qualified.
   (C)    At the first meeting of the Town Council, in each calendar year, the
Council shall select one of its members to serve as its President and one of
its members to serve as its Vice President, each to serve for a term of one
year commencing on the date of that meeting and remaining until the election of
the new president at the first Council Meeting in the following year. The
members elected to these positions shall serve the full term unless they resign
these positions and may be replaced pursuant only to state law.
   (D)   The Town Council shall:
      (1)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions
of the town;
      (2)   Conduct public meetings, at least one time per month, or as
necessary to carry out the business of the town or to perform the functions of
the town;
      (3)   Enter into agreements or contracts on behalf of the town with any
other local government or government agency, state government or government
agency, federal government or government agency, foreign government, or private
entity unless otherwise prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Create departments, boards, or committees, appoint persons to those
departments, boards, or committees, and hire employees as necessary to carry
out the ordinances and resolutions enacted by the Council, maintain town
property or otherwise assist the Council in performing the functions of the
town as needed;
      (5)   Purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property for the use of
the town; and
      (6)   Oversee, direct, and regulate the public utilities, if any, owned
by the town.
   (E)   The President of the Council shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Preside over all meetings, preserve order and decorum, and decide
all questions of order subject to appeal to the Council;
      (2)   Call all necessary special or emergency meetings of the Council;
and
      (3)   Sign all ordinances and resolutions passed by the Council before
submitting the ordinance or resolution to the Clerk-Treasurer for publication
in the code.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 2000-12-1, passed 12-5-2000; Ord. 2023-01, passed
3-7-2023)
§ 30.02 MEETINGS; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Any regular meeting of the Town Council is subject to the
state’s Open Door Law (I.C. 5-14-1.5). All meetings, except executive sessions,
are open to the public, and must be held in a forum conducive to public
observation and participation. An open Town Council meeting cannot be recessed
to go into executive session and then be reconvened.
      (2)   The Council will meet in regular session at least once per month at
dates and times to be determined by the Council. The schedule of regular
meetings will be published in accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5-5.
      (3)   If a regularly scheduled meeting falls on a holiday, the meeting
shall be held at another time as shall be determined by the Council at a
preceding meeting. If a meeting is canceled due to weather conditions or other
emergencies, the meeting shall be held on the next available Tuesday or
Thursday evening of the month.
      (4)   Special meetings shall be held upon the call of any Council member.
However:
         (a)   It is the duty of the person calling the meeting to notify the
Clerk-Treasurer in writing in time to reasonably permit the Clerk-Treasurer to
prepare and serve public notice of the meeting and to serve notice to all
Council members to allow them to be present at the meeting.
         (b)   Only matters as are specifically stated in the written call for
the meeting will be addressed, considered, or acted upon at the meeting.
         (c)   In addition to the notice specified herein, notice of any
special meeting must be posted at the normal meeting place at least 48 hours
before the meeting indicating the time and place of the special meeting.
   (B)   (1)   Each year, no later than 48 hours before the first meeting of
that year, the Clerk-Treasurer shall:
         (a)   Publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the town a
notice of all regularly scheduled meetings for the coming year; and
         (b)   This shall include:
            1.   The date of each meeting;
            2.   The time of each meeting; and
            3.   The location of each meeting.
      (2)   Any meeting of the Town Council is subject to the state’s Open Door
Law (I.C. 5-14-1.5). The Open Door Law requires that a written agenda be posted
at a conspicuous location.
      (3)   If a meeting is to be changed after the date of the publication, it
shall not be necessary to publish notice of the new date of the meeting but the
Clerk-Treasurer is to post the change of the meeting at the regular meeting
place at least 48 hours before the change indicating the date, time, and place
of the change.
      (4)   In the case of a bona fide emergency, the 48-hour period specified
herein may be waived. However, notice must be posted at the meeting place as
soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
§ 30.03 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Council may hold executive sessions, as set forth in I.C. 5-14-
1.5.
   (B)   I.C. 5-14-1.5 is hereby incorporated by reference into this code as if
fully set forth herein.
   (C)   Since the Town Council exercises both legislative and executive
powers, there will be an exception to the notice requirement. The Town Council
need not give notice for meetings held solely for administrative purposes. The
meetings cannot involve awarding contracts or make any commitment creating a
town obligation.
   (D)   The Open Door Law shall not apply to executive sessions.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
§ 30.04 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   As permitted by the Act (I.C. 5-14-1.5 et seq.), the Town Council
adopts this section which shall be known as the "Electronic Meetings Policy."
The provisions of the Act, including definitions, apply to this section.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E) below, a Council member may
participate in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the Council to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A Council member who participates by an electronic means of
communication shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a quorum
and may participate in final action only if the Council member can be seen
through video and heard through audio.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one Council
member participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by
roll call vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the Council members must be physically present
at a meeting at which a Council member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the Council members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A Council member may not attend more than a 50% of the meetings in
a calendar year by an electronic means of communication, unless the Council
member's electronic participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A Council member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of
meetings) by electronic communication. A Council member must attend in person
at least one meeting between sets of meetings that the Council member attends
by electronic communication, unless the Council member's absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any Council member
participates by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent; and
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Council members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting, if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   As specified by the Act, no Council member may participate (which
includes discussion and/or voting) by means of electronic communication in an
open meeting at which the Town Council of Leo-Cedarville will take final action
on any of the following subjects:
      (1)   Adoption of a budget;
      (2)   Reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiating a referendum;
      (4)   Establishing or increasing a fee or penalty;
      (5)   Using the power of eminent domain; or
      (6)   Establishing, raising, or renewing a tax.
   (F)   If an emergency is declared by the Governor under I.C. 10-14-3-12,
members are not required to be physically present for a meeting until the
emergency is terminated.
(Ord. 2022-08, passed 5-3-2022)
RULES OF ORDER; ORDINANCES
§ 30.15 RULES OF ORDER.
   The following order of business shall normally be observed by the Town
Council at its regular meetings:
   (A)   Call to order;
   (B)   Roll call of members;
   (C)   Minutes (The Clerk-Treasurer will submit a written copy of the minutes
of the preceding Council meeting to the members of the Council prior to the
start of the meeting. Formal reading of the minutes will be waived, unless a
motion is made and passed by a majority vote that the Clerk-Treasurer shall
read the minutes. The presiding officer will ask for corrections and if none,
approval.);
   (D)   Agenda (An agenda of topics to be discussed will be prepared by the
Clerk-Treasurer to be used at each meeting. A copy of the agenda is to be
posted in clear view before the start of each meeting. Only items on the agenda
will be discussed. This is to assure a time limitation to each meeting and so
as not to disrupt the orderly function of the meeting. Any item not on the
agenda can be immediately reviewed and discussed if the discussion of the item
is approved by the majority of Council members. Any item not on the agenda and
not approved for immediate discussion will be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer
orally or in writing, at the Clerk-Treasurer’s discretion, to be placed on a
future agenda. The party or parties requesting an item be placed on a future
agenda will be notified at least 48 hours in advance of the date of placement
of when the item will be on the agenda.); and
   (E)   Communications will be in the following order:
      (1)   From members of the public, including petitions;
      (2)   From other officers, boards, or commissions;
      (3)   From the Town Attorney;
      (4)   From the Clerk-Treasurer;
      (5)   Reports from Council members or committees;
      (6)   Unfinished business;
      (7)   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions;
      (8)   Miscellaneous business, any item not already considered;
      (9)   Claims (The Clerk-Treasurer will present any claims against the
town for approval or disapproval. No claim may be processed without the written
approval of the presiding Council member.); and
      (10)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 30.15)
§ 30.16 DECORUM AND DEBATE.
   (A)   When a Council member is about to speak or present any matter to the
Town Council, he or she shall respectfully address himself or herself to the
presiding officer, and on being recognized, may address the Council, and shall
confine himself or herself to the question in debate and shall avoid references
to personalities.
   (B)   (1)   No Council member shall speak more than twice on the same
question without leave of the
Council, and no more than once until every Council member choosing to speak
shall have spoken.
      (2)   All speeches shall be limited to five minutes, unless further time
is granted by the Council. Time consumed in answering questions shall not be
considered as part of the speaker’s time.
   (C)   When two or more Council members request to be heard at the same time,
the presiding officer shall decide which shall speak first.
   (D)   During regular sessions, while the presiding officer is putting a
question or addressing the Council, or when any member is speaking, no member
shall engage in any private conversation or walk across or leave the room
without the permission of the presiding officer.
   (E)   No Council member shall impugn the motive of any other.
   (F)   Any Council member may change his or her vote before the announcement
of the result by the presiding officer.
   (G)   If any Council member fails to follow these rules of decorum on
debate, he or she shall be subject to a point of order addressed to the
presiding officer.
(Prior Code, § 30.16)
§ 30.17 MOTIONS.
   (A)   Motions may be made verbally. When any motion is made, it shall be
noted in the minutes by the Clerk-Treasurer along with the name of the Council
member making the motion. The motion shall be read back to the Council by the
Clerk-Treasurer, after which debate thereon shall be in order.
   (B)   Any ordinance or resolution held to a day certain shall automatically
be placed on the agenda for that date.
   (C)   Any motion or resolution which in effect contemplates a violation of
law, or is in conflict with any ordinance, shall be out of order.
   (D)   A motion to adjourn cannot be reconsidered.
   (E)   Any matter laid on the table may be taken from the table by a vote of
the Council at any meeting after the meeting at which it is tabled.
   (F)   Motions to “reconsider” and “that when the Council adjourn, it adjourn
to meet on a day certain” are privileged questions and are debatable.
   (G)   Any business which by law or necessity must or should be transacted
within or by a certain time will be considered a question of privilege.
   (H)   A motion to “suspend the rules” is a privileged question is not
debatable and cannot be amended, except to the acceptance of the mover, and
shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Council
being present and voting.
   (I)   All motions will need to be seconded. The presiding Council member
will:
      (1)   Restate the motion;
      (2)   Call for comments;
      (3)   Put the question;
      (4)   Take the vote; and
      (5)   State the results.
(Prior Code, § 30.17)
§ 30.18 QUESTIONS.
   The motion for a “previous question” shall preclude all other motions or
amendments, except to adjourn. If the motion is sustained, the President shall
at once put the question, first upon the pending amendments in their order,
then upon the main question.
(Prior Code, § 30.18)
§ 30.19 RECONSIDERATION.
   When any question has once been decided, any Council member voting with the
prevailing side may move for a reconsideration of the issue at the same or next
regular meeting. No motion shall be introduced at the next regular meeting
unless the Council member intending to make the motion shall give written
notice of the intention to the other Council members and to the Clerk-Treasurer
prior to the next scheduled meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.19)
§ 30.20 DIVISIONS.
   Any Council member may demand the division of a question when the question
is capable of division.
(Prior Code, § 30.20)
§ 30.21 INTRODUCTION.
   No matter or proposition of a subject shall be admitted under cover of an
amendment.
(Prior Code, § 30.21)
§ 30.22 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall consist of a majority of all members or members-elect of the
Council. No ordinance, order, amendment, motion, or resolution shall take
effect until passed by a vote of the majority of the members or members-elect,
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.22)
§ 30.23 DETERMINATION OF RESULTS OF VOTING.
   The President of the Council shall decide whether any question is carried by
affirmative or negative vote. If in doubt or if a roll call vote be demanded,
the Council shall decide by roll call vote.
(Prior Code, § 30.23)
§ 30.24 ROLL CALL VOTES.
   (A)   All votes upon the passage of ordinances, orders, amendments, and
resolutions, upon motions to suspend the rules, or motions to reconsider, shall
be by roll call or by voice vote.
   (B)   Upon a roll call vote on any question, after any one Council member
shall have voted, it shall not be in order for any Council member to offer
remarks, except in explanation of his or her vote, which he or she may do
simultaneously with the casting of his or her vote.
   (C)   Any Council member may demand a roll call vote upon any question to be
voted upon by the Council. When a demand is made, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
call the roll.
(Prior Code, § 30.24)
§ 30.25 RECORDATION; PROOF OF RECORDATION.
   All ordinances passed by the Town Council shall be recorded by the Clerk-
Treasurer. The original shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer and
due proof of publication of all ordinances shall be attested by the Clerk-
Treasurer upon the face of the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 30.26)
§ 30.26 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Any ordinance, passed by the Town Council, requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof in the manner prescribed
by I.C. 5-3-1. If the ordinance declares an emergency requiring its immediate
effectiveness, it will become effective after it is posted in at lease one
public place in each legislative district in the town.
   (B)   Any ordinance, passed by the Town Council, not requiring publication
shall take effect from the date of its signing by the President of the Town
Council. Those requiring publication are only those ordinances that include a
penalty for violations.
(Prior Code, § 30.27)
§ 30.27 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall abide by the Access to Public Records Act (I.C.
5-14-3).
   (B)   Public records are any writing, paper, study, map, photograph, book,
card, tape recording, or other material that is created, received, retained,
maintained, used, or filed by the town. The general public may, with 24-hour
notice, inspect and copy any record, except:
      (1)   Records declared confidential by federal or state statute;
      (2)   Trade secrets or confidential commercial information;
      (3)   Work products of the Town Attorney appointed to work for the
municipality;
      (4)   Personal notes, diaries, or journals;
      (5)   Records specifically prepared for discussion in an executive
session;
      (6)   Internal memoranda, which are expressions of opinion or
deliberative material generated for the purpose of decision making;
      (7)   Personnel records of employees;
      (8)   Administrative or technical information which if released could
jeopardize a record keeping or security system;
      (9)   Law enforcement records; and
      (10)   Computer files, programs, codes, and systems.
   (C)   Individuals who desire to inspect a public record must identify with
reasonable particularity the record requested. Individuals may not check
through public records at random.
   (D)   Any request for inspection of a record must be in writing. Any citizen
denied access to a record may file action in circuit or superior court to
determine if the denial was warranted. The municipality has 24 hours to
reconsider the request before the citizen can file an action. The citizen must
inform the Clerk-Treasurer within 24 hours of the impending suit.
   (E)   If a person requests a public record by mail, the municipality has
seven days from the date of receipt of the request to respond. If there is no
response from the Clerk-Treasurer in seven days, the request is considered
denied. The town is not responsible for lost, stolen, or misdirected mail.
   (F)   If the request is made in writing and submitted personally, the denial
must also be in writing and must contain the specific reason for the denial and
the name and title of the official making the denial.
(Prior Code, § 30.28)
Cross reference:
   Public records policy, see §
33.09
§ 30.28 ORDINANCE CLASSES.
   Ordinances shall be of four distinct classifications:
   (A)   Town ordinances limited to the government of the town;
   (B)   Appropriation ordinances limited to the appropriation of funds;
   (C)   Special ordinances limited to contracts and business affairs of the
town; and
   (D)   Zoning map ordinances limited to amendments of the town zoning map.
(Prior Code, § 30.29)
TOWN COUNCIL ELECTIONS
§ 30.45 LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council elected under I.C. 3-10-7 is the town legislative body. The
President of the Town Council selected under I.C. 36-5-2-7 of this chapter is
the town executive.
(I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Prior Code, § 30.50)
§ 30.46 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) below, the
term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at 12:
00 noon January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the member’s
successor is elected and qualified.
   (B)   The term of office of a member of the Town Council appointed to fill a
vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of Town Council members under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.2:
      (1)   Begins when the ordinance increasing the number of Town Council
members takes effect, or when the member is appointed under I.C. 3-13-9-4, if
the appointment is made after the ordinance takes effect; and
      (2)   Continues until noon January 1 following the next municipal
election scheduled under I.C. 3-10-6-5 or I.C. 3-10-7-6 (§
30.52(A) and (B) of this chapter) and until the member’s successor is elected
and qualified.
   (C)   The term of office of a Town Council member elected under I.C. 36-5-1-
10.1 following the incorporation of the town:
      (1)   Begins at noon November 30 following the election; and
      (2)   Continues until noon January 1 following the next municipal
election scheduled under I.C. 3-10-6-5 or I.C. 3-10-7-6 and until the member’s
successor is elected and qualified.
   (D)   The term of office of a Town Council member subject to I.C. 3-10-6-2.5
(d)(1) is three years, beginning at 12:00 noon January 1 after the member’s
election and continuing until the member’s successor is elected and qualified.
   (E)   The term of office of a Town Council member subject to an ordinance
described by I.C. 3-10-6-2.6 is one year, beginning at 12:00 noon January 1
after the member’s election and continuing until the member’s successor is
elected and qualified.
   (F)   The term of office of a Town Council member subject to an ordinance
described by I.C. 3-10-7-2.7 (§
30.50 of this chapter) is three years if the member is elected at the next
municipal election not conducted in a general election year; and four years for
the successors of a Town Council member described in division (B)(1) above;
beginning 12:00 noon January 1 after election and continuing until a successor
is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3) (Prior Code, § 30.51)
§ 30.47 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPOINTED MEMBER. The member of a Town Election Board who is also the Town
Chairperson of a major political party appointed under I.C. 3-8-5-3.
(I.C. 3-10-7-1.5) (Prior Code, § 30.52)
§ 30.48 TOWN ELECTIONS NOT COINCIDING WITH GENERAL ELECTIONS.
   Except as provided in I.C. 3-10-7-4 (§
30.51(B) of this chapter), the Town Election Board established under this
chapter shall conduct elections for town offices that do not coincide with a
general election.
(I.C. 3-10-7-2) (Prior Code, § 30.53)
§ 30.49 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE UNDER I.C. 3-10-6-2.5.
   The town may adopt an ordinance under I.C. 3-10-6-2.5, if the town has not
adopted an ordinance under I.C. 18-3-1-16(b) (before its repeal on September 1,
1981) or Pub. Law 13-1982, § 3 (before its expiration on January 1, 1988).
(I.C. 3-10-7-2.5) (Prior Code, § 30.54)
§ 30.50 TERM AND TIME OF ELECTION OF MUNICIPAL OFFICERS; REQUIREMENT; REPEAL.
   (A)   The town may adopt an ordinance during the year preceding a municipal
election conducted under I.C. 3-10-7-2 (§
30.48 of this chapter) prescribing the length of the term of office for
municipal officers and changing the time municipal elections are held.
   (B)   The ordinance described in division (A) above must provide all of the
following:
      (1)   The Town Council members, Clerk-Treasurer, or judge elected at the
next municipal election not conducted in a general election year serve a term
of three years;
      (2)   The successors of the Town Council members, Clerk-Treasurer, or
judge described in subdivision (B)(1) above shall be chosen at the second
general election following the municipal election and serve a term of four
years; and
      (3)   The municipal elections for town offices shall be held during a
general election.
   (C)   The town may repeal an ordinance adopted under division (A) above
subject to both of the following:
      (1)   The ordinance may not be repealed earlier than 12 years after the
ordinance was adopted; and
      (2)   The ordinance may be repealed only in a year preceding a municipal
election held at the time described in I.C. 3-10-6-5.
(I.C. 3-10-7-2.7) (Prior Code, § 30.55)
§ 30.51 CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Town Council elections coinciding with general elections. If the town
has established staggered terms for its Town Council, or has adopted an
ordinance under I.C. 3-10-7-2.7 (§
30.50 of this chapter), the County Election Board shall conduct a municipal
election in the town that coincides with a general election.
(I.C. 3-10-7-3)
   (B)   The town and County Election Board agreements. The County Election
Board and the town may enter into a written agreement providing that the County
Election Board will conduct a municipal election in the town. However, the town
shall continue to nominate candidates by convention conducted under I.C. 3-8-
5 or by petition filed under I.C. 3-8-6. An agreement may not be entered into
after July 1 of a year in which a municipal election is to be held in the town.
(I.C. 3-10-7-4)
(Prior Code, § 30.56)
§ 30.52 DATES OF ELECTIONS; WHEN ELECTION NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A municipal election conducted under this chapter shall be held at the
time prescribed by I.C. 3-10-6.
   (B)   An election may not be held for a municipal office if:
      (1)   There is only one nominee for the office; and
      (2)   No person has filed a declaration of intent to be a write-in
candidate for the office under I.C. 3-8-2-2.5.
(I.C. 3-10-7-6)
   (C)   An election may not be held for a municipal office if:
      (1)   An election is not required under I.C. 3-10-7-6 (division (A)
above); and
      (2)   The approval or rejection of a public question is the only other
vote that may be cast on the ballot at the municipal election.
(I.C. 3-10-7-6.1) (Prior Code, § 30.57)
§ 30.53 TOWN ELECTION BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment; membership.
      (1)   A Town Election Board consisting of three members is established by
statute in the town unless the town has entered into an agreement with the
County Election Board under I.C. 3-10-7-4 (§
30.51(B) of this chapter);
      (2)   The Town Election Board consists of the following three members:
         (a)   The Town Chairperson of each of the major political parties
appointed under I.C. 3-8-5-3; and
         (b)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 3-10-7-7)
   (B)   Officers. The members of the Town Election Board shall select one of
the appointed members to serve as Chairperson. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
serve as Secretary of the Board.
(I.C. 3-10-7-11)
   (C)   Call of meetings. The Town Election Board shall hold meetings on call
of the Chairperson whenever necessary to perform its duties. If the Chairperson
refuses, fails, or is unable to call a meeting, the two remaining members may
meet to perform the duties of the Board.
(I.C. 3-10-7-12)
   (D)   Minutes; voting records. Minutes of all Town Election Board meetings
and a record of the aye and nay vote of each member on all questions coming
before the Board shall be kept.
(I.C. 3-10-7-13)
   (E)   Supervision of elections. The Town Election Board shall conduct all
elections for town offices that do not coincide with general elections and
administer the election laws at those elections.
(I.C. 3-10-7-14)
   (F)   Clerks, custodians, and other employees. The Town Election Board may
appoint and at its pleasure remove clerks, custodians, and other employees that
are necessary to execute its powers. The Board may prescribe the duties, fix
the rank, and fix the salaries of its appointees.
(I.C. 3-10-7-16)
   (G)   Audits of books. The books of the Town Election Board shall be audited
as are those of other town officials.
(I.C. 3-10-7-18)
   (H)   Duties of Town Marshal. The Town Marshal, whenever called upon by the
Town Election Board, shall assist the Board in the enforcement of the election
laws and the discharge of its duties.
(I.C. 3-10-7-19)
   (I)   Compensation of members. The Town Council shall determine the
compensation of each appointed member of the Town Election Board. The Town
Council shall fix the compensation in the same manner as it fixes salaries.
(I.C. 3-10-7-20)
   (J)   Powers and duties. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the
Town Election Board conducting a municipal election under this chapter, the
Town Executive, the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and members of political parties in
each town in which a municipal election is conducted under this chapter have
the same rights and powers, shall perform the same duties, and are subject to
the same qualifications and penalties as a County Election Board that is
conducting a general election, or the County Executive, Circuit Court Clerk, or
member of a political party in a town in which a general election is conducted
by the County Election Board.
(I.C. 3-10-7-21)
(Prior Code, § 30.58)
§ 30.54 DEPUTY ELECTION COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Town Election Board may appoint and at its pleasure remove Deputy
Election Commissioners. A Deputy Election Commissioner appointed under this
section must reside in the town. If a Deputy Election Commissioner ceases to be
a resident of the town, the person may not continue to serve as a Deputy
Election Commissioner of the town.
   (B)   The County Chairperson of each major political party who appointed the
Chairperson of that political party’s town committee under I.C. 3-8-5-3 shall
designate one-half of the Deputy Commissioners. Deputy Election Commissioners
may assist the Town Election Board in carrying out its duties in accordance
with the rules adopted by the Board.
(I.C. 3-10-7-15) (Prior Code, § 30.59)
§ 30.55 ELECTION MATERIALS, SUPPLIES, AND EQUIPMENT.
   All materials, supplies, and equipment that are to be paid for out of the
town treasury shall be purchased as provided by statute and paid upon claims
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Election Board must verify and
approve the claims.
(I.C. 3-10-7-17) (Prior Code, § 30.60)
§ 30.56 PRECINCT ELECTION BOARDS.
   (A)   Members.
      (1)   The Town Election Board shall appoint a Precinct Election Board for
each precinct in the town.
      (2)   If a precinct is wholly or partly in the town, the Town Election
Board may designate the polls for the precinct to be at the polls for an
adjoining precinct, using the Precinct Election Board of the adjoining
precinct.
      (3)   Each Precinct Election Board consists of:
         (a)   One inspector; and
         (b)   Two judges of opposite political parties.
      (4)   The members of a Precinct Election Board must be voters who reside
in the town.
(I.C. 3-10-7-22)
   (B)   Powers and duties. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a
Precinct Election Board for a municipal election has the same powers and
duties, and is subject to the same qualifications and penalties, as a Precinct
Election Board appointed for a general election under I.C. 3-6-6-1.
(I.C. 3-10-7-23)
(Prior Code, § 30.61)
§ 30.57 POLL CLERKS; ASSISTANT POLL CLERKS.
   The Town Election Board shall appoint two Poll Clerks, and may appoint two
Assistant Poll Clerks, of opposite political parties for each precinct in the
town. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the Poll Clerks and
Assistant Poll Clerks have the same powers and duties, and are subject to the
same qualifications and penalties, as Poll Clerks and Assistant Poll Clerks
appointed for a general election under I.C. 3-6-6-2 and I.C. 3-6-6-3.
(I.C. 3-10-7-24) (Prior Code, § 30.62)
§ 30.58 ELECTION SHERIFFS.
   (A)   The Town Election Board shall appoint two Election Sheriffs of
opposite political parties for each precinct in the town. Except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, the Election Sheriffs have the same powers and
duties, and are subject to the same qualifications and penalties, as Election
Sheriffs appointed for a general election under I.C. 3-6-6-5.
   (B)   The Town Election Board may adopt a resolution providing that the
Judges of each precinct that is located wholly or partially in the town and
that will contain no more than 250 registered voters on municipal election day
shall perform the duties and have the rights of the Election Sheriffs of the
precinct.
(I.C. 3-10-7-25) (Prior Code, § 30.63)
§ 30.59 PRECINCT INSPECTORS.
   The appointed member of the Town Election Board who represents the major
political party whose nominee received the highest number of votes in the
county for Secretary of State at the last election may nominate one person to
serve as Inspector for each precinct in the town.
(I.C. 3-10-7-26) (Prior Code, § 30.64)
§ 30.60 NOMINATIONS FOR JUDGE, ELECTION SHERIFF, POLL CLERK, AND ASSISTANT POLL
CLERK.
   Each of the appointed members of the Town Election Board may nominate one
person to serve as a Judge; one person to serve as an Election Sheriff, except
in a precinct subject to a resolution adopted under I.C. 3-10-7-25 (§
30.58 of this chapter); one person to serve as a Poll Clerk; and one person to
serve as an Assistant Poll Clerk, if Assistant Poll Clerks are to be appointed
for each precinct in the town.
(I.C. 3-10-7-27) (Prior Code, § 30.65)
§ 30.61 VACANCIES.
   The Town Election Board shall appoint the persons who are nominated under
I.C. 3-10-7-26 and 3-10-7-27 (§§ 30.59 and 30.60 of this chapter). A vacancy in
an office shall be filled by an appointment made upon the recommendation of the
Board member who nominated the original officer.
(I.C. 3-10-7-28) (Prior Code, § 30.66)
§ 30.62 CHALLENGERS; POLLBOOK HOLDERS.
   Each political party that has a candidate on the ballot in a municipal
election under this subchapter may appoint one challenger and one Pollbook
Holder for each precinct in the town. These persons have the same powers and
duties and are subject to the same qualifications and penalties as challengers
and Pollbook Holders appointed under I.C. 3-6-7-1.
(I.C. 3-10-7-29) (Prior Code, § 30.67)
§ 30.63 REGISTERED VOTER LISTS.
   (A)   The Circuit Court Clerk or Board of Registration of the county shall
prepare copies of the list of registered voters for each precinct in the town
at least ten days before a municipal election under this subchapter. The lists
must include the full name, address, and assigned identification number of each
voter. Two copies of the list shall be presented to the Town Election Board for
use at the polls on election day.
   (B)   Not later than 24 days before election day, the Circuit Court Clerk or
Board of Registration shall provide a list of registered voters in the town to
the Town Election Board to permit the Board to conduct absentee ballot voting.
(I.C. 3-10-7-30) (Prior Code, § 30.68)
§ 30.64 FURNISHING OF ELECTION EQUIPMENT BY COUNTY ELECTION BOARD.
   Upon request of the Town Election Board, the County Election Board of each
county in which the town is located shall furnish any available equipment that
is necessary for a municipal election, including voting machines, ballot card
voting systems, and electronic voting systems. The town shall pay the expense
of moving the equipment to and from the polls and for any loss of or damage to
the equipment.
(I.C. 3-10-7-31) (Prior Code, § 30.69)
§ 30.65 VOTING METHODS.
   (A) The Town Election Board shall determine what voting method will be used
in a municipal election.
   (B)   The Town Election Board and its precinct election officers shall
perform the duties of the County Election Board and its precinct election
officers under I.C. 3-11 for each voting method used.
   (C)   The Town Election Board shall prepare the ballots in the form
prescribed by I.C. 3-11-2 and distribute them to the precincts in the town.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, the Town Election Board, by
unanimous consent of the Board’s entire membership, may authorize the printing
or reproduction of ballots on equipment under the control of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. If the Town Election Board acts under this division (D), the ballots
are not required to conform to the precise dimensions concerning the size of
political party devices under I.C. 3-11-2-9 or the placement of a candidate’s
name under I.C. 3-11-2-10(f). However, the ballots must otherwise substantially
conform with I.C. 3-11-2.
(I.C. 3-10-7-32) (Prior Code, § 30.70)
§ 30.66 CANVASSING OF VOTES.
   The Town Election Board shall canvass the votes from a municipal election in
the manner prescribed by I.C. 3-12-4.
(I.C. 3-10-7-33) (Prior Code, § 30.71)
§ 30.67 CERTIFICATES OF ELECTION.
   (A)   After completing the canvass of votes under I.C. 3-10-7-33 (§
30.66 of this chapter), the Town Election Board shall make out a certificate:
      (1)   Designating each office and public question;
      (2)   Stating the number of votes each candidate has received and cast
for or against each public question; and
      (3)   Declaring the candidate receiving the highest number of votes for
each office to be elected and the local public question approved or rejected if
the question was placed on the ballot by the Town Election Board.
   (B)   The Town Election Board shall present the certificate to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, who may, upon the request of the candidate or a person
entitled to request a recount of the votes cast on a public question, issue a:
      (1)   Certificate of election to each person elected; or
      (2)   Certificate declaring the local public question approved or
rejected.
(I.C. 3-10-7-34) (Prior Code, § 30.72)
§ 30.68 APPEAL OF ELECTION DECISIONS.
   (A)   Any voter of the town who disagrees with a decision of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or the Town Election Board under this chapter may appeal the decision
to the County Election Board of the county containing the greatest percentage
of population of the town before a municipal election under this chapter.
   (B)   The appeal must be in the form of a brief written statement setting
forth the grounds of the appeal, together with any documents relevant to the
matter.
   (C)   The County Election Board shall render a decision on the appeal within
ten days after the Board receives the statement.
(I.C. 3-10-7-35) (Prior Code, § 30.73)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Town Manager
   
31.02   Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.03   Town Maintenance Person
   
31.04   Salaries and compensation
   
31.05   Roth account contributions
   
31.06   Primary election
   
31.07   Vacancies in office
   
31.08   Bonds
   
31.09   Indemnification
   
31.10   Town volunteers
   
31.11   Reserved
   
31.12   Americans with Disabilities Act
   
31.13   Personnel policies
§ 31.01 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Creation of position of Town Manager. Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-5-1 et
seq., the Town Council hereby establishes the office of Town Manager. The Town
Manager shall serve as the administrative head of the town and shall have the
powers set forth herein.
   (B)   Employment; compensation; and tenure.
      (1)   The Town Council shall appoint a qualified person at its discretion
to serve as Town Manager by separate resolution. Such person shall serve at the
will of the Town Council and may be removed from office at will, with or
without cause and with or without prior notice. However, not withstanding this
section, the Town Council may at its discretion employ a person for a specific
fixed term, during which time the person may be removed only for cause,
provided that the fixed term does not exceed the longest remaining term in
office of a then current member of the Town Council.
      (2)   The Town Council may, by resolution, appoint a qualified person to
perform the duties of the Town Manager during any period of absence or
incapacity by the Town Manager.
      (3)   The Town Council shall fix the compensation and benefits of the
Town Manager, or any acting Town Manager, which shall be set forth in the
town’s salary ordinance.
   (C)   Persons barred. No member of the Town Council, nor any other person
holding a lucrative office with the town, may serve as the Town Manager of the
town.
   (D)   Performance bond. The Town Manager must execute a bond for the
faithful performance of his or her duties in compliance with I.C. 5-4-1.
   (E)   Duties. The Town Manager, under the direction of the Town Council, is
responsible for performing the following duties:
      (1)   Attend all regularly scheduled meetings of the Town Council, and
such other meetings of the Town Council or other boards or commissions of the
town as directed by the Town Council;
      (2)   Prepare the agenda with the assistance of the Town Clerk-Treasurer
for all Town Council meetings and assist in gathering and copying any necessary
paperwork or other information needing to be submitted to the Town Council at
its meetings;
      (3)   Prepare and present written reports to the Town Council at the bi-
monthly meetings concerning the status of active projects, personnel issues,
and other town business;
      (4)   Shall prepare budget estimates and submit them to the Town Council
when required;
      (5)   Coordinate the communication between the Town Council and the
boards and departments of the town and coordinate the communications between
the Town Council and other private and public persons or entities as needed;
      (6)   Supervise the employees of the town, including establishing goals
for the employees, monitoring work on a day-to-day basis, evaluating employee
job performance and discipline (other than termination from employment), and
maintain employee files;
      (7)   The Town Manager may only hire or terminate employees of the town
upon the approval of the Town Council;
      (8)   Coordinate the work of the various departments and boards of the
town, and assist all departments in issuing communications, and publishing
notices, e-mails to employees, communications to vendors, and solicitations to
prospective bidders. The Town Manager shall be primarily responsible for
collecting bids for public works projects and delivering them to the Town
Council, appropriate board, or the Town Engineer for opening at the prescribed
public meeting;
      (9)   Shall serve as the town’s ombudsman with the public and shall
facilitate communication between the Town Council and other town departments
and boards by accepting and acknowledging public comments, suggestions, and
complaints and forwarding them, as necessary, to the proper department or Town
Council. The Town Manager shall answer any questions of a general nature and
shall provide information to the public concerning town services and events.
The Town Manager shall also maintain the town website and any applicable social
media sites;
      (10)   Shall accept and respond to public information and records
requests;
      (11)   Shall accept service of summons on behalf of the town;
      (12)   Shall administer and enforce all ordinances, orders, and
resolutions of the Town Council. Shall investigate public complaints of and/or
apparent town ordinance violations and work with the Town Attorney in handling
or responding to same. Upon a finding of an ordinance violation, the Town
Manager may involve the Town Attorney and act to enforce the town ordinance in
a manner consistent with state law and the town code;
      (13)   Research and report to the Town Council or other appropriate board
on appropriate federal and state grants available to the town, and shall
oversee the preparation of grant requests upon the approval of the Town Council
or appropriate board;
      (14)   Shall identify town service and policy needs and shall make
recommendations to the Town Council for any necessary legislative action. The
Town Manager shall make recommendations to the Town Council with regard to
economic development and any projects related to established goals, including
sources of funding;
      (15)   Assist the Town Council in preparing, updating, and executing long
range strategic plans, including conducting research, communicating with
outside entities, and gathering information for the Council, and preparing
reports, correspondence, and other necessary documents;
      (16)   Acts as the purchasing agent per the current town purchasing
policy for all departments of the town and oversees the bid process on all
major purchases. Shall make recommendations to the Council or other departments
based on research of vendors and their products. The Town Manager shall execute
contracts on behalf of the town for materials and supplies, services, or
improvements after the completion of any appropriations, notice, and
competitive bidding required by statute;
      (17)   Be responsible for ensuring the maintenance and continued
operation of all public property, including public grounds, the office, the
parks, the rights-of-way, the computer system, copiers, telephone systems,
building structures, and other facilities, equipment, and vehicles of the town,
and shall coordinate the repair of any such property when necessary;
      (18)   Shall coordinate the scheduling of rentals of the park pavilions
and sign(s);
      (19)   Shall communicate with the Town Attorney and Town Engineer as
necessary to perform the other functions set forth herein;
      (20)   The Town Manager may not issue or execute bonds, notes, or
warrants of the town;
      (21)   The Town Manager may delegate any of his or her powers or
responsibilities to any employee responsible to him or her, but shall remain
directly responsible to the Town Council for the exercise of such powers or
responsibilities; and
      (22)   The Town Council may assign other duties as needed.
   (F)   Office hours. The Town Manager shall work out of the Town Office and
shall work no less than 40 hours per week. The Town Council may, at its
discretion, establish a schedule of regular office hours for the Town Manager.
Otherwise, the Town Manager may establish his or her own schedule of office
hours. The schedule of the regular office hours of the Town Manager shall be
posted on the door of the Town Office for the convenience of the public.
   (G)   Zoning duties. At the discretion of the Town Planning Commission, the
Town Manager may also serve as the Town Zoning Administrator and/or the
Secretary to the Planning Commission. At the discretion of the Town Board of
Zoning Appeals, the Town Manager may also serve as the Secretary to the Board
of Zoning Appeals. If so appointed, in addition to the duties set forth above,
the Town Manager shall have any other duties set forth in the town zoning code
for the Town Zoning Administrator and/or Secretary of the Planning Commission
or Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals, and any other duties assigned by
the Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 2006-08, passed 7-18-2006; Ord. 2011-04, passed 12-
6-2011; Ord. 2014-3, passed 9-23-2014)
§ 31.02 TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters at large for a term
of four years, commencing at 12:00 noon on the first day of January following
the election. The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the corporate limits of
the town, and forfeits his or her office if he or she ceases to be a resident
of the town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Attend all meetings of the Town Council and record the proceedings;
      (2)   Transcribe the record of the meetings, both regular and special, of
the Council and maintain the transcripts in an organized fashion in a binder
which shall be labeled “The Journal of the Town Council of the Town of Leo-
Cedarville, Indiana”;
      (3)   Maintain two copies of the town code and any other ordinances or
resolutions passed by the Council, for public inspection;
      (4)   Keep a written file of all original papers, documents, reports, and
correspondence filed with or submitted to Council;
      (5)   Keep his or her records open for inspection by the Council or by a
person designated by the Council;
      (6)   Act as custodian of all contracts, agreements, ordinances,
resolutions, or any other document or paper pertaining to the business of the
town, except when the contracts, agreements, ordinances, or other documents or
papers are, necessarily, in the hands of the Council for consideration thereon;
      (7)   In the event that a member of the Council cannot be present at a
meeting, and the remaining four members vote on an issue and the vote results
in a tie, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cast the deciding vote;
      (8)   Administer oaths, take depositions, and take acknowledgments of
instruments required by statute to be acknowledged, on behalf of the town;
      (9)   Issue licenses or certificates authorized by statute;
      (10)   Receive and care for all town monies;
      (11)   Upon order of the Council, pay out town money;
      (12)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources he or she has
received town monies and when and to whom he or she has paid them out;
      (13)   File, each month, with the Council, a statement showing the
receipts and disbursements of the town funds for the preceding month and the
balance remaining in each town fund;
      (14)   Act as agent for receipt of legal service upon the town and notify
immediately the President of the Council upon receipt of the service;
      (15)   Publish all necessary notices of all meetings of the Council;
      (16)   Obtain all necessary bonds for the officers and employees of the
town;
      (17)   Serve as financial officer for the town under the Barrett Law; and
      (18)   Serve notice on all Council members of special meetings.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
§ 31.03 TOWN MAINTENANCE PERSON.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority vested by I.C. 36-1-4-14, the Town Council
hereby establishes the position of Town Maintenance Person.
   (B)   The Town Maintenance Person position shall be staffed by an individual
hired by the Town Executive upon approval of a majority of the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall have direct day-to-day supervisory authority
over the Town Maintenance Person subject to any instructions given by the Town
Executive. The Town Executive shall have the right to establish and publish
employment policies governing the Maintenance Person, subject to the approval
of the Town Council.
   (D)   The Town Executive shall issue all discipline to the Town Maintenance
Person, but may not terminate the employment of the Maintenance Person without
the approval of a majority of the Town Council. In the event that the Town
Executive believes that an employee holding the Maintenance Person position has
engaged in conduct warranting immediate dismissal or poses a risk to the health
and safety of himself or herself, the town, or others, the Town Executive may
suspend the Maintenance Person immediately without pay pending approval of the
Town Council at its next regular meeting or at a special meeting.
(I.C. 36-5-2-13)
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-12-1.5-6.1, the Town Council may hold meetings in
executive session in order to interview prospective employees for the
Maintenance Person position; to receive and discuss information concerning
alleged misconduct by an employee holding such position; to review and/or
discuss any records concerning such an employee if such records are classified
as confidential by state or federal statute (this includes and medical records
received from such individual in a manner compliant with the Americans with
Disabilities Act (“ADA”) or the Health Insurance Portability Act (“HIPA”)); or
to discuss a job performance evaluation prepared by the Town Manager and Town
Executive before such evaluation is given to the employee. No final decisions
shall be made during executive sessions, and all executive sessions shall be
properly noticed in accordance with I.C. 5-14-1.5.
   (F)   Subject to the day-to-day instructions of the Town Manager or the Town
Executive, the Town Maintenance Person shall be responsible for the maintenance
and upkeep of all buildings and equipment of the town. This includes
maintaining the buildings and keeping electrical, heat, plumbing, sewage, and
drainage in good working order; maintaining the lawns, bushes, and landscaping
of the town property; maintaining and repairing as necessary any town vehicles;
removal of debris, trash, rubbish, or dead animals from the town rights-of-way
and town property; removal of ice and snow or other hazards from walkways on
town property and such other duties as may be assigned by the Town Manager or
the Town Executive.
   (G)   Upon the approval of the Town Executive, the Town Maintenance Person
will deal directly with vendors or independent contractors hired by the town to
supply materials or services to the town relating to the maintenance of town
property. The Town Maintenance Person shall not have the express or implied
authority to bind the town to contracts. All contracts must be approved by the
Town Council and signed by the Town Executive. Minor purchases may be made by
the Town Clerk-Treasurer or Town Manager pursuant to the town’s petty cash
ordinance. However, if the Town Council amends the petty cash ordinance to
provide for minor expenditure by the Maintenance Person, the Maintenance Person
shall be authorized to make expenditures consistent with that ordinance.
   (H)   The Maintenance Person position is created, hereby, as a part-time
position and it is expected that the Maintenance Person shall work no more than
1,200 hours per calendar year. However, the position may be converted to a
full-time position by a resolution of the Town Council passed by majority vote.
   (I)   The Maintenance Person shall work a schedule based on a work week
beginning on Monday and ending on Sunday. The work schedule shall be provided
or approved by the Town Manager or Town Executive. All time off shall be
approved in advance by the Town Manager and Town Executive.
   (J)   The hourly rate of the Maintenance Person shall be established in the
town’s general salary ordinance and appropriated in the town’s annual budget.
Except in the event of emergencies, the Town Maintenance Person must obtain
approval from the Town Executive before working more than 40 hours in any one
week.
   (K)   The Maintenance Person shall be entitled to all benefits for part-time
or full-time (whichever may apply) employees of the town as are established by
the town’s ordinances.
   (L)   The Maintenance Person shall be classified as a non-exempt, hourly
employee for purposes of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour
laws.
   (M)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for obtaining necessary
workers compensation insurance, making unemployment compensation payments to
the state, and processing the Maintenance Person’s payroll checks.
   (N)   The Maintenance Person position shall be an at will employment
position. Nothing in this section or in any other ordinance or policy of the
town shall constitute the granting of a property interest in employment to any
person. Any promises or representations to the contrary by any person or
persons are without authority and unenforceable.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 31.04 SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The members of the Town Council shall be paid a salary as set by
annual salary ordinance by the Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be paid a salary as set by annual salary
ordinance by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
§ 31.05 ROTH ACCOUNT CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The town’s 457 Plan shall be amended to allow plan participants to
treat deferred contribution payments as post-tax Roth contributions in
compliance with the requirements of 26 U.S.C. § 402A.
   (B)   Eligible employees are to be provided the opportunity to make
designated Roth contributions in lieu of all or a portion of elective deferrals
the employee is otherwise eligible to make under the town’s 457 Plan.
   (C)   The town’s Plan shall establish separate “Roth accounts” for the
designated Roth contributions of each employee and any earnings properly
allocable to such contributions and the town’s Plan Administrator shall
maintain separate record keeping with respect to each such account.
   (D)   The Town Council President and Town Manager are hereby authorized and
directed to execute all necessary plan documents to amend the town’s 457 Plan
to allow for Roth contributions in a manner that complies with 26 U.S.C. § 402A
and any other applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
(Res. 2012-01R, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 31.06 PRIMARY ELECTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-8-5-2(a) and (c), candidates for offices for the
town shall be nominated by:
      (1)   A primary election;
      (2)   A petition filed under I.C. 3-8-6; or
      (3)   If a primary election is not required under I.C. 3-8-5-10 for the
political party of which the candidate is a member, by the candidate’s
declaration of candidacy.
   (B)   The County Election Board shall conduct all primary elections for the
town.
   (C)   All statutes governing primary elections to towns shall apply.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall send a copy of this section to the County
Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2002-06, passed 12-5-2002)
§ 31.07 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   Any town office that is vacated shall be filled by the majority vote of the
Town Council. If the office vacated is that of a Council member and the vote of
the remaining members cannot produce a majority vote, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
cast the deciding vote.
(Prior Code, § 31.04)
§ 31.08 BONDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-4-1-18(c), each year, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
obtain and file an individual surety bond with the office of the County
Recorder. This bond shall be in the amount of $15,000 for each $1,000,000 of
receipts of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office for the previous fiscal year. The bond
shall insure the faithful performance of the Clerk-Treasurer in his or her
official duties.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-16, each year, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
obtain a bond on behalf of all employees of the town who handle money in the
performance of duties on behalf of the Town Park Advisory Board.
(Prior Code, § 31.05)
§ 31.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The town shall provide legal services to any officer, employee, or
agent of the town, and any former officer, employee, or agent of the town, who
has been sued, or who is hereafter sued, or against whom a claim has been made
or may hereafter be made relative to damages or liability arising out of
actions or failures to act done in good faith in the performance of duty.
   (B)   (1)   The town shall hold harmless any officer, employee, or agent, or
former officer, employee, or agent, from any liability or damages if it is
determined that the act or failure to act which gave rise to liability or
damages was done in good faith in the performance of duty.
      (2)   This section shall have no application to any case where the town
or state may bring an action against an officer, employee, or agent, or former
officer, employee, or agent.
   (C)   (1)   Any past or present Clerk-Treasurer of the town named as a
defendant in litigation initiated by the state, either through the State Board
of Accounts or the State Attorney General, seeking to impose personal liability
for the payment of public funds later determined to be inappropriate, shall be
entitled to indemnification or reimbursement for all legal fees and expenses
incurred in connection with the defense of the suit, subject to the limitations
set forth herein.
      (2)   The indemnification or reimbursement, however, shall be at an
hourly rate for legal services that are equal to or less than the hourly rate
established by this Council in the annual salary ordinance for extraordinary
services provided by the Town Attorney applicable to the year in which the
legal services are provided.
      (3)   In the event that a final judgment is entered against an
indemnified Clerk-Treasurer finding fraud, malice, willful misconduct, or
absence of good faith, the individual indemnified by this provision shall
reimburse the town for all fees or expenses previously paid by the town. In
addition, the town, by assuming an obligation to pay the cost of defense, does
not assume any liability to pay any judgment entered against any indemnified
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer indemnified may select the Town Attorney to
represent him or her in the proceedings. In such cases, the Town Attorney shall
be compensated at the hourly rate for extraordinary legal services provided for
in the applicable annual salary ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   This division (D) is passed pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-2 which
grants to the town all necessary powers needed for the effective operation of
town government. Furthermore, this division (D) is in no way a limitation of
civil liability, as prescribed in I.C. 36-1-3-8, but rather, deals with the
defense and indemnification of Council members.
      (2)   It is and shall be the policy of the town to defend and indemnify
members of the Town Council with respect to lawsuits brought against them that
involve the discretionary performance of legislative duties. The performance of
legislative duties, for purposes herein, shall be those legislative duties, as
performed from time to time, by Council members pursuant to state law and/or
ordinance or resolution of this town. However, defense and indemnification
shall not be provided on those situations in which a Council member would have
individual and/or personal liability as provided, from time to time, by state
law, whether same be statutory or case law.
      (3)   This division (D) is necessary to ensure that Council members may
freely exercise their legislative responsibilities as charged to them by the
citizens of this community.
(Prior Code, § 31.06)
§ 31.10 TOWN VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   Designation and approval of volunteers.
      (1)   All individuals who donate their services to the town, usually on a
part-time basis, for public service, religious or humanitarian objectives, and
without expectation to pay beyond the nominal stipend or reimbursement of
expenses set forth herein, are to be considered volunteers of the town rather
than employees or independent contractors for taxation and other legal
purposes.
      (2)   The Town Council hereby designates all members of any boards,
commissions or committees of the town, including, but not limited to, the
following positions, as "volunteer positions" for the town:
         (a)   Park Board members;
         (b)   Stormwater Board members;
         (c)   Plan Commission members;
         (d)   Board of Zoning Appeals members.
      (3)   All persons holding such positions shall be considered "rostered
volunteers" approved by the Town Council pursuant to I.C. 22-3-2-2.1 or any
other applicable law concerning volunteers without any further action. However,
if the town's workers' compensation or liability insurance providers require a
specific form of "roster of volunteers" distinct from this section, the Town
Manager shall cause such a roster to be created and provided to the insurance
provider and shall update the roster from time to time.
      (4)   Additionally, the Town Manager, the Park Board and the Stormwater
Board are hereby authorized to accept volunteers as needed for various
projects, programs and festivals initiated by the town, including, but not
limited to, park cleanup days, Christmas celebrations, Halloween celebrations,
Fourth of July celebrations and other similar activities. It shall be the
responsibility of the Town Manager to create a roster of volunteers for each
such project, celebration, or activity. Unless a different form is required by
the town's insurance providers, the Town Manager shall use the form attached to
Ord. 2021-09 as Exhibit "A" as the roster of volunteers for such project,
celebration, or activity.
   (B)   Stipends and expense reimbursement.
      (1)   Members of the various ongoing boards, commissions and committees
shall be entitled to a stipend and expense reimbursement as established in the
order or resolution creating such board, commission, or committee. However, no
member of a board, commission, or committee shall be paid a stipend of more
than $50 per month. Members shall only be entitled to stipends for months
during which they attend meetings or perform other services on behalf of the
board, commission, or committee upon which they sit. All expenses must be
approved by the board, commission, or committee upon which the member sits, and
the member must provide a receipt or other documented proof of the expense to
the Clerk-Treasurer prior to payment of the reimbursement.
      (2)   No volunteer for any single program, activity or celebration shall
be entitled to a stipend unless there is a specific resolution passed by the
Town Council allowing for the payment of the stipend. However, the Town
Manager, or other board, commission, or committee that organizes the volunteer
event may provide food, certificates of appreciation, or other non-monetary
gifts to such volunteers as a means of appreciation, provided that such gifts
do not exceed the value of $50 per volunteer and provided that such expenditure
is properly appropriated from an appropriate fund.
      (3)   Volunteers for periodic activities, programs or celebrations may
also be reimbursed for incurred expenses but only if those expenses are pre-
approved by an authorized purchasing agent of the town and provided that
documentation of the expense if provided prior to repayment.
   (C)   Supervision and indemnity.
      (1)   All temporary volunteers shall be supervised by a town officer or
employee during all volunteer activities.
      (2)   The town shall indemnify its volunteers from any liability for
conduct arising within the scope of the volunteer's volunteer activity for the
town, unless the conduct in question was criminal, reckless, or grossly
negligent.
   (D)   Volunteer acknowledgement form. All volunteers for the town shall
execute a Volunteer Acknowledgement Form (attached to Ord. 2021-09 as Exhibit
"B").
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 2-28-2012; Ord. 2021-09, passed - -2021)
§ 31.11 RESERVED.
§ 31.12 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   The Town Manager is designated as the ADA Coordinator for the town.
   (B)   The notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act is attached as
Exhibit A to Resolution 2019-11, a copy of which is posted to the town website,
is adopted as the town notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, being
42 U.S.C.§§ 12101 et seq.
   (C)   The town ADA grievance procedure under the Americans with Disabilities
Act, attached as Exhibit B to Resolution 2019-11, is adopted as the grievance
procedure for addressing complaints alleging discrimination on the basis of
disability in the provision of services, activities, programs, or benefits by
the town.
   (D)   In compliance with federal and state laws as set forth above, the Town
Council resolves to post the required information regarding the ADA
Coordinator, notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, and town’s
grievance procedure under the Americans with Disabilities Act on its website
and at such other locations as may be determined from time to time.
(Res. 2013-11R, passed 11-12-2013; Res. 2019-11, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 31.13 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts the town’s Personnel Policy Handbook
dated January 27, 2012 and the policies contained therein as the town’s
policies relating to the employees of the town.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall have the authority to administer these policies
and to interpret or clarify these policies as needed.
(Res. 2012-11R, passed 5-8-2012)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Miscellaneous Organizations
   
32.01   Advisory Plan Commission
   
32.02   Law enforcement
   
32.03   Building Department
Department of Parks and Recreation
   
32.15   Board Composition
   
32.16   Terms of appointments
   
32.17   Board member removal procedure
   
32.18   Meetings; election of officers; quorum
   
32.19   Compensation
   
32.20   Duties
   
32.21   Powers
   
32.22   Sale of personal property declared to be surplus
   
32.23   Superintendent; appointment and qualifications; duties
   
32.24   Assistant Superintendent
   
32.25   Absence of Superintendent
   
32.26   Officers’ and employees’ bonds and crime policies
   
32.27   Advisory council; special committees
   
32.28   Gifts, donations, and subsidies
   
32.29   Special taxing district
   
32.30   Funds
   
32.31   Fees for activities
   
32.32   Acquisition of real property
   
32.33   Bonds
Cross-reference:
   Town Council, see
Ch. 30
MISCELLANEOUS ORGANIZATIONS
§ 32.01 ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established an Advisory Plan Commission for the town,
pursuant to the authority of I.C. 36-7-2-2.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The Town Board of Zoning Appeals.
      COMMISSION. The Advisory Plan Commission of the town.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive long-range guide, as adopted by the
town.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      TOWN. The Town of Leo-Cedarville, Indiana.
   (C)   The Commission shall consist of seven members as follows.
      (1)   The Council shall appoint three persons who must be elected or
appointed town officials or employees in the town as members.
      (2)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint four citizen
members of whom no more than two may be of the same political party.
      (3)   The Council shall appoint one member of the Commission to serve as
an advisory member to the County Plan Commission.
      (4)   The Council may create and appoint a technical advisory committee
or an ad-hoc committee at any time to assist the Commission in the performance
of its functions and duties.
   (D)   The term of office of a member of the Commission shall be as set forth
below.
      (1)   The term of office of a member who is appointed from the membership
of a legislative body is co-extensive with the member’s term of office on that
body.
      (2)   Upon the initial appointment, two of the non-elected members shall
have a term of three years and two of the non-elected members shall have a term
of four years. The terms shall expire on the first Monday in January of the
third or fourth year as the case may be. When the initial term of office for a
non-elected member expires, each new appointment is for a term of four years. A
member serves until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. A member
is eligible for reappointment.
      (3)   A member serves until his or her successor is appointed and is
qualified.
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs among the members of the Commission, the
Council shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the vacating member.
   (E)   A member of the Advisory Plan Commission may not participate in a
hearing or decision of that Commission concerning a matter in which he or she
has a direct or indirect financial interest. The Commission shall enter in its
records the fact of any disqualification.
   (F)   The duties and responsibilities of the Commission shall be:
      (1)   Prepare and recommend to the Council a comprehensive plan;
      (2)   Prepare and recommend to the Council zoning and subdivision control
ordinances;
      (3)   Receive and render decisions concerning the approval or disapproval
of all subdivision
plats or re-plats;
      (4)   Review all petitions for amendments to the zoning ordinances and
zone map and recommend approval or disapproval to the Council;
      (5)   Conduct public hearings as required by law concerning proposed
changes in the comprehensive plan, zoning ordinances, or other regulations and
provisions to this section;
      (6)   Review and revise the comprehensive plan, zoning ordinances, and
other regulations and provisions of title to ensure compliance with changing
conditions;
      (7)   Review all proposals of the abandonment or vacation of public
thoroughfares and platted lots and recommend approval or disapproval to the
Council;
      (8)   Appoint and prescribe the duties and fix the compensation to
employees as are necessary for the discharge of the duties of the Commission;
and
      (9)   Supervise and make rules for the administration of the affairs of
the Commission.
(Ord. 2.3-2, passed 1-5-1999)
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Law enforcement will be provided by the County Sheriff and the State
Police.
   (B)   There will be no Town Marshal appointed.
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.03 BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
   The town hereby adopts the county building ordinances adopted under the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-8-3, and the standards imposed by state law, and does
hereby designate the County Building Department as the town’s agent, pursuant
to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-8-7, and grants the department the authority to
enforce those ordinances and standards on behalf of the town, as well as any
additional standards set forth by the town ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 32.04)
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 32.15 BOARD COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The town’s Municipal Park Board, hereafter referred to as “the Board”,
shall be composed of four members appointed by the Town Council. Each of these
members must be a resident of the town. In addition, the Municipal Park Board
shall have one ex officio member who is a member of the governing body of the
East Allen County School Corporation, as selected by that body, or
alternatively a resident of the territory of the East Allen County School
Corporation as designated by the governing body of the School Corporation. The
ex officio member shall have all the rights of the regular Board members,
including the right to vote. A vacancy in the ex officio position shall be
filled by the School Corporation.
(I.C. 3-10-3-4(b) and I.C. 36-10-3-4(b))
   (B)   The Board members selected by the Town Council shall be selected as
follows.
      (1)   Board members shall be appointed on the basis of their knowledge
and interest of parks and recreation.
      (2)   No more than two members may be affiliated with the same political
party except in the situation described in I.C. 36-10-3-4.1 (waiver of
requirements) and following the prescribed waiver procedure.
      (3)   Members of the Board must be residents of the town.
      (4)   Municipal executives or members of the Town Council may not serve
on the Board.
(I.C. 36-10-3-4(e))
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.16 TERMS OF APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   Initial appointments to the Park Board are as follows:
      (1)   One member for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member for a term of two years;
      (3)   One member for a term of three years; and
      (4)   One member for a term of four years.
   (B)   As each term expires, each new appointment is for a four-year term.
All terms will expire on the first Monday in January, but a member continues in
office until a successor is appointed.
(I.C. 36-10-3-5(a)(1) - (a)(4))
   (C)   The Town Council shall make initial appointments within 90 days after
the creation of the town’s Municipal Park Board.
(I.C. 36-10-3-5(c))
   (D)   If an appointment for any new term is not made by the first Monday in
April, the incumbent shall serve another term.
(I.C. 36-10-3-5(d))
   (E)   In making initial appointments, the Town Council, in order to provide
continuity of experience and programs, shall give special consideration to the
appointment of members from previous Park or Recreation Boards.
(I.C. 36-10-3-5(e))
   (F)   If a vacancy on the Board occurs, the Town Council shall appoint a
person to serve for the remainder of the un-expired term.
(I.C. 36-10-3-5(f))
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.17 BOARD MEMBER REMOVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A member may be removed only for cause, upon specific, written charges
filed against him or her.
   (B)   The charges shall be filed with and heard by the Town Council, unless
the Town Council is bringing the charges. If the Town Council is bringing the
charges, the Town Council shall appoint a hearing officer.
   (C)   The person to hear the charges shall fix a date for a public hearing
and give public notice at least ten days in advance of the hearing.
   (D)   At the hearing, the member is entitled to present evidence and
argument and be represented by counsel.
(I.C. 36-10-3-6) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.18 MEETINGS; ELECTION OF OFFICERS; QUORUM.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   All meetings of the Board are open to the public.
      (2)   The Board shall fix and publicize the time and place of its regular
meetings.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly.
      (4)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Board President
or by any two Board members by written request to the Secretary. The Secretary
shall send to each member, at least two days before a special meeting, a
written notice fixing the time, place, and purpose of the meeting.
   (B)   Officers.
      (1)   At its first regular meeting each year the Board shall elect a
President and a Vice President.
      (2)   The Vice President may act as President during the absence or
disability of the President.
      (3)   The Board may select a Secretary either from within or outside its
membership.
   (C)   Quorum.
      (1)   A majority of the members constitutes a quorum.
      (2)   Action of the Board is not official unless it is authorized by at
least three members present and acting.
(I.C. 36-10-3-8) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.19 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Board members will be paid a per diem for each meeting of the Board
attended. The per diem will be set annually by the salary ordinance for the
town. (Refer to I.C. 36-4-7-3).
   (B)   Board members attending conferences dealing with park and recreation
problems may submit a claim for actual expenses, including registration fees,
additional educational materials, accommodations, and mileage, so long as there
is an appropriation for such expenses in the Board’s annual budget.
   (C)   Membership fees for professional organizations and professional
publications specific to park and recreational facility construction,
maintenance, operation, or management may be paid for so long as there is an
appropriation in the annual budget for such expenditures.
   (D)   The town will provide suitable quarters for holding meetings and
conducting the work of the Board.
(I.C. 36-10-3-9(b) - (d)) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.20 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall:
      (1)   Exercise general supervision of and make rules for the department;
      (2)   Establish rules governing the use of the park and recreation
facilities by the public;
      (3)   Provide police protection for its properties and activities by
requesting assistance from the municipal police force;
      (4)   Appoint the necessary administrative officers of the department and
fix their duties;
      (5)   Establish standards and qualifications for the appointment of all
personnel and recommend approval of their appointments, without regard to
politics;
      (6)   Make recommendations and an annual report to the Town Council
concerning the operation of the Board and the status of park and recreation
programs in the district;
      (7)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the Town Council; and
      (8)   Appoint a member of the Board to serve on another kind of board or
commission whenever a statute allows a park board to do this.
   (B)   The Board shall fix the compensation of officers and personnel
appointed under divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) above subject to I.C. 36-4-7-5 and
I.C. 36-4-7-6.
(I.C. 36-10-3-10) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.21 POWERS.
   (A)   The Board may:
      (1)   Enter into contracts and leases for facilities and services;
      (2)   Contract with persons for joint use of facilities for the operation
of park and recreation programs and related services;
      (3)   Contract with another board, unit, or school corporation for the
use of park and recreation facilities or services and a township or school
corporation may contract with the Board for the use of park and recreation
facilities or services;
      (4)   Acquire and dispose of real and personal property, either within or
outside, the state;
      (5)   Exercise the power of eminent domain under statutes available to
municipalities;
      (6)   Sell, lease, or enter into a royalty contract for the natural or
mineral resources of land that it owns, the money received to be deposited in a
nonreverting capital fund of the Board;
      (7)   Engage in self-supporting activities as prescribed in §
32.30(B);
      (8)   Contract for special and temporary services and for professional
assistance;
      (9)   Delegate authority to perform ministerial acts in all cases except
where final action of the Board is necessary;
      (10)   Prepare, publish, and distribute reports and other materials
relating to activities authorized by this chapter;
      (11)   Sue and be sued collectively by its legal name, as the “Leo-
Cedarville Municipal Park Board”, with service of process being had upon the
President of the Board, but costs may not be taxed against the Board or its
members in any action;
      (12)   Invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the enforcement
of this chapter, a park or recreation ordinance, or the Board’s own action
taken under either; and
      (13)   Release and transfer, by resolution, a part of the area over which
it has jurisdiction for park and recreational purposes to park authorities of
another unit for park and recreational purposes upon petition of the park or
recreation board of the acquiring unit.
   (B)   The Board may also lease any buildings or grounds belonging to the
unit and located within a park to a person for a period not to exceed 50 years.
The lease may authorize the lessee to provide upon the premises educational,
research, veterinary, or other proper facilities for the exhibition of wild or
domestic animals in wildlife parks, dining facilities, swimming facilities,
golf courses, skating facilities, dancing facilities, amusement rides generally
found in amusement parks, or other recreational facilities. A lease may be made
for more than one year only to the highest and best bidder, after notice that
the lease will be made has been given by publication in accordance with I.C. 5-
3-1.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (B) above, the Board may lease building or
grounds belonging to the unit for a period of more than one year without
soliciting the highest and best bidder or providing notice under I.C. 5-3-1 if:
      (1)   The buildings or grounds are leased to a state nonprofit
corporation;
      (2)   The buildings or grounds are operated as a public golf course; and
      (3)   The golf course remains subject to rules and regulations
promulgated by the Board.
(I.C. 36-10-3-11) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.22 SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY DECLARED TO BE SURPLUS.
   (A)   The Board may sell, or order sold through a designated representative,
by public or private sale, any personal property that the Board has declared to
be surplus at a regular or special meeting and has declared to have an
aggregate appraised value of $5,000 or less.
   (B)   Whenever the Board decides to sell at a private sale, the Board must
employ a qualified appraiser to determine a reasonable selling price for each
kind of surplus item and must publish, in the manner provided in I.C. 5-3-1:
      (1)   The fact that a private sale will be held;
      (2)   The location of the sale;
      (3)   The dates of the beginning and end of the sale;
      (4)   The time of day during which the sale will take place;
      (5)   The kinds of items to be sold at the sale; and
      (6)   The price of each kind of item, which may not be less than the
reasonable selling price determined by a qualified appraiser.
   (C)   If the Board decides to sell at a public sale, the Board shall conduct
the sale in the manner provided by law for the unit.
(I.C. 36-10-3-12) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.23 SUPERINTENDENT; APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The town’s Municipal Park Board may appoint a Superintendent of Parks
and Recreation. The Board may not consider political affiliation in the
selection of the Superintendent.
   (B)   The Superintendent must:
      (1)   Be qualified by training or experience in the field of parks and
recreation; or
      (2)   Have a certification or an advanced degree in the field of parks
and recreation.
   (C)   Under the direction of the Board, the Superintendent shall:
      (1)   Propose annually a plan for the operation of the department;
      (2)   Administer the plan as approved by the Board;
      (3)   Supervise the general administration of the department;
      (4)   Keep the records of the department and preserve all papers and
documents of the department;
      (5)   Recommend persons as appointment as assistants if the Board
determines there is a need;
      (6)   Appoint the employees of the department subject to the approval of
the Board and the Town Council, according to the standards and qualifications
fixed by the Board and the Town Council and without regard to political
affiliation;
      (7)   Prepare and present to the Board an annual report; and
      (8)   Perform other duties that the Board directs.
(I.C. 36-10-3-13 and I.C. 36-10-3-14) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.24 ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   If the Board determines that the size of the department’s operation
requires assistants for the Superintendent, the Board may appoint, upon
recommendation of the Superintendent, one or more assistants. The Board shall
determine their qualifications on a basis similar to that prescribed for the
Superintendent.
   (B)   Assistants are directly responsible to the Superintendent of Parks and
shall perform the duties specified by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Assistant superintendent of parks and recreation; appointment;
qualifications; duties, see I.C. 36-10-3-15
§ 32.25 ABSENCE OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   In the absence of a Superintendent of Parks and Recreation (duties qualified
and appointed under I.C. 36-10-3-13), the Town Manager, or the Town Manager’s
designee, shall perform the following duties for the Parks Department:
   (A)   Supervise the general administration of the department;
   (B)   Keep the records of the department and preserve all papers and
documents of the department;
   (C)   Recommend full- and part-time employees to be hired by the Board, if
the Board determines there is a need;
   (D)   Supervise the employees of the department subject to the approval of
the Board and the Town Council, according to the standards and qualifications
fixed by the Board and the Town Council and without regard to political
affiliation;
   (E)   Organize and supervise volunteers at Park Board functions;
   (F)   Prepare and present to the Board a report at the Board’s regular
monthly meetings; and
   (G)   Perform other duties that the Board directs, which shall not conflict
with the Town Manager’s general duties as set by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.26 OFFICERS’ AND EMPLOYEES’ BONDS AND CRIME POLICIES.
   (A)   Every officer and employee who handles money in the performance of
duties as prescribed by this chapter shall execute an official bond for the
term of office or employment before entering upon the duties of the office or
employment.
   (B)   The Town Council may, under I.C. 5-4-1-18, authorize the purchase of a
blanket bond or crime insurance policy endorsed to include faithful performance
to cover all officers’ and employees’ faithful performance of duties. The
amount of the bond or crime insurance policy shall be fixed by the Town Council
and must be approved by the Town Council President.
   (C)   All official bonds shall be filed and recorded in the office of the
County Recorder of the county in which the department is located.
   (D)   The Commissioner of Insurance shall prescribe the forms of the bonds
or crime policies required by this section.
(I.C. 36-10-3-16) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.27 ADVISORY COUNCIL; SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Board may create an advisory council and special committees
composed of citizens interested in parks and recreation.
   (B)   The Board shall give consideration to groups in the community
particularly interested in parks and recreation. In a resolution creating an
advisory council or special committee, the Board shall specify the terms of its
members and the purposes for which it is created.
   (C)   The advisory council or special committee shall:
      (1)   Study the subjects and problems specified by the Park Board and
recommend to the Board additional problems in need of study;
      (2)   Advise the Park Board concerning these subjects, particularly as
they relate to different areas and groups in the community; and
      (3)   Upon the invitation of the Park Board, sit with and participate in
the deliberations of the Board without the right to vote.
   (D)   The advisory council or a special committee shall report only to the
Park Board and shall make inquiries and reports only in those areas specified
by the Board’s resolution creating the council or committee.
(I.C. 36-10-3-17) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.28 GIFTS, DONATIONS, AND SUBSIDIES.
   (A)   The town’s Municipal Park Board may accept gifts, donations, and
subsidies for park and recreational purposes. However, a gift or transfer of
property to the Board may not be made without its approval.
   (B)   A gift or grant of money shall be deposited in a special nonreverting
fund to be available for expenditure by the Board for purposes specified by the
grantor. The Town Clerk-Treasurer may draw warrants against the fund only upon
vouchers signed by the Park Board President and Secretary of the Park Board.
(I.C. 36-10-3-18) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.29 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT.
   (A)   The territory within the boundaries of the town comprises a special
taxing district for the purpose of levying special benefit taxes for park and
recreational purposes as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Council shall determine and provide the revenues necessary
for the operation of the department or for capital expenditures not covered by
the issuance of bonds by:
      (1)   A specific levy to be used exclusively for these purposes;
      (2)   A special appropriation; or
      (3)   Both of these methods.
(I.C. 36-10-3-19) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.30 FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the request of the Board, the Town Council may establish,
by ordinance, a special nonreverting capital fund for the purposes of acquiring
land or making specific capital improvements. The Town Council may include in
the Park Board’s annual budget an item and an appropriation for these specific
purposes.
      (2)   Money placed in the nonreverting capital fund may not be withdrawn
except for the purposes for which the fund was created, unless the Town Council
repeals the ordinance. The Town Council may not repeal the ordinance under
suspension of the rules.
   (B)   (1)   The town’s Municipal Park Board may establish a cumulative
building fund under I.C. 6-1.1-41 to provide money for:
         (a)   Building, remodeling, and repair of park and recreation
facilities; or
         (b)   Purchase of land for park and recreation purposes.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements of I.C. 6-1.1-41, before a fund may
be established, the proposed action must be approved by the Town Council.
      (3)   To provide for the cumulative building fund, the Town Council may
levy a tax in compliance with I.C. 6-1.1-41 not to exceed one hundred sixty-
seven hundredths cents on each $100 of assessed valuation of taxable property
within the unit.
      (4)   The tax shall be collected and held in a special fund known as the
Town Park and Recreation Cumulative Building Fund.
(I.C. 36-10-3-20 and I.C. 36-10-3-21) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.31 FEES FOR ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Park and recreation facilities and programs shall be made available to
the public free of charge as far as possible. However, if it is necessary in
order to provide a particular activity, the Board may charge a reasonable fee.
   (B)   The Town Council may establish by ordinance, upon request of the
Board:
      (1)   A special nonreverting operating fund for park purposes from which
expenditures may be made as provided by ordinance, either by appropriation by
the Board or by the Town Council; or
      (2)   A special nonreverting capital fund for the purpose of acquiring
land or making specific capital improvements from which expenditures may be
made by appropriation of the Town Council. The Town Council shall designate the
fund or funds into which the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit fees from golf
courses, swimming pools, skating rinks, or other major facilities requiring
major expenditures for management and maintenance. Money received from fees
other than from major facilities or received from the sale of surplus property
shall be deposited by the Clerk-Treasurer either in the special nonreverting
operating fund or in the nonreverting capital fund as directed by the Park
Board. However, if neither fund has been established, money received from fees
or the sale of surplus property shall be deposited in the unit’s general fund.
Money from either special fund may be disbursed on approved claims allowed and
signed.
(I.C. 36-10-3-22) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.32 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   This section applies only to:
      (1)   The acquisition of real property; or
      (2)   A work of improvement that will be financed by the issuance of
bonds.
   (B)   If the Park Board decides to:
      (1)   Acquire land for any of the purposes prescribed in this chapter,
either by purchase or improvement authorized by this chapter;
      (2)   Acquire real property without proceeding at the time with a work of
improvement; or
      (3)   Proceed with a work of improvement where the real property has been
already secured; it shall adopt a resolution stating the purpose, describing
the land to be acquired, the manner of acquisition, and, in the case of an
appropriation, the other land that may be injuriously affected, or describing
the lands already acquired and intended to be used in connection with the
proposed work of improvement.
   (C)   If a work of improvement is provided for in the resolution, the Park
Board shall have preliminary plans and specifications and an estimate of the
cost of the proposed work prepared by the engineer selected to do the work. The
resolution must be open to inspection by all persons interested in or affected
by the appropriation of land or the construction of the work. The Park Board
shall have notice of the resolution and its contents published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1. The notice must state a date on which the Park Board will
receive or hear remonstrance’s from persons interested in or affected by the
proceedings and on which it will determine the public utility and benefit.
   (D)   Notice shall be sent by certified mail to each owner of land to be
appropriated under the resolution, using the owner’s address as shown on the
tax duplicates. In addition, notice of the land to be appropriated shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in local newspapers. All persons
affected in any manner by the proceedings, including all taxpayers in the
district, are considered notified of the pendency of the proceedings and of all
subsequent acts, hearings, adjournments, and orders of the Park Board by the
original notice by publication.
   (E)   In the resolution and notice, separate descriptions of each piece or
parcel of land are not required, but it is a sufficient description of the
property purchased, to be purchased, or to be appropriated or damaged to give a
description of the entire tract by a platted description or by metes and
bounds, whether the land is composed of one or more lots or parcels and whether
it is owned by one or more persons. If the land or a part of it is to be
acquired by purchase, the resolution must also state the maximum proposed cost.
   (F)   The Park Board may, at any time before the adoption of the resolution:
      (1)   Obtain from the owner or owners of the land an option for its
purchase; or
      (2)   Enter into a contract for its purchase upon the terms and
conditions that the Board considers best.
   (G)   The option or contract is subject to the final action of the Park
Board confirming, modifying, or rescinding the resolution and to the condition
that the land may be paid for only out of the special fund resulting from the
sale of bonds as provided by this subchapter.
   (H)   If the Board decides to acquire any lots or parcels of land by
purchase, the Board shall appoint two qualified appraisers to appraise the fair
market value of the land. Each appraiser must be professionally engaged in
making appraisals or be trained as an appraiser and licensed as a broker under
I.C. 25-34.1. The appraisers may not be interested directly or indirectly in
any land that is to be acquired under the resolution or that may be injured or
incur local benefits. The appraisers shall take an oath that they have no
interest in the matter and that they will honestly and impartially make the
valuation. The appraisers shall return the appraisers’ separate appraisals to
the Park Board not more than 30 days after the date of their appointment. The
appraisals shall be filed with and become a part of the record of the
proceeding.
   (I)   The Board may not take an option on the land or enter into a contract
to purchase it at a price greater than the average of the two appraisals
received under division (H) above. The title to land to be acquired under the
resolution, whether by purchase or appropriation, does not vest until the land
is paid for out of the special fund established by the sale of bonds as
provided in this chapter. Any indebtedness or obligation of any kind incurred
by the Board due to the acquisition of land or to construction work shall be
paid out of the funds under the control of the Park Board and is not an
indebtedness or obligation of the town.
   (J)   At the time fixed for the hearing, or at any time before the hearing,
an owner of land to be appropriated under the resolution or injuriously
affected or a person owning real or personal property located in the district
may file a written remonstrance with the Secretary of the Park Board.
   (K)   At the hearing, which may be adjourned from time to time, the Park
Board shall hear all persons interested in the proceedings and all
remonstrances that have been filed. After considering the evidence, the Park
Board shall take final action determining the public utility and benefit of the
proposed project by confirming, modifying, or rescinding the resolution. The
final action shall be recorded and is final and conclusive upon all persons.
(I.C. 36-10-3-23) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 32.33 BONDS.
   (A)   Municipal Park Board bonds; purpose; denominations; interest exempt
from taxation; limitations.
      (1)   In order to raise money to pay for land to be acquired for any of
the purposes named in this subchapter, to pay for an improvement authorized by
this subchapter, or both, and in anticipation of the special benefit tax to be
levied as provided in this subchapter, the Park Board shall cause to be issued,
in the name of the town, the bonds of the district. The bonds may not exceed in
amount the total cost of all land to be acquired and all improvements described
in the resolution, including all expenses necessarily incurred in connection
with the proceedings, together with a sum sufficient to pay the costs of
supervision and inspection during the period of construction of a work. The
expenses to be covered in the bond issue include all expenses of every kind
actually incurred preliminary to acquiring the land and the construction of the
work, such as the cost of the necessary record, engineering expenses,
publication of notices, preparation of bonds, and other necessary expenses. If
more than one resolution or proceeding of the Park Board under §
32.32 is confirmed whereby different parcels of land are to be acquired, or
more than one contract for work is let by the Park Board at approximately the
same time, the cost involved under all of the resolutions and proceedings may
be included in one issue of bonds.
      (2)   The bonds may be issued in any denomination not less than $1,000
each, in not less than five nor more than 40 annual series. The bonds are
payable one series each year, beginning at a date after the receipt of taxes
from a levy made for that purpose. The bonds are negotiable. The bonds may bear
interest at any rate, payable semi-annually. After adopting a resolution
ordering bonds, the Park Board shall certify a copy of the resolution to the
Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare the bonds and the Town
Council President shall execute them, attested by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The bonds and the interest on them are exempt from taxation as
prescribed by I.C. 6-8-5-1. Bonds issued under this division (A) are subject to
the provisions of I.C. 5-1 and I.C. 6-1.1-20 relating to the filing of a
petition requesting the issuance of bonds, the right of taxpayers and voters to
remonstrate against the issuance of bonds, the appropriation of the proceeds of
the bonds and approval by the Department of Local Government Finance, and the
sale of bonds at public sale for not less than their par value.
      (4)   The Park Board may not have bonds of the district issued under this
division (A) that are payable by special taxation when the total issue for that
purpose, including the bonds already issued or to be issued, exceeds 2% of the
adjusted value of the taxable property in the district as determined under I.C.
36-1-15. All bonds or obligations issued in violation of this division (A)(4)
are void. The bonds are not obligations or indebtedness of the town, but
constitute an indebtedness of the district as a special taxing district. The
bonds and interest are payable only out of a special tax levied upon all the
property of the district as prescribed by this chapter. The bonds must recite
the terms upon their face, together with the purposes for which they are
issued.
   (B)   Bonds; notice; hearing; ordinance approving issue.
      (1)   Before bonds may be issued under §
32.32, the Park Board shall give notice of a public hearing to disclose the
purposes for which the bond issue is proposed, the amount of the proposed
issue, and all other pertinent data.
      (2)   The Board shall have published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 a
notice of the time, place, and purposes of the hearing.
      (3)   After the public hearing and before additional proceedings on the
bond issues, the Board must obtain an ordinance approving the bond issue from
the Town Council.
   (C)   Bonds; disposition of proceeds. All proceeds from the sale of bonds
issued under §
32.33 shall be kept in a separate fund. The fund shall be used to pay for land
and other property acquired and for the construction of a work under the
resolution, including all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the
project. The fund may not be used for any other purpose. The fund shall be
deposited as provided in this chapter. A surplus remaining from the proceeds of
the bonds after all costs and expenses are paid shall be paid into and becomes
a part of the Park District Bond Fund.
   (D)   Levy of special tax on real and personal property; Park District Bond
Fund.
      (1)   In order to raise money to pay all bonds issued under §
32.33, the Park Board shall levy annually a special tax upon all of the real
and personal property located in the district sufficient to pay the principal
of the bonds as they mature, including accrued interest. The Board shall have
the tax to be levied each year certified to the auditor of the county in which
the district is located at the time for certification of tax levies. The tax
shall be collected and enforced by the County Treasurer in the same manner as
other taxes are collected and enforced.
      (2)   As the tax is collected, it shall be accumulated and kept in a
separate fund to be known as the Park District Bond Fund. The tax shall be
applied to the payment of the district bonds and interest as they mature and
may not be used for another purpose.
   (E)   Primary obligation on bond. If the board or district created under
I.C. 36-10-3-3 is discontinued, the primary obligation on its bonds is not
affected, and the town assumes liability for the payment of the bonds according
to their terms.
(I.C. 36-10-3-24; I.C. 36-10-3-25; I.C. 36-10-3-26; I.C. 36-10-3-27; and I.C.
36-10-3-28) (Ord. 2017-11, passed 12-14-2017)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Claim payments
   
33.02   Business operations startup
   
33.03   Fees for production of public documents
   
33.04   Town cell phone policy
   
33.05   National Incident Management System
   
33.06   Anti-nepotism policy
   
33.07   Donations by the town
   
33.08   Multi-hazard mitigation plan
   
33.09   Public records policy
§ 33.01 CLAIM PAYMENTS.
    (A)   In accordance with I.C. 36-5-4-12, notwithstanding any provision of
this section, expenditures may not take place without an appropriation of funds
for that purpose.
   (B)   Upon complying with the provisions of I.C. 5-11-10-1.6(c)(1) - (c)(4),
the Leo-Cedarville Clerk/Treasurer may make claim payments in advance of Town
Council approval for the following claims:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from;
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds and promissory notes;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Credit card payments, payments on installment agreements, or
accounts arising in the ordinary course of the town's business which must be
paid in order to avoid a late fee or penalty;
      (14)   Fuel bills;
      (15)   Park deposit refund or park rental cancellation refund; or
      (16)   Any claim that will incur a late charge if due date falls before a
scheduled council meeting;
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may make meal expense advances to a town employee
who is authorized to travel on official town business and who will be out of
town for more than 24 hours. The maximum amount of such advance shall be $50
per day of travel. The advance may only be made if the employee first signs a
written agreement stating that he/she shall submit receipts along with an
expense report for all meals to the Clerk-Treasurer within three business days
of his/her return from the trip. All receipts must show itemization of
purchases, and that the cost of alcohol shall not be reimbursed. The agreement
signed by the employee must further state that the employee allows the town to
withhold from his/her wages the amount of any advances that he/she fails to
substantiate with the required receipts and expense report specified herein
(see I.C. 5-11-10-1.6).
   (D)   Each payment under this section must be supported by a fully itemized
claim. A majority of the Council shall review and allow or disallow the claim
at the next regular Town Council meeting.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 3-13-2012; Ord. 2022-17, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 33.02 BUSINESS OPERATIONS STARTUP.
   When state tax revenues are received by the town, all expenditures from the
Incorporation Fund which were used to start up operations for the town are to
be reimbursed to the Incorporation Fund from the town’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 FEES FOR PRODUCTION OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8, the following fee schedule is hereby
established for copies of public records made by the town and each of its
departments, offices, and boards.
      (1)   For copies produced in any format, including, but not limited to,
standard sized photo-copies, oversized copies, computer tapes, disks, CDs, or
microfilm, the fee shall be equal to the direct cost of supplying the
information in that form.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the term DIRECT COST shall mean the
cost of paper, computer diskette, CD, or other medium and the per-page cost for
use of copying equipment.
      (3)   This fee schedule shall not apply in any instance where another fee
is specified by statute or ordered by a court. In such event, the fee shall be
equal to the fee that is specified by statute or court order.
   (B)   The Town Manager and Clerk-Treasurer are hereby authorized at their
discretion to allow persons to inspect public documents in the Town Office and
to allow such persons to use the town copy machine to make copies of public
documents during normal office hours when the Town Manager or Clerk-Treasurer
are present at the office. In all instances, no copies of documents may be
removed from the Town Office until the copy fee is paid.
   (C)   The funds received for copies pursuant to this section shall be given
to the Clerk-Treasurer and deposited into the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2006-11, passed 9-5-2006)
§ 33.04 TOWN CELL PHONE POLICY.
   (A)   Cell phone plans. The Town Council has determined that cell phones may
be assigned when the elected official or department head determines either that
the job function of the employee requires considerable time outside of the
assigned office or work area and it is important to the town that the employee
is accessible or the job function of the employee requires the employee to be
accessible outside of scheduled or normal working hours. All cell phones issued
by the town shall be provided by a single provider as selected by the Town
Council. The Council shall designate the available plans for cell phone usage
and the Town Manager shall select the appropriate plan after consulting with
the department head, and has determined the following regarding cell phone
usage.
   (B)   Use of cell phones.
      (1)   Town phone usage should be limited to town business whenever
possible.
      (2)   The town recognizes that the employee does not control incoming
calls and that at times the interpretation as to whether a specific call is
business related may be open to interpretation.
      (3)   The town expects employees to exercise prudent judgment in keeping
personal phone calls to a minimum.
   (C)   Reimbursement for personal use.
      (1)   Because personal use may be inevitable and it is not always
practical to carry more than one cell phone or reimburse on a call by call
basis, the town will require that any employee with a town cell phone reimburse
the town as follows.
         (a)   No reimbursement will be required if the employee shows proof of
a personal cell phone and cell phone plan and does not initiate personal calls
on the town phone.
         (b)   The employee may use the town phone for personal calls if
authorized by the Town Manager and will have the tax as required by the IRS for
personal use deducted by the Clerk-Treasurer from the employee’s payroll.
         (c)   Due to the desire for elected officials to be accessible, they
may also participate in the town cell phone plan but will have the entire fee
deducted from by the Clerk-Treasurer from the elected official’s payroll.
      (2)   The employee is responsible for the purchase of the cell phone if a
free phone is not available or preferred by the employee. The employee and or
Council member is responsible for any accessories that they may choose for
their cell phones.
   (D)   Recall of cell phones. The town reserves the right to cancel the cell
phone of any town employee for abuse of cell phone privileges or department
budgetary restraints. Upon separation of employment, the employee is required
to turn in all town property including the free cell phone if chosen by the
employee. If an employee opted to purchase a phone, the employee may keep the
phone but the service will be terminated upon separation on either the free
cell phone or purchased cell phone belonging to the employee.
   (E)   Theft, loss, or damage of cell phone. It shall be the responsibility
of the employee to whom the cell phone is assigned to protect the town-assigned
cell phone from theft, loss, or damage. The employee will be responsible for
the replacement of and/or insurance of the employee cell phone. The town
reserves the right to require the employee to reimburse the town for the theft,
loss, or damage to the cell phone which results from employee negligence as
determined upon investigation.
   (F)   Disclosure. It is the policy of the town to maintain the right of
access and disclose any and all messages communicated through electronic means
when town-owned equipment is used, regardless of the intent of the message
(business or personal), any employee involved has no right of privacy, or the
expectation of privacy, concerning the content of any message or the intended
destination.
(Res. 2012-04R, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 33.05 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the National Incident Management System dated
May 9, 2008.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 8-18-2009)
§ 33.06 ANTI-NEPOTISM POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or performance evaluation.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the town on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the town. The term does not
include a person who holds an elected office. The term does not include the
performance of duties of:
         (a)   A precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that
are imposed by I.C. Title 3; or
         (b)   The performance of duties of a volunteer firefighter.
      GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE. An employee of the town. The term does not include
an individual who holds an elected office. The term does not include a
volunteer board position with the town.
      RELATIVE. A spouse, parent, step-parent, grand-parent, child (biological
or adopted), step-child, sibling, half-sibling, step-sibling, niece, nephew,
aunt, uncle, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, mother-in-law, or father-in-law.
   (B)   Policy one: anti-nepotism.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives may not be employed by the town in a
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
      (2)   Exclusions:
         (a)   An individual who is employed by the town on July 1, 2012 is not
subject to this policy, unless the individual has a break in employment with
the town.
         (b)   The term BREAK IN EMPLOYMENT shall not include paid or unpaid
leaves of absence for vacation, sick time, or family or medical leave, nor
shall it include any situation where an employee is terminated, but immediately
re-employed by the town without a break in payroll time.
         (c)   An individual who has been employed by the town for more than 90
days and who is employed by the town when a relative of the individual begins
serving a term of an elected office of the unit, may remain employed by the
town even if the relative is in the direct line of supervision of the
individual. However, such individual may not be promoted to a position if the
new position would be in the direct line of supervision by the relative.
         (d)   Nothing in this policy shall abrogate or affect the terms of an
employment contract between an individual and the town that is in effect on the
date the individual’s relatives begin serving a term of an elected office.
   (C)   Policy two: contracting restrictions. The town may enter into a
contract or renew a contract for the procurement of goods and services or
contract for public works with an individual who is a relative of an elected
official or a business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a relative
of an elected official only if:
      (1)   The provisions of I.C.35-44.1-1-4 are not violated;
      (2)   The elected official issues a public disclosure if required by I.C.
35-44.1-1-4;
      (3)   The elected official files a full disclosure with the town, which
must:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the unit;
         (c)   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
         (d)   Is affirmed under the penalties of perjury;
         (e)   Is submitted to the Town Council and accepted by the Town
Council in a public meeting prior to the final action on the contract or
purchase; and
         (f)   Is filed not less than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts and the Clerk of the
County Circuit Court.
      (4)   The appropriate agency or officer of the town:
         (a)   Issues a written, certified statement that the contract amount
or purchase price was the lowest amount, price, or bid offered; or
         (b)   Issues a certified statement if the reason why the vendor or
contractor was selected; and
      (5)   The town otherwise complies with the provisions of I.C. 5-22
(public purchases) and I.C. 36-1-12 (public works projects) and the town’s
purchasing ordinance.
      (6)   This policy does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time of the term of office of the elected official begins.
   (D)   Policy three: town officers as town employees. Pursuant to I.C. 3-5-9-
5, an individual who assumes an elected office of the town is considered to
have resigned from any position of employment that the individual held with the
town except that individuals who assume or hold an elected office on January 1,
2013 may continue to hold the elected office and remain employed by the town
until the term of office that the elected official is serving on January 1,
2013 expires.
   (E)   Certifications. Each elected officer of the town shall annually
certify in writing, subject to the penalties of perjury, that the officer has
not violated this policy. Such certification shall be submitted to the Town
Council President no later than December 31 of each year. The Town Council
President shall submit all written certifications to the Clerk-Treasurer, who
shall maintain such certifications in a file.
   (F)   Miscellaneous. These policies shall not be construed in a manner that
is broader than the requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2 or I.C. 36-1-21. Any
provision of this policy that is interpreted to be more permissive than
required by those statutes (as they are interpreted by the courts) shall be
null and void and the remaining portions of this policy shall remain in effect.
(Res. 2012-14R, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 33.07 DONATIONS BY THE TOWN
   All donations by the town to any third party, shall be made by ordinance,
and any such ordinance shall be passed in compliance with I.C. 36-5-2-9.4
through I.C. 36-5-2-9.8.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 33.08 MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Allen County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan, dated October 2017, as
prepared by the POLIS Center at IOPUI and as approved by the Allen County
Commissioners and the City of Fort Wayne, is adopted in its entirety and
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 9-19-2019)
§ 33.09 PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to provide rules by which the
town and its departments implement and ensure compliance with the provisions of
IC 5-14-3 (Access to Public Records) for the town's public records.
   (B)   Interpretation and construction. The provisions of this policy shall
be liberally interpreted and construed to promote full access to the town's
public records in order to assure continuing public confidence in government:
provided, that when making public records available the town shall prevent
unreasonable invasions of privacy, shall protect public records from damage or
disorganization, and shall prevent excessive interference with essential
government functions.
   (C)   Public records available. Public records shall be made available for
public inspection and copying pursuant to IC 5-14-3.
   (D)   Public Information Officer.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall serve as the Public Information Officer,
and serve as the point of contact for members of the public who request
disclosure of public records. The Public Information Officer shall be
responsible for implementation of and compliance with IC 5-14-3.
      (2)   The Public Information Officer may utilize the Town Manager, Town
Attorney, Office Administrator or other town officers or employees to assist in
responding to public information requests.
   (E)   Public records requests; how made.
      (1)   Public records may be inspected and/or copies may be obtained under
the following procedures:
         (a)   A request for public records shall be directed to the Public
Information Officer or its designee.
      (2)   A request for public records shall be made on a specific form which
shall be in writing and include the following information:
         (a)   The requester's name, mailing address, phone number and email
address (if one is available);
         (b)   The date of the request;
         (c)   A clear indication that the document is a "Public Records
Request";
         (d)   A clear description of the public records requested for
inspection and/or copying;
         (e)   If the request is for a document which lists individuals, a
statement that the list will not be used for any commercial purposes or that
the requester is authorized or directed by law to obtain the list of
individuals for commercial purposes, with a specific reference to such law; and
         (f)   Whether the request is for printed or digital copies of the
public record.
      (2)   The Public Information Officer shall develop and maintain the form
to facilitate public record requests.
   (F)   Inspection of public records; where and when. Public records shall be
inspected at the Town Hall during regular business hours, excluding legal
holidays: provided, that there is no obligation to allow inspection immediately
upon a demand. The Public Information Officer may request that the person
seeking to inspect public records schedule an appointment for inspection.
   (G)   Response to public records requests.
      (1)   The Public Information Officer shall, to the extent practicable,
assist requesters in identifying the public records sought.
      (2)   There is no obligation to allow inspection or provide a copy of a
public record on demand.
      (3)   The Public Information Officer shall respond to a request for
public information made in person within 24 business hours of the receipt of
the written request form.
      (4)   The Public Information Officer shall respond to a request for
public information received by mail, or email within seven calendar days of
receipt.
      (5)   All responses to requests for public information shall be in
writing.
      (6)   The Public Information Officer shall make one or more of the
following responses:
         (a)   The request for inspection of public records is approved and
whether an appointment for inspection needs to be scheduled by the requester;
         (b)   The request has been received by the Public Information Officer,
that additional time is needed to respond to the request, and stating a
reasonable estimate of the time required to respond;
         (c)   The request has been received by the Public Information Officer
and the records shall be provided on a partial or installment basis as the
records are identified, located, assembled and/or made ready for inspection or
copying; or
         (d)   The request is denied, in whole or in part, whether by
withholding a requested record or redacting a requested record, stating the
specific exemption(s) prohibiting disclosure and a brief explanation of how the
exemption applies to each withheld and redacted record.
      (7)   The Public Information Officer shall immediately notify the
requester if, after responding to a request for public records and approving
the request, the Public Information Officer identifies requested public records
or information that are exempt from disclosure.
      (8)   Additional time to respond to a request may be based upon the
town's need to:
         (a)   Clarify the intent of the request;
         (b)   Identify, locate, assemble and/or make the records ready for
inspection or disclosure;
         (c)   Notify third persons or agencies affected by the request; or
         (d)   Determine whether any of the records or information requested is
exempt from disclosure and whether a denial should be made as to all or part of
the request.
      (9)   If a requester fails to clarify the request after receiving a
response from the Public Information Officers seeking clarification, the Public
Information Officer need not respond further to the request.
      (10)   When a request for public records is received that concerns a
subject known to involve litigation that is pending, threatened or anticipated,
the Public Information Officer shall promptly notify the Town Attorney of the
request. Each page of the records provided to the requester shall be
sequentially numbered or otherwise uniquely identified. Copies of the request,
all correspondence between the Public Information Officer and the requester,
and copies of the public records provided to the requester shall be delivered
to the Town Attorney. The requester shall not be charged for copies delivered
to the Town Attorney.
   (H)   Copying fees.
      (1)   No fee will be charged for the inspection of a public record; for
locating public records in response to a request and making the records
available for inspection or copying; or for searching for public records,
redacting portions of a record which are exempt from disclosure, or preparing
an index of exempt documents.
      (2)   The fee for certification of documents shall be $2 per document.
      (3)   The fee for copies shall be $0.10 per page for non-color copies and
$0.25 per page for color copies.
      (4)   The copying fee for any request for which the response will be
oversized documents, color photographs or reproductions, tape recordings and
computer disks shall be the actual expense for copying, including the cost of
materials.
   (I)   Copies of policy available to public. Copies of this policy and public
records request forms shall be available to and provided to the public, without
cost, at the Town Hall. Electronic copies shall be made available to the public
on the town's website.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-7-2020)
Cross reference:
   Public records, see §
30.27
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Funds
   
34.01   Accounting of town funds
   
34.02   COIT/LIT Public Safety Distribution Fund
   
34.03   Fund 263 Rainy Day Restricted-MVH for MVH Transfers
   
34.04   LOIT Special Distribution Fund; Park Pavilion Fire Insurance Proceeds
Fund
   
34.05   Riverside Gardens Construction Fund
   
34.06   Freedom Festival Donations Fund
   
34.07   Petty cash funds
   
34.08   Solid Waste Services Fund
   
34.09   Cumulative Capital Bridge Fund
   
34.10   Riverside Gardens Park Donations Fund
   
34.11   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.12   Cumulative Fire Fund
   
34.13   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.14   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
34.15   Community Crossings Matching Grant Fund
Purchasing Procedures
   
34.25   Designation of purchasing agency and purchasing agent
   
34.26   Authority of purchasing agent
   
34.27   Purchase of United States products
   
34.28   Bidding requirements
   
34.29   Purchases of services
   
34.30   Special purchases
   
34.31   Insurance requirements for service contracts
   
34.32   Alternate purchasing agents
   
34.33   Internal control standards; materiality threshold
   
34.34   Returned check fee
   
34.35   Recording fixed assets
   
34.36   Electronic funds transfers and online banking
Credit Card
   
34.50   Authorization to maintain credit card
   
34.51   Credit limit
   
34.52   Authorized users
   
34.53   Receipt of purchase
   
34.54   Use limitations
   
34.55   Purchase order form
   
34.56   Information to be provided
   
34.57   Payment of bill
Investment Policy
   
34.65   Purpose
   
34.66   Scope
   
34.67   General objectives
   
34.68   Standards of care
   
34.69   Authorized financial institutions, depositories, and broker/dealers
   
34.70   Suitable and authorized investments
   
34.71   Investment diversification and constraints
   
34.72   Reporting
   
34.73   Policy considerations
FUNDS
§ 34.01 ACCOUNTING OF TOWN FUNDS.
   As a condition for expending an appropriation equal to or greater than
$1,000 in a calendar year from any fund that is supported by the collection of
any tax, regardless of the origin of said tax, when the expenditure will be
paid to a nongovernmental entity in the form of a contribution is support of a
valid public purpose, it is hereby required that:
   (A)   The Town Council or the Town Board that approves the payment of the
contribution shall make it a condition of the payment that the nongovernmental
entity receiving the funds provide to the Town Clerk-Treasurer an accounting of
the total donations and other fund-raising revenues received by the entity and
of the expenditures completed specific to the public purpose that the town is
seeking to promote;
   (B)   Such accounting shall be provided to the Clerk-Treasurer within 90
days after the activity or event’s conclusion; and
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a copy of the accounting to the Town
Council or the Board that approved the expenditure prior to next meeting
following the receipt of the accounting.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 34.02 COIT/LIT PUBLIC SAFETY DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   Fund. There is hereby established the town’s COIT/LIT Public Safety
Fund No. 249.
   (B)   Revenue sources for the Fund. The revenue source for the COIT/LIT
Public Safety Fund, shall be/include the COIT/LIT Public Safety distributions
from the County Auditor.
   (C)   Distributions from the Fund. The town may only withdraw money from the
Fund for law enforcement expenses or any other public safety expense as defined
by I.C. 6-3.5-6-31(a).
   (D)   Transfer of money into the Fund. The Town Council hereby authorizes
the Clerk-Treasurer to transfer $12,127.28 from the General Fund into the COIT/
LIT Public Safety Fund.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-25-2016)
§ 34.03 FUND 263 RAINY DAY RESTRICTED-MVH FOR MVH TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Fund. There is hereby established the town’s Fund 236 Rainy Day
Restricted-MVH for MVH Transfers.
   (B)   Distributions from the Fund. The Fund is restricted to matching grant
money from the INDOT Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund for local road
projects.
   (C)   Transfer of money into the Fund. The Town Council hereby authorizes
the Clerk-Treasurer to transfer $125,000 of existing MVH money into the Fund
236 Rainy Day Restricted-MVH for MVH Transfers.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 8-25-2016)
§ 34.04 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND; PARK PAVILION FIRE INSURANCE PROCEEDS
FUND.
   (A)   Funds.
      (1)   There is hereby established the town’s LOIT Special Distribution
Fund, No. 257.
      (2)   There is hereby established the town’s Park Pavilion Fire Insurance
Proceeds Fund, No. 480.
   (B)   Revenue sources for the funds.
      (1)   The exclusive revenue source for the LOIT Special Distribution
Fund, No. 257, shall be the restricted portion of the special distribution
received from the County Auditor.
      (2)   The exclusive revenue source for the Park Pavilion Fire Insurance
Proceeds Fund, No. 480, shall be the monies received from the town’s insurance
carrier to cover the cost of damage to the park pavilion and the personal
property contained therein.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 5-26-2016)
§ 34.05 RIVERSIDE GARDENS CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   Fund. There is hereby established the town’s Riverside Gardens
Improvement Project Construction Fund (“the Fund”). This is a nonreverting,
capital projects fund.
   (B)   Revenue sources for the Fund. The surplus loan proceeds from the iAB
lam ($330,000) shall be the revenue source for the Fund. In addition, any
matching grant funds from the federal or state government relating to the park
development, and any donations made to the town for the park’s improvement may
be put into the Fund.
   (C)   Authorizing expenditures.
      (1)   The Town Council hereby appropriates the revenue in the Fund for
use in completing the Riverside Gardens Improvement Project including payment
of all design, engineering, surveying, testing, and construction costs on the
project. Any excess loan proceeds remaining in the Fund following completion of
the Riverside Gardens Improvement Project shall be used to repay accrued
interest and outstanding principal on the iAB loan.
      (2)   The first $330,000 unrestricted donations for the park that are
deposited into the Fund (i.e., donations that are not restricted by the donor
for another specific use in the park) shall be first applied to repaying
accrued interest and outstanding principal on the iAB loan before being used
for any other park project.
      (3)   The Council appropriates any excess money in the Fund, following
completion of the Riverside Gardens Improvement Project and repayment in full
of all accrued interest and principal of the iAB loan, for use in maintaining
the Riverside Garden’s Park or for payment of other capital projects on the
park.
(Ord. 2013-4, passed 7-9-2013)
§ 34.06 FREEDOM FESTIVAL DONATIONS FUND.
   (A)   The Freedom Festival Donations Fund shall be maintained as an active
fund of the town.
   (B)   All donations received by the town for the Freedom Festival or the 5K
Freedom Run shall be deposited into the Fund. All such money may be used to pay
expenses of the Freedom Festival and/or 5K Freedom Run for 2012 or for any
subsequent year.
(Res. 2012-12R, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 34.07 PETTY CASH FUNDS.
   (A)   As provided by I.C. 36-4-8-3, the Town Council hereby creates the
following funds to serve as the petty cash funds for the following departments.
 
Fund           Department         Custodian                 Amount
Office/general Town Office        Clerk-Treasurer           $200
Office/general Town Office        Town Manager/f/k/a Zoning $250
                                  Administrator
Stormwater     Stormwater Utility Stormwater/Billing Clerk  $100
 
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to issue warrants in the
town’s General Fund in favor of each of the above listed custodians for the
above ascribed amounts in order to establish the above listed funds.
   (C)   The custodians of each respective fund shall use the fund only to pay
for small or emergency items of operating expense. An expenditure from a fund
cannot be made without the custodian obtaining a receipt for the expenditure.
   (D)   The custodians of each respective fund shall periodically file a claim
with the Clerk-Treasurer, attaching with said claim original receipts totaling
the cash claimed to be expended so that the petty cash fund may be reimbursed
for these expenditures. The claim for reimbursement of any fund shall be
approved and made in the same manner as is required for other expenditures of
the town.
   (E)   Any individual who holds a position listed above who does not want a
petty cash fund shall so notify the Clerk-Treasurer in writing. The entire fund
shall be returned to the town’s General Fund if it is not being used. Such
notification does not revoke the permission to later use such fund.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 34.08 SOLID WASTE SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby creates a Solid Waste Services Fund that shall
be used solely for the purpose of depositing fees as itemized and charged on
the town’s established stormwater utility bill.
   (B)   Furthermore, the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make payment
against the balance of the Fund for any claim made by the solid waste services
provider for contracted services rendered. Payment may be in advance of Town
Council approval pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-5-4-12 and shall be
included on the next line-item voucher form that is submitted to the Town
Council for approval.
   (C)   (1)   Any balance in the Fund not expended for, or committed to, the
purpose of satisfying the provisions of the contract with the solid waste
services provider shall remain in the Fund and shall be reported to the Town
Council within 30 days following the expiration of the previous year’s contract
date.
      (2)   The Town Council may at this time resolve to transfer such balance
into the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 34.09 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL BRIDGE FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the establishment of Cumulative Capital Bridge
Fund for the purposes as set out by I.C. 8-16-3-3.
   (B)   The Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 8-16-3-3. Proposed
Fund will not exceed $0.01 on each $100 of assessed value. Said tax rate will
be levied beginning with taxes for 2008 payable 2009.
   (C)   Proofs of publication of the public hearing held on June 17, 2008 and
a certified copy of Ord. 2008-03 be submitted to the state’s Department of
Local Government Finance as provided by law. Said Cumulative Fund is subject to
the approval of the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 7-15-2008)
§ 34.10 RIVERSIDE GARDENS PARK DONATIONS FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Fund. There is hereby established a Riverside Gardens Park
Donation Fund to receive transfers of money donated to the town for use in the
development or maintenance or operation of the Riverside Gardens Park.
   (B)   Purposes of Fund. The funds on deposit in the Riverside Gardens Park
Donation Fund may be used solely for the purposes of developing, maintaining,
or operating the Riverside Gardens Park.
   (C)   Appropriations from Fund. Pursuant to Attorney General Official
Opinion No. 68, and the State Board of Accounts, Accounting Manual, the Town
Council may authorize the expenditure of funds from the Riverside Gardens Park
Donation Fund for the purposes specified by the donor(s) without appropriation.
However, accounts payable vouchers must be filed and approved in the regular
legal manner before payments are made from this specific Fund.
   (D)   Separate accounts. If the volume of restricted donations is
sufficient, the Clerk-Treasurer may create separate accounts for all restricted
donations to account for receipt and distribution of each type of restricted
donation. The total activities of the separate accounts (i.e., receipts,
disbursements, and total balances) shall then be reflected on a control
account.
   (E)   Nonreverting fund. Monies deposited in the Riverside Gardens Donation
Fund shall not revert to other funds.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 34.11 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Fund. There is hereby established a Rainy Day Fund to
receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general or
special tax levy on taxable property of the town whenever the purpose of such
tax levy has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance remains.
   (B)   Purposes of Fund. The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may be
used solely for the operation of the town and its various departments, if the
town is without sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including, but
not limited to, salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment,
capital improvements, repairs, and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfers to Fund. On or before December 31 of each year, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall transfer the unused and unencumbered funds remaining from the
general or special tax levy to the Rainy Day Fund. In any fiscal year, such
transfer may not exceed 10% of the town’s total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations from Fund. The Town Council may authorize the
expenditure of funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same
manner as other funds that receive tax monies upon making a finding that the
proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the fund.
   (E)   Nonreverting fund. Monies deposited in the Rainy Day Fund shall not
revert to other funds unless the Rainy Day Fund is terminated by ordinance of
the Town Council. In the event that the Rainy Day Fund is terminated, any
monies in the Rainy Day Fund are to be transferred by the City Controller to
the General Fund.
(Ord. 2004-01, passed 1-6-2004)
§ 34.12 CUMULATIVE FIRE FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the establishment of a Cumulative Firefighting
Fund for the following purposes: purchase, construction, addition, renovation
of buildings used by any fire department or volunteer fire company serving the
town; the purchase of firefighting equipment for the use of any fire department
or volunteer fire company serving the town, including making the required
payments under any lease rental with the option to purchase agreement made to
acquire the equipment; to purchase police or fire radio equipment; to purchase,
construct, renovate, or add to a building, or the purchase of equipment for use
by a provider of emergency medical services under I.C. 16-31-5 to the town.
   (B)   Be it further ordained that this Board will adhere to the provisions
of I.C. 36-8-14. The proposed Fund will not exceed five cents ($0.0333) on each
$100 of assessed valuation (pre-true value tax assessment method). The said tax
rate will be levied beginning with taxes due and payable in the year 2003.
   (C)   Be it further ordained that proofs of publication of the public
hearing held on the July 22, 2002 and a certified copy of Ord. 2002-02 be
submitted to the State Board of Tax Commissioners as provided by law. Said
Cumulative Fund is subject to the approval of the State Board of Tax
Commissioners.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 7-22-2002)
§ 34.13 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-15.5, the Town Council hereby establishes the
Cumulative Capital Development Fund. The proposed fund will not exceed $.05 on
each $100 of assessed valuation. Said tax rate will be levied beginning with
taxes for 2018 payable 2019.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-12-2018)
§ 34.14 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. There is hereby established a fund to be known as
the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund, fund number being 176.
   (B)   Sources of funding. The source of funding includes monies allocated to
the town from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and distributed to the town
in 2021 and 2022.
   (C)   Uses of funding.
      (1)   The town shall only appropriate and use the funds to cover costs
incurred by the town by December 31, 2024 for the following:
         (a)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel and hospitality;
         (b)    To respond to workers performing essential work during the
COVID-19 public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers
of the town that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
         (c)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the town due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the town
prior to the emergency, that being 2019; or
         (d)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure.
      (2)   The Town Council shall adopt a plan which provides details for the
use of funds in compliance with the established guidelines.
   (D)   Justifying expenses. The final rule allows for local non-entitlement
units, or NEU's, to use a standard allowance of $10,000,000 for the replacement
of lost revenue. The final rule states that any service may be included as a
part of this spending. Given that the total money given to the Town of Leo-
Cedarville is less than this amount, the Town of Leo-Cedarville will consider
all expenditures out of Fund 176 to be made under the replacement of lost
revenue. (Per Baker Tilly Presentation 'ARPA Updates on Treasury Department's
Final Rule', page 6).
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 2022-10, passed 5-17-2022)
§ 34.15 COMMUNITY CROSSINGS MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a "Community Crossings Matching Grant
Fund" as Fund #4501 (the "Fund"). Said Fund shall be a non-reverting fund.
   (B)   All funds received from and related to the CCMG shall be placed into
said Fund.
   (C)   The Town Council may authorize appropriations and expenditures of
funds from said Fund consistent with the purposes of the CCMG.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep accurate and complete financial records
of the receipt and expenditure of any and all funds deposited and paid from
said Fund. In addition, the Clerk-Treasurer shall follow any guidance and rules
implemented by the State Board of Accounts regarding this Fund.
   (E)   This section shall become effective upon its passage and execution by
Town Council President and attestation by the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-6-2023)
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 34.25 DESIGNATION OF PURCHASING AGENCY AND PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   Purchasing agencies. The Town Council is hereby designated as the
Purchasing Agency for the town, and shall exercise all of the powers and duties
authorized under I.C. 5-22 et seq. The Town Council may issue warrants for the
payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council. The Town
Council shall appropriate funds in such a manner that expenditures for a year
do not exceed its budget for that year.
(I.C. 6-1.1-18-4 and I.C. 36-5-4-3)
   (B)   Designation of purchasing agent. The Town Council hereby designates
the Town Manager and the Town Clerk-Treasurer as purchasing agents for the
town. All purchases by the Town Manager or Clerk-Treasurer must be in
conformance with the state’s Public Purchasing Law, I.C. 5-22 et seq. and with
this subchapter. The Town Council retains the right to change this designation
or to designate additional purchasing agents as necessary.
   (C)   Town Fiscal Officer. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Fiscal
Officer of the town. The Town Fiscal Officer shall be responsible for
disbursing money on behalf of the town. Unless a state statute provides
otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after an appropriation made by
ordinance of the Town Council from the fund against which the expense is to be
charged.
(I.C. 3-5-2-26; I.C. 36-5-4-2; I.C. 36-5-6-2)
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 34.26 AUTHORITY OF PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   Scope of agent’s authority.
      (1)   The purchasing agents shall be authorized to make purchases on
behalf of the town as directed by the Town Council or as authorized in this
subchapter. For purposes of this subchapter, the term PURCHASE means to buy,
procure, rent, lease, or otherwise acquire. The term includes the following
activities:
         (a)   Preparing description of requirements;
         (b)   Solicitation or selection of sources;
         (c)   Preparation and award of contract;
         (d)   All phases of contract administration; and
         (e)   All functions that pertain to purchasing.
(I.C. 5-22-2-24)
      (2)   Neither the Town Manager nor the Clerk-Treasurer may issue or
execute bonds, notes, or warrants of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-5-7)
      (3)   The purchasing agents shall not expend any money of the town for a
purpose not authorized by law, or in an amount exceeding that authorized by
law, or to a person not lawfully entitled to receive the money. The purchasing
agent shall be bonded against violations of this section.
      (4)   The purchasing agents are authorized to make purchases on behalf of
other boards or officers of the town (e.g., Park Board and Stormwater Utility
Board) but shall comply with the description of requirements and the preference
of sources established by such other board or officer when purchasing goods or
services for that board or officer.
   (B)   Purchasing limits.
      (1)   The purchasing agents shall be authorized to make purchases within
the purchasing limits prescribed below without prior approval of Town Council,
provided that such purchase is for one of the following purposes:
         (a)   Payment of agency filing fees, registration fees, subscriptions
of any account or payment necessary to conduct the ordinary official business
of the town;
         (b)   Purchase of equipment or supplies regularly used in the ordinary
business operations of the town, including its parks and facilities;
         (c)   Purchases to replace office supplies or equipment and
maintenance department tools or supplies that have become lost, broken, or worn
out;
         (d)   Purchases necessary for routine operation, maintenance, or
repair of the equipment or facilities of the town;
         (e)   Public work expenditures for the routine operation, routine
maintenance, or routine repair of a building, structure, road, curb, storm
sewer, or other structure pursuant to I.C. 36-1-12-4.9; or
         (f)    Emergency purchases, as defined in division (G) below.
      (2)   All purchases must be made from an account containing sufficient
funds which have been appropriated by the Town Council for that purpose. The
purchasing agents’ spending authority shall be as follows.
Town General
Town General
Custodian                                Single Purchase Limit
Clerk-Treasurer                          $5,000
Town Manager                             $5,000
Town Manager and Clerk-Treasurer jointly $10,000
Park Board
Clerk-Treasurer                          $750
Town Manager                             $750
Town Manager and Clerk-Treasurer jointly $1,500
Stormwater Utility
Clerk-Treasurer                          $3,500
Town Manager                             $3,500
Town Manager and Clerk-Treasurer jointly $7,000
 
      (3)   All purchases or expenditures that exceed the limitations set forth
above shall require prior approval of the Town Council or associated board.
   (C)   Purchasing policies.
      (1)   Budgeting required. Funds must be budgeted prior to making any
acquisition of materials, supplies, services, or equipment. The purchasing
agent needs to identify the budget account number where the funds are to be
expended.
      (2)   Purchases that are $100 and below. Any purchase that is estimated
to cost less than $100 requires an itemized invoice or receipt detailing the
purchase to be turned into the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   Purchase orders estimated to be $500 up to $2,500. Any such
purchase shall require two quotes to be submitted to, and filed by, the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   Purchase orders estimated to be $2,500 or more, up to $10,000. Any
such purchase shall require three written quotes from different vendors to be
submitted to, and filed by, the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Authorizing purchasing agents. The purchasing agent may authorize an
employee of the town to make a specific point of sale purchase on behalf of the
town, but must provide the employee with prior authorization to make a
purchase. The employee must return the receipt for the purchase to the
authorizing agent immediately following the purchase. In no event shall a town
employee be authorized make a purchase on behalf of the town except as provided
herein.
   (E)   Receipt of goods and services. The purchasing agents or his or her
qualified designee shall be responsible for receiving and inspecting all
purchased goods, and inspecting all purchased services prior to accepting any
goods or services into the town and accepting any receipt, bill, or invoice for
such goods and services. If purchasing a good or service on behalf of a board
or officer of the town, the purchasing agent may require a designated,
qualified representative of such board or officer to inspect the goods or
services prior to accepting them on behalf of the town. If the vendor requires
the purchasing agent or such other person who receives the goods or services to
sign a bill of lading, delivery ticket, or other document confirming delivery
of the goods or performance of the service, the purchasing agent shall obtain
and copy of such documentation as well.
   (F)   Invoice or bill. The purchasing agent is responsible for ensuring that
a fully itemized invoice or bill is issued for each purchase. The purchasing
agent or the authorized person responsible for inspecting and accepting the
goods or services received shall sign the bill or invoice and shall certify
that the goods or services were received and accepted on behalf of the town.
The purchasing agent shall submit to the town’s fiscal agent the signed invoice
or bill along with the town’s copy of any bill of lading, delivery ticket, or
other documents received from the vendor or carrier.
   (G)   Emergency purchases. The purchasing agent may make emergency purchases
that exceed the approved amounts prior to board approval only in the case of
emergency situations requiring immediate repairs to key systems or facilities
that, if not repaired, would be detrimental to the public, town employees, or
to town property.
   (H)   Point of sale purchases.
      (1)   Many purchases by the purchasing agent shall be made through
purchases from a retail establishment where no formal contract or invoice is
generated. Where possible, the purchasing agent should establish accounts with
regular vendors that will allow the purchasing agent or designated town
employee to purchase supplies as needed on account, with an invoice issuing to
the town on a monthly basis, provided that there is no finance charge, or
interest charged if payments are made within 30 days of the date of invoice.
      (2)   Pursuant to the town’s petty cash ordinance, the purchasing agent
may utilize a duly created petty cash fund, over which the purchasing agent or
otherwise authorized person is a custodian for purposes of paying for point of
sale purchases. Such fund shall be replenished pursuant to the terms of the
petty cash ordinance.
      (3)   The purchasing agent may use a town credit card for point of sale
purchases consistent with the terms of the credit card ordinance. However, the
purchasing agent must still comply with the purchasing guidelines set forth
above before using such credit cards.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-14-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Credit card, see §§
34.50 through
34.57
   Petty cash, see §
34.07
§ 34.27 PURCHASE OF UNITED STATES PRODUCTS.
   The purchasing agents shall purchase only supplies manufactured in the
United States unless it is determined that:
   (A)   The needed supply is not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
   (B)   The price of the supply manufactured in the United States exceeds by
an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supply manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of the supply manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 34.28 BIDDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purchases up to $10,000. The purchasing agents may purchase supplies
with an estimated cost of up to $10,000 and may pay for public works
expenditures for the routine operation, routine maintenance, or routine repair
of a building, structure, facility, or equipment with an estimated price of not
more than $10,000 according to the purchasing policies as defined in §
34.26(C).
   (B)   Purchases between $10,001 and $50,000. If the purchasing agents expect
a purchase to be greater than $10,000 but less than $50,000, the purchasing
agents shall come to the Town Council at a regularly scheduled meeting for
approval. The purchasing agents shall provide information to the Council
regarding specifications for the purchase and regarding comparative costs/
prices and qualifications of known vendors/suppliers. However, the Council
shall retain the right to modify the specifications for the purchase, to
specify a specific vendor/supplier or to require the purchasing agent to
formally solicit quotes or go through a formal bidding process at its
discretion.
   (C)   Purchases between $50,000 and $150,000.
      (1)   Purchases to be at least $50,000 but not more than $150,000 should
be supported by quotes from at least three vendors/persons known to deal in the
types of supplies to be purchased. At least one quote must come from vendors/
persons who participate in state, federal, or municipal pricing programs if
such vendors/persons exist.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall mail an invitation to quote to at least
three vendors/persons of his or her choice at least seven days before the fixed
time for receiving the quotes. The purchasing agent shall submit all quotes to
Town Council for consideration, selection, approval, or rejection. The Town
Council shall award the contract to the lowest responsible and responsive offer
or for each line or class of supplies required. The Town Council may reject all
quotes.
      (3)   The purchasing agent will notify vendors/persons of the Town
Council’s decision. If the purchasing agent does not receive a quote from a
responsible and responsive vendor/person, he or she may use special purchasing
methods set forth in I.C. 5-22-10-1 et seq. to purchase the necessary supplies
as long as the purchase is approved by Town Council.
   (D)   Purchases over $150,000. If the purchasing agent expects a purchase to
be over $150,000, he or she shall use the competitive bidding procedures set
forth in I.C. 5-22-7 et seq.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 34.29 PURCHASES OF SERVICES.
   The purchasing agents may purchase services in whatever manner the
purchasing agents deems reasonable. The purchasing agents may purchase services
on the open market without receiving quotes or bids. However, preference will
be given to service providers who participate in state, federal, or municipal
pricing programs if such service provider exists.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 34.30 SPECIAL PURCHASES.
   (A)   The purchasing agents may make “special purchases” without soliciting
bids or proposals. A special purchase may be made in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Where there exists an emergency condition (as defined above);
      (2)   Where there exists a unique opportunity to obtain supplies or
services at substantial savings;
      (3)   At an approved auction;
      (4)   When compatibility of equipment or parts is an important factor;
      (5)   When there is a single source supplier of the items needed; or
      (6)   As otherwise allowed by I.C. 5-22-10.
   (B)   Special purchases may be made without soliciting bids or proposals,
provided that it is made with such competition as is practical under the
circumstances. The purchasing agents shall submit a written recommendation to
the Town Council describing the basis for the award of the contract. The Town
Council may choose to accept the recommendation and award the contract, or may
reject the recommendation. The purchasing agents shall comply fully with I.C.
5-22-10 when making a special purchase, and shall maintain the contract records
for a special purchase in a separate file which shall include a written
determination of the basis for the special purchase and the selection of a
particular contractor. Such file shall be maintained for a minimum of five
years and shall include the name of each contractor, the amount and type of
each contract, and a description of the supplies purchased under each contract.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 34.31 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Insurance needs will vary from contract to contract depending on the
size and nature of the contract. Generally speaking, for all contracts other
than point of sale transactions, the purchasing agent shall verify that the
contractor carries general liability and property damage insurance, by
obtaining a copy of the certificate of insurance establishing proof of such
insurance before entering into the contract or allowing the contractor to
provide the goods or services to the town. Also, where possible, the purchasing
agent should confirm that manufactures of materials purchased by the town
should carry product liability insurance. Contractors performing public works
jobs should, in addition to any bonding requirements and general liability
insurance, carry completed operation coverage. Any contractor providing
professional services should carry professional liability insurance. The
purchasing agent should confer with the Town Attorney regarding the appropriate
type of insurance. The purchasing agent should obtain approval of the Town
Council before waiving the proof of insurance requirements set forth here.
   (B)   For large contracts or contracts involving specific hazard, where
possible, the purchasing agent should try to negotiate as part of the contract
that the contractor add the town as an additional insured on the contractor’s
insurance policy, and that the contractor indemnify and hold the town harmless
for its conduct. Such language should be included in the face of the written
contracts, and approved by the Town Attorney. For ongoing contracts, the
contract shall provide that the purchasing agent shall be required to maintain
such insurance throughout the contract period.
   (C)   The appropriate amount of such coverage will vary depending on the
nature and size of the contract. If reasonable, the purchasing agent should
require the contractor to carry insurance up to $700,000 for injury or death of
one person and $5,000,000 aggregate for injury or death to all persons and
$1,000,000 for any property damage. The purchasing agents should seek Town
Council approval for a modification of this amount or a waiver of the
certificate of insurance before a purchasing agent may enter into a contract
for any amount exceeding $1,000 in value. The purchasing agent shall require
the contractor to provide a certificate of compliance from the state’s Workers
Compensation Board showing that the contractor has complied with I.C. 22-3-2-5,
I.C. 22-3-5-1, and I.C. 22-3-5-2. All subcontractors on the contract must
likewise provide proof of Workers Compensation Insurance coverage for all
workers. A contractor may not avoid this requirement by designating its workers
as independent contractors unless the independent contractors can provide proof
of valid workers compensation insurance.
(I.C. 22-3-2-14(b)) (Ord. 2017-12, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 34.32 ALTERNATE PURCHASING AGENTS.
   (A)   Designation of alternate purchasing agents. The Town Council hereby
designates the Town Council President as the alternate purchasing agent for the
Town Manager during any time in which the Town Manager is incapacitated or
otherwise unable to perform the functions of purchasing agent for the town. In
the event that both the Town Manager and the Town Council President are
incapacitated or otherwise unable to perform the functions of purchasing agent,
then the Vice President of the Town Council shall serve as the alternate
purchasing agent for the town.
   (B)   Incapacity defined. For purposes of this section, the phrase
INCAPACITATED OR OTHERWISE UNABLE TO PERFORM THE FUNCTIONS OF PURCHASING AGENT
shall mean any period of disability, any period of vacation, any period of
medical leave or other leave of absence from employment with the town or office
with the town, or being out of town and unable to perform the necessary
functions of purchasing agent for the town due to such absence.
   (C)   Intent of section. It is the intent of the Town Council that the Town
Manager serves as the purchasing agent for the town when possible. When the
Town Manager is out of the office for a few days, purchases, contracts and
other functions of the purchasing agent should be delayed when possible until
the Town Manager is available to perform those functions. This section is
intended to convey purchasing powers to the Town Council President or
alternatively the Town Council Vice President, when the Town Manager is
unavailable for a prolonged period of time (e.g., a week or more) or for
periods when the Town Manager is unavailable and an emergency arises or there
is an urgent need for a purchase or contract.
   (D)   Compliance with other laws. Any person acting as an alternative
purchasing agent under this section shall be subject to and fully comply with
the town’s purchasing ordinance as well as the state’s Public Purchasing Law,
I.C. 5-22 et seq.
   (E)   Identity of town officers. The Town Council shall elect its President
and Vice President at the first meeting of the Town Council each year. Such
designations are subject to change at any time as recorded in the minutes of
the Town Council and any relevant resolution.
   (F)   Additional designations. The Town Council retains the right to change
this designation or to designate additional purchasing agents as necessary.
(Res. 2012-05R, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 34.33 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS; MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Internal Control Policy attached to Ord.
2016-05 as Exhibit “A” by reference and incorporates as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein
prior to June 30, 2016.
   (C)   The town of hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $500 for purposes
of the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 34.34 RETURNED CHECK FEE.
   (A)   If a person or entity tenders a check to the town for payment of any
cost, fee, charge, or fine and such check shall subsequently be dishonored by
the drawee bank or financial institution, then upon protest by the town, the
drawer of the check and/or the person who tendered the check shall be
responsible for paying to the town the face amount of the check along with a
service fee of $15 as well as any related charges or fees charged to the town
by its bank or financial institution due to the dishonor of the check.
   (B)   For purposed of this section, the phrase PROTEST BY THE TOWN shall
mean the giving of notice (whether verbal or written) to the drawer or person
tendering the check notice of its dishonor and a demand for payment.
   (C)   If the person who drew the check or the person who tendered the check
shall make payment to the town of the face amount of the check prior to protest
being made by the town and if the town incurred no charges or fees due to the
dishonor of the check, then the service fee set forth in division (A) above
shall not be charged.
   (D)   If payment of the face amount of the check along with the service fee
and charges set forth in division (A) above are not paid to the town within 30
days of protest by the town, then the town may sue to collect the face amount
of the check along with any amount allowed by I.C. 26-2-7-6 or any other law
pertaining to dishonored checks as well interest, legal costs, and attorney
fees.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall excuse or replace any late fee which may
otherwise be due from a resident or customer due to a late payment caused by a
dishonored check. Any late fee charged pursuant to any statute or ordinance
shall be charged in addition to the service fees and charges assessed hereunder
due to the dishonored check.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 34.35 RECORDING FIXED ASSETS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the term FIXED ASSET shall mean tangible
property acquired by the town which will not be consumed or converted into cash
within the current accounting period in which the asset is obtained by the
town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a log of all fixed assets with a
purchase or replacement value of $5,000 or more at the time of acquisition.
Such log shall include the acquisition value of the asset, the description of
the asset, serial number (if applicable) of the asset, and the location or
custodian of the asset.
   (C)   A complete inventory of all logged assets shall be taken every year to
verify account balances and ensure control of the town’s fixed assets. All
employees of the town shall cooperate with and assist the Clerk-Treasurer and
the Town Manager in completing the inventory.
   (D)   Any fixed assets acquired prior to the date of this section of less
than $5,000 that have not yet been logged on the town’s fixed asset log need
not be logged following the date of the adoption of this section.
(Ord. 2012-11, passed 11-27-2012)
§ 34.36 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Clerk-Treasurer by make certain payments via ACH.
Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments and payment for any other bill.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT) including online transfers. The Town
Council of the Town of Leo-Cedarville authorizes the use of online transfers in
the process of paying claims/invoices that are in the best interests of the
Town of Leo-Cedarville.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2022-16, passed 11-1-2022)
CREDIT CARD
§ 34.50 AUTHORIZATION TO MAINTAIN CREDIT CARD.
   The Town Manager is hereby authorized to secure and maintain one or more
credit cards in the name of the town for use by properly authorized town
representatives in carrying out the business of the town and to pay a
reasonable annual fee if the Town Manager determines it to be in the town’s
best interests. The Town Manager shall sign all credit applications and credit
agreements for all credit cards. All credit cards shall be issued in the name
of the town or in the name of an authorized purchasing agent of the town so
long as the name of the town is also included on the face of the card.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 34.51 CREDIT LIMIT.
   The aggregate credit limit of all credit cards secured in the name of the
town may not exceed $10,000. Individual purchases with a town credit card are
limited to the purchase limit amount established by the town’s purchasing
ordinance.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 34.52 AUTHORIZED USERS.
   (A)   Purchases may be made with the credit card by any town purchasing
agent within the limits of the purchasing agent’s borrowing limits, or by other
town employees or officers as authorized in advance by a resolution of the Town
Council. Charges shall only be made on the credit card(s) to purchase items or
services which are included and authorized in the budget of the town.
   (B)   All credit cards shall be maintained by the Town Manager. However,
cards issued in the name of a designated purchasing agent may be maintained by
the purchasing agent. Town credit cards may only be used by the town’s
designated purchasing agents, and only in a manner consistent with the town’s
purchasing ordinance.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 34.53 RECEIPT OF PURCHASE.
   Within 72 hours of the purchase, or if the purchasing agent is out of town
when the card is used within 72 hours of the purchasing agent’s return to town,
a purchasing agent using a credit card shall provide the Town Clerk-Treasurer
with a copy of the credit card receipt with written particulars of the purpose
of the purchase, including an itemized list of all charges incurred and whether
those are paid from different budgeted line items.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 34.54 USE LIMITATIONS.
   No credit card issued to the town shall be used for a private or other non-
town purchase. Inappropriate use of any town credit card shall be reported to
the Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Council, and appropriate discipline shall be
taken by the Town Council against any card user who improperly uses a town
credit card. Improperly documented charges or those charges shown to be
unnecessary in carrying out the town’s business and any finance charges
resulting from the use of the card shall be the responsibility of the person
making the improper charge and subject to collection as any other town claim.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 34.55 PURCHASE ORDER FORM.
   The Clerk-Treasurer may require the employee or responsible town officer to
complete a purchase order form if necessary to encumber the appropriate fund
and track appropriations and to monitor the town’s accounting system.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 34.56 INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED.
   Payment should not be made on the basis of a statement or a credit card slip
only. The employee returning the card must provide the same information
required for other purchases under the town’s purchasing ordinance. Supporting
documents such as paid bills and receipts must be provided to the Clerk-
Treasurer when available.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 34.57 PAYMENT OF BILL.
   If a charge was properly authorized and documented pursuant to the
procedures set forth in the purchasing ordinance, the Clerk-Treasurer may pay
the charges, including interest and the annual fee for the card(s) without
prior approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 3-13-2012)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 34.65 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this policy is to establish an investment committee, provide
investment objectives and guidelines for the management of public funds, to
safeguard funds on behalf of the Town of Leo-Cedarville, Indiana (the "town"),
to assure the availability of funds when needed, and, at all times, invest
according to and consistent with state law, I.C. 5-13-9 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 34.66 SCOPE.
   This policy applies to the investment of all funds, unless the investment of
certain defined funds are governed by a separate statute or agreement. The town
may consolidate all cash and reserve balances, except for cash in certain
restricted and special funds, to maximize investment earnings and to increase
efficiencies with regard to investment pricing, safekeeping and administration.
Investment income will be allocated to the various funds based on their
respective participation and in accordance with generally accepted-accounting
principles.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 34.67 GENERAL OBJECTIVES.
   The primary objectives of investment activities shall be safety, liquidity,
and return:
   (A)   Safety. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall investment portfolio. The
objective will be to mitigate credit risk and interest rate risk.
      (1)   Credit risk. The town will minimize credit risk, which is the risk
of loss of all or part of the investment portfolio due to the failure of the
security issuer or backer, by limiting investments to the types of securities
as listed in §
34.68 and by diversifying the investment portfolio so that the impact of
potential losses from any one type of security or from any one individual
issuer will be minimized.
      (2)   Interest rate risk. The town will minimize interest rate risk,
which is the risk that the market value of securities in the investment
portfolio will fall due to changes in market interest rates, by structuring the
investment portfolio so that security maturities match cash requirements for
ongoing operations, thereby avoiding the need to sell securities on the open
market prior to maturity.
   (B)   Liquidity. The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid
to meet all operating requirements that may be reasonably anticipated. This is
accomplished by structuring the investment portfolio so that securities mature
concurrent with cash needs to meet anticipated demands.
   (C)   Return. Return on investment is of secondary importance compared to
the safety and liquidity objectives described above. The core investments are
limited to relatively low risk securities in anticipation of earning a fair
return relative to the risk being assumed.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 34.68 STANDARDS OF CARE.
   (A)   Prudence. The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials
shall be the "uniform prudent investor act" standard and shall be applied in
the context of managing an overall investment portfolio. The Investment Officer
(defined below) and its designees acting in accordance with written procedures
and this policy and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security's credit risk or market price
changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion
and the liquidity and the sale of securities are carried out in accordance with
the terms of this policy.
   (B)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. The Investment Committee (defined
below), the Investment Officer and its designees involved in the implementation
of the Investment Plan (defined below) shall refrain from personal business
activity that could conflict with the proper execution and management of the
investment portfolio, or that could impair their ability to make impartial
decisions. The Investment Committee, the Investment Officer and its designees
shall disclose any material interests in financial institutions with which they
conduct business, in accordance with applicable laws and this policy. The
Investment Committee, the Investment Officer and its designees shall further
disclose any personal financial/investment positions that could be related to
the performance of the investment portfolio. The Investment Committee, the
Investment Officer and its designees shall refrain from undertaking personal
investment transactions with the same individuals or businesses with whom
business is conducted on behalf of the town.
   (C)   Delegation of authority.
      (1)   Authority to manage the investment portfolio is granted to the
Investment Committee which shall consist of a six member team comprised of the
Clerk-Treasurer and the five members of Town Council.
      (2)   The town shall defend and hold harmless the Investment Committee,
the Investment Officer and its designees from and against any and all claims,
losses, costs or damages (including, without limitation, attorney's fees) they
may incur relating to or arising out such person's actions pursuant to this
Section, except to the extent caused by such person's gross negligence or
willful misconduct.
   (D)   Investment committee duties. The Investment Committee shall meet
quarterly and additionally as needed to discuss performance of investments,
ongoing cash needs, determine the portfolio amount and to create, review and
update an Investment Plan. The investment portfolio amount will be an amount
that the Investment Committee deems acceptable to invest pursuant to the
Investment Plan which shall be approved by the Investment Committee. The
Investment Plan shall detail the percentage of the investment portfolio to be
invested in different types of securities and the terms for each investment.
The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Investment Officer and will be responsible for
the execution of the Investment Plan and shall establish a system of controls
to regulate the activities of any persons designated by the Investment Officer
to carry out the Investment Plan. No person may engage in an investment
transaction that is not provided for in the Investment Plan.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 34.69 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, DEPOSITORIES, AND BROKER/DEALERS.
   A list will be maintained of local financial institutions that are approved
depositories for the receipt of public funds according to the State Board for
Depositories. The town may pass a resolution pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-
5 expanding the list of approved financial institutions to include all Indiana
depositories approved for the receipt of public funds according to the Indiana
State Board for Depositories. Approved depositories must meet the following
requirements:
   (A)   Primary dealers or regional dealers that qualify under Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15C3-l (uniform net capital rule);
   (B)   Capital of no less than $10,000,000;
   (C)   Registered as a dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
   (D)   A member of the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASO); and
   (E)   Proof of state registration.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 34.70 SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   The Investment Committee will only invest the town's funds in investments
permitted by the State of Indiana I.C. 5-13-9, which include:
   (A)   Securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Treasury or fully guaranteed by the United States and issued by any of the
following:
      (1)   The United States Treasury.
      (2)   A federal agency.
      (3)   A federal instrumentality.
      (4)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
   (B)   Securities fully guaranteed and issued by any of the following:
      (1)   A federal agency.
      (2)   A federal instrumentality.
      (3)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
   (C)   Municipal securities issued by an Indiana local governmental entity, a
quasi-governmental entity related to the state, or a unit of government,
municipal corporation, or special taxing district in Indiana, if the issuer has
not defaulted on any of the issuer's obligations within the 20 years preceding
the date of the purchase in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9.2.
   (D)   Money market mutual funds rated AAAm, or its equivalent, by Standard
and Poor's Corporation or Aaa, or its equivalent, by Moody's Investors Service,
Inc. in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-2.5.
   (E)   Repurchase agreements in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-3.
   (F)   Transaction accounts, certificates of deposit and deposit accounts
issued or offered by a designated depository of the town's political
subdivision. The investing officer making a deposit in a certificate of deposit
shall obtain quotes from each designated depositmy in accordance with I.C. 5-
13-9-4.
   (G)   Certificates of deposit authorized by a resolution of the town in
accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5 and 5-13-9-5.3.
   (H)   Local government investment pools in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-11.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 34.71 INVESTMENT DIVERSIFICATION AND CONSTRAINTS.
   (A)   Diversification.
      (1)   To eliminate risk of loss resulting from the overconcentration of
assets in a specific maturity, issuer, or class of securities, all cash and
cash equivalent assets in all town funds shall be diversified by maturity,
issuer, and security type.
      (2)   The following diversification limitations shall be imposed on the
investment portfolio:
         (a)   Maturity: No more than 25% of the investment portfolio may be
invested beyond 24 months.
         (b)   Default risk: No more than 5% of the overall investment
portfolio may be invested in the securities of a single issuer of §
34.70(C).
         (c)   Liquidity risk: Based on liquidity needs, at least 20% of the
overall portfolio shall be invested in overnight instruments or in marketable
securities which can be converted to cash within one day.
   (B)   Maximum maturities.
      (1)   The town's investments must have a stated final maturity of not
more than two years pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.6. Because of inherent
difficulties in accurately forecasting cash flow requirements, a portion of the
investment portfolio should be continuously invested in readily available funds
such as local government investment pools, money market funds, or overnight
repurchase agreements to ensure that appropriate liquidity is maintained to
meet ongoing obligations.
      (2)   The town may adopt an ordinance, pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.7,
appointing and authorizing the Investment Officer to make investments having a
stated final maturity that is more than two years but not more than five years
after the date of purchase. The total investments of the town with maturities
of two to five years outstanding at the time of purchase may not exceed 25% of
its total portfolio of public funds invested, including balances in transaction
accounts. Such ordinance expires on the date on which this policy expires,
which may not exceed four years.
   (C)   Competitive bids. The Investment Officer or its designee shall obtain
competitive bids for investment with financial institutions in accordance with
I.C. 5-13-9-4. The Investment Officer or its designee shall obtain bids from at
least two brokers or financial institutions on all purchases of investment
instruments on the secondary market. Overnight sweep investment instruments
shall not be subject to this section.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 34.72 REPORTING.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare an investment portfolio report at least
quarterly, including a management summary that provides an analysis of the
status of the current investment portfolio and the individual transactions
executed over the last quarter. The report will include the following:
   (A)   Listing of individual securities held at the end of the reporting
period including type, acquisition cost, book cost, and market value.
   (B)   Percentage of the total portfolio represented by each type of
investment.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-5-2023)
§ 34.73 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Adoption and expiration. This policy shall be adopted by the town at a
public meeting and shall expire four years from the date of adoption in
accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7.
   (B)   Exemption. Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy.
   (C)   Amendments. This policy shall be reviewed periodically. Any changes
must be approved by the Investment Officer and the Town Council.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 12-5-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   STORMWATER UTILITY
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Accumulation of garbage and rubbish prohibited
   
50.03   Residential solid waste collection
   
50.04   Duties of the contractor
   
50.05   Other services
   
50.06   Collection practices
   
50.07   Financing
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a difference meaning.
   COVERED RESIDENCES. All residential units within the town, except those
which are a part of a multi-family dwelling unit at which the residents combine
garbage and rubbish for collection in a dumpster or other similar receptacle
intended to hold solid residential waste generated by more than one family.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food waste, including every waste accumulation of animal,
fruit, and vegetable matter, used or intended for food, or that attends the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit, or
vegetables.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. The garbage and rubbish produced by covered
residences.
   RUBBISH. Such matter as ashes, cans, metal ware, broken glass, crockery,
dirt sweepings, boxes, lumber, wood, or litter of any kind, except trees, large
limbs, or debris from demolition or construction of buildings. RUBBISH shall
not include leaves.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017)
§ 50.02 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH PROHIBITED.
   No owner, occupant, or lessee of any covered residential unit shall allow
the accumulation and/or storage of garbage or rubbish on the real estate
outside their dwelling unit unless the garbage and rubbish is stored in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. All residential garbage of
covered units shall be disposed of in the manner provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   The town may contract with a third party (hereinafter the “contractor”) for
the collection of residential solid waste. The contractor shall have the
exclusive right to collect residential solid waste from covered residences. No
resident (including residents that have opted out of this service as provided
in section of this chapter) may contract with any person or entity for the
disposal of residential solid waste other than the contractor.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 DUTIES OF THE CONTRACTOR.
   (A)   The contractor shall collect the residential solid waste within the
town one day per week on a day to be determined by mutual agreement between the
town and contractor.
   (B)   The contractor will complete the collection on the agreed upon day
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (C)   (1)   The contractor will provide to each occupant of a covered
residential unit, one 90-gallon wheeled cart with a hinged lid for the storage
of residential solid waste (hereinafter “container”).
      (2)   If the owner or occupant of a covered residential unit wishes to
use one or more additional containers, the owner or occupant shall contact the
contractor directly for such additional containers, and the contractor shall
provide the covered residential unit with the requested additional container
(s).
      (3)   Each additional container provided at the request of an owner or
occupant of a covered residential unit pursuant to this division shall be
referred to herein as an “extra container”.
   (D)   The contractor shall be required to collect up to but not exceeding 90
gallons of residential solid waste from each covered residential unit on a
weekly basis, plus any solid waste contained in an extra container obtained
pursuant to division (C) above.
   (E)   On two days during the year, to be determined by the mutual agreement
of the town and contractor, the contractor will pick up unlimited amounts of
residential solid waste from covered residential units on its normal collection
days.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017)
§ 50.05 OTHER SERVICES.
   (A)   Collection of excess residential solid waste. The contractor shall
make available to the owners and/or occupants of covered residential units
specially marked stickers which may be used to dispose of residential solid
waste beyond that which fits in the container provided by the contractor. The
specially marked stickers shall be distributed as follows. The town or other
commercial vendors authorized by the contractor shall purchase the stickers
from the contractor for the price of $1 per sticker, and the town or the other
vendor sell the stickers to the public for a reasonable fee during the normal
business hours of the town or vendor. Owners and/or occupants of covered
residential units may place specially marked sticker on bags of solid
residential waste or on large, individual waste items, which can weigh no more
than 60 pounds, and place such additional bags or objects out for collection
with the container under the conditions set for in this chapter.
   (B)   Recycling and other kinds of refuse. The contractor has the right to
enter into contacts with the residents of the town for the collection of
recyclable materials and for all types of refuse material, including furniture,
appliances, and large quantities of sod, rocks, concrete, rubble, and refuse
from the remodeling, construction, and demolition of buildings, excavations,
and other materials, except for poisonous and toxic materials and large
quantities of liquid requiring tank truck disposal and equipment. Additionally,
town residents may, free of charge, take recyclable items to the town’s
designated recycling spot located on Schwartz Road directly across from the
Riverside Garden Park. Only recyclable items that fit within the recycling bin
(s) located at the pick-up spot may be left. Recyclable material maybe brought
to the location from 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017)
§ 50.06 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Suitable containers. Residential solid waste shall not be stored
outside a dwelling unit except in a container provided by the contractor, or
along-side such a container and affixed with a specially marked sticker as set
forth herein.
   (B)   Location of containers in collection days. Residential solid waste to
be picked up by the contractor shall be placed in a container. The container
shall be placed adjacent to the curb immediately adjacent to the covered
residence prior to 6:00 a.m. on a date scheduled for collection but not earlier
than 7:00 p.m. on the date preceding the scheduled collection. Containers
placed on the curb for collection shall not impede pedestrian or vehicular
traffic along sidewalks, alleyways, streets, and/or other public rights-of-way.
Containers shall be removed from the curb by 9:00 p.m. on the date of
collection.
   (C)   Storage of containers on non-collection days. With the exception of
the time period beginning at 7:00 p.m. on the day prior to a scheduled
collection through 9:00 p.m. on the day of scheduled collection, containers
shall be stored indoors, or outdoors at a location sheltered from street view,
if possible, given lot size and configuration.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017)
§ 50.07 FINANCING.
   (A)   User fees. Except as provided in division (B) below, a monthly user
fee as set forth on schedule “A” attached to Ord. 2017-01, shall be charged to
each covered residential unit each month for the solid waste collection
services provided pursuant to this chapter. The contractor may charge an
additional fee for each extra container issued pursuant to §
50.04(C), but such charges shall be made directly to the owner or occupant. The
owner and occupant of each covered residential unit shall be jointly and
severally liable for the user fee charged by the town. This fee shall be
invoiced and collected by the town on a monthly basis. At its option, the town
may provide monthly coupons to the covered residential units once a year. The
invoice or coupons shall be directed to the owner of each covered residential
unit.
   (B)   Change in the person to receive invoice. If a person who has
previously been invoiced for the services provided hereunder to a covered
residential unit moves from or sells the unit and should therefore no longer be
invoiced, that person shall notify the town in writing. Should the name and/or
address of the person to be invoiced change because of a change of ownership of
the covered residential unit or for any other reason, the owner of the covered
residential unit shall notify the town in writing.
   (C)   Delinquent invoices. In the event that an invoice from the town to the
owner or occupant of a covered residential unit remains unpaid after a period
of 15 days from the due date of the invoice, the town may do any or all of the
following.
      (1)   If a garbage collection charge is not paid within the 15-day grace
period, the customer will be sent an overdue notice and a one-time 10%
administrative charge shall be added onto the amount of the bill.
      (2)   Should it become necessary for the town to attach a lien on a
property pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23 in order to collect unpaid garbage collection
fees, the town shall assess a $15 penalty onto the amount of the bill, which
shall compensate the town for the administrative costs of preparing and filing
the lien. Such penalty will be included on the lien in addition to the
recording costs charged to the town by the County Recorder’s office for
recording and releasing the lien and any fees or charges assessed by the County
Auditor for placing the lien on the tax records for the property.
      (3)   All unpaid fees imposed by this chapter are subject to the same
delinquency fees, penalties, and interest authorized for delinquent (storm)
sewer bills and may be collected by any lawful means, including the filing of
liens as authorized by I.C. 36-9-23. If a lien is also being filed for an
unpaid stormwater user fee, the amount of the stormwater user fee shall be
added into the amount of the unpaid garbage collection charge on the lien, and
only one $15 penalty shall be assessed.
      (4)   At its option, the town may bring a civil action, pursuant to I.C.
36-9-30-21, to recover the unpaid garbage collection fee, plus penalties,
interest, and the cost of collection, including reasonable attorney fees, in a
civil action brought in the name of the town.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-2017)
CHAPTER 51: STORMWATER UTILITY
Section
   
51.01   Establishing the Department of Stormwater Management
   
51.02   Stormwater rates
   
51.03   Unlawful discharges into the sanitary sewer system
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 ESTABLISHING THE DEPARTMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Adoption of state law. I.C. 8-1.5-5 is hereby adopted by the Town
Council so as to make that chapter and all amendments thereto effective and
operative as to the town.
   (B)   Special taxing district created; boundaries.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-5, there is hereby created a special
taxing district which shall include all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the town.
      (2)   All area in the special taxing district and all area added to the
district shall be considered to have received a special benefit from the
stormwater collection and disposal facilities of the district equal to or
greater than the special taxes imposed on the area in order to pay all or part
of the costs for such facilities.
   (C)   Establishment of Department of Stormwater Management. A Department of
Stormwater Management is hereby established for the town for the purposes of
providing for the collection and disposal of stormwater of the special taxing
district created above in a manner that protects the public health and welfare,
and for the purpose of levying special benefit taxes for purposes of stormwater
collection and disposal.
   (D)   Board of Directors.
      (1)   The Department of Stormwater Management shall be controlled by a
Board of Directors consisting of three Directors.
      (2)   The terms of the Directors shall be staggered so that one of the
Directors first appointed shall serve an initial term of one year, one of the
Directors shall serve an initial term of two years, and one of the Directors
shall serve an initial term of three years. Thereafter all Directors shall
serve a term of three years. All directors shall be appointed by the President
of the Town Council.
      (3)   The President of the Town Council may remove a Director at any time
when, in the judgment of the President of the Town Council, it is in the best
interest of the Department.
      (4)   The Board of Directors shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the
collection and disposal of stormwater within the special taxing district.
      (5)   The Board of Directors shall have all of the powers provided under
I.C. 8-1.5-5-6, which include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Hold hearing following public notice;
         (b)   Make findings and determinations;
         (c)   Install, maintain, and operate a stormwater collection and
disposal system;
         (d)   Make all necessary or desirable improvements of the grounds and
premises under its control; and
         (e)   Issue and sell bonds of the district in the name of the town for
the acquisition, construction, alteration, addition, or extension of the
stormwater collection and disposal system or for the refunding of any bonds
issued by the Board.
   (E)   Financing of facilities. The acquisition, construction, installation,
operation, and maintenance of facilities and land for stormwater systems may be
financed through:
      (1)   Proceeds of special taxing district bonds of the stormwater
district;
      (2)   The assumption of liability incurred to construct the stormwater
system being acquired;
      (3)   Service rates;
      (4)   Revenue bonds; or
      (5)   Other available funds.
   (F)   User fees. The Board may assess and collect user fees, after approval
by the Town Council, from all property of the stormwater district for the
operation and maintenance of the stormwater system. The collection of the fees
authorized by this section may be effectuated through a periodic billing system
or through a charge appearing on the semi-annual property tax assessment of the
affected property owner.
   (G)   Fixing and setting aside revenues.
      (1)   The Board may fix and set aside revenue as follows:
         (a)   As necessary for the reasonable and proper operation and
maintenance of the department;
         (b)   For a proper and adequate depreciation account; and
         (c)   To be applied to the payment of the principal and interest of
authorized bonds.
      (2)   If a surplus is accumulated in the operating and maintenance
account, the Board may transfer any excess funds to:
         (a)   The depreciation account to be used for improvement, extensions,
or additions to the stormwater system; or
         (b)   To a bond and interest redemption account.
      (3)   In all other matters, the Board shall comply with the provisions of
I.C. 8-1.55 when managing the revenue of the department.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 8-3-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Special taxing district, I.C. 8-1.5-5-5
§ 51.02 STORMWATER RATES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, an EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL
UNIT (ERU) is defined as the amount of impervious area included upon an average
residential property. Based on a study performed by the town’s consulting
engineer it has been determined that an EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT equals
approximately 6,685 square feet of impervious area. An IMPERVIOUS AREA refers
to those surface areas of residential and nonresidential properties, which
water will not penetrate and from which stormwater runoff will be produced.
   (B)   Residential property. All property deemed residential will be charged
based upon one ERU in accordance with the following: monthly fee per ERU $6.30.
   (C)   Nonresidential users. The monthly stormwater fee is to be paid by each
nonresidential user and shall be calculated based upon the total impervious
area, divided by the average residential impervious area of 6,685 square feet,
multiplied by the monthly fee per ERU established under division (B) above.
   (D)   Cemeteries. No fee shall be charged to cemeteries.
   (E)   Credit for reducing stormwater runoff. Nonresidential property owners
that have made improvements to their lot or parcel that has resulted in a
significant reduction in the amount of stormwater runoff may apply to the
Stormwater Utility Board for a credit to be applied to their monthly bill. The
credit shall only be allowed at the discretion of the Board pursuant to a
standard that shall be established by a resolution by the Board and in no event
shall the credit exceed 25%.
   (F)   Minimum and maximum rates. In no event shall a customer pay a monthly
rate that is less than the rate per one ERU. In no event shall a customer pay a
monthly rate that is more than $265 per month.
   (G)   Payment of bills; liens for unpaid bills.
      (1)   The collection of the fees authorized by this section may be
effectuated through a periodic billing system or through a charge appearing on
the semi-annual property tax statement of the affected property owner at the
discretion of the Board for all properties subject to the fee.
      (2)   Stormwater user fee bills shall be payable within 15 days from the
date of the bill and shall be paid at the Town Hall or mailed thereto. If a
user fee is not paid within the 15-day grace period, the customer will be sent
an overdue notice and a one-time 10% administrative charge shall be added onto
the amount of the bill.
      (3)   Should it become necessary for the town to attach a lien on a
property pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-9 in order to collect an unpaid stormwater
bill, the town shall assess a $15 penalty onto the amount of the bill, which
shall compensate the town for the administrative costs of preparing and filing
the lien. Such penalty will be included on the lien in addition to the
recording costs charged to the town by the County Recorder’s office for
recording and releasing the lien and any fees or charges assessed by the County
Auditor for placing the lien on the tax records for the property. If the town
contemporaneously places a lien against the same property for an unpaid garbage
collection charge, pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23, only one $15 penalty shall be
added to the total bill for the combined lien.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 12-20-2005; Ord. 2007-06, passed 11-20-2007; Ord. 2010-
06, passed 1-18-2011; Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-23-2017; Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 51.03 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES INTO THE SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be illegal for any sump pumps, down spouts, or foundation
drains, or other surface water drainage system (hereinafter drains) to outlet
directly onto any paved street, road, sidewalk, alley, or walkway (hereinafter
“improved right-of-way”) within the town, or to be connected with the sanitary
sewer system. Such drains shall either:
      (1)   Be connected to an available subsurface drainage system (but not
the street sub-base drain) as approved by the Town Stormwater Drainage Board;
or
      (2)   If a subsurface drainage system is not available, such drain shall
be set back a sufficient distance so that the discharge of water from the drain
shall not cause a hazardous condition on the improved right-of-way.
   (B)   The term HAZARDOUS CONDITION, as used in this section, shall mean any
condition that creates a substantial increased risk of personal injury or
property damage or which substantially threatens the physical integrity of the
improved right-of-way or causes premature erosion or deterioration of the
improved right-of-way. It shall be the jurisdiction of the town’s Stormwater
Board to determine the existence of hazardous conditions on or to improved
rights-of-way, and the determination of the Stormwater Board shall be
controlling.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner and resident of the
property on which a drain is located to ensure that the water from the drain is
not discharging directly onto a sidewalk, walkway, road, street, or other
improved right-of-way and to ensure that such drain is not causing a hazardous
condition on an improved right-of-way. If a drain is causing a hazardous
condition on an improved right- of-way, then the owner shall be responsible for
taking steps necessary to set back the point of discharge or otherwise redirect
the discharge from the drain as directed by the Stormwater Board in order to
remove the hazardous condition.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 2-14-2012) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates §
51.03 shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 2-14-2012)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Duty to obey traffic-control devices
   
70.03   Manual and specification for traffic-control devices
   
70.04   Authority to install
Alleys
   
70.15   Definition
   
70.16   Use of alleys
   
70.17   Speed limit in alleys
   
70.18   Parking in alleys
   
70.19   Obstructing alleys
   
70.20   Permits
   
70.21   Placement of signs
 
   
70.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of all terms contained herein shall be constructed in
accordance with the definitions contained in I.C. 9-13-2 as it may be from time
to time amended.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 70.02 DUTY TO OBEY TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic shall be observe and obey all official traffic-control devices
placed in accordance with this subchapter unless directed by a police officer
or firefighter.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 70.03 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATION FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the state’s
Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways prepared by
the State Highway Commission. All signs and signals required by this subchapter
for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform to type and
location throughout the town. All traffic-control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this subchapter shall be
official traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The Town Council shall have placed and maintained official traffic-control
devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the town to make
effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may place and maintain such
additional traffic-control devices as the Town Council may deem necessary to
regulate, warn, or guide traffic under the traffic ordinances of the town or
state vehicle code.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 9-16-2008)
ALLEYS
§ 70.15 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the terms ALLEY or ALLEYWAY shall mean a
right-of-way other than a street, road, crosswalk, or easement which is
designed for the special accommodation of the property it reaches. Such terms
shall include all unnamed rights-of-way of less than 25 feet in width platted
on the plat maps for the town, excluding any private drives.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 70.16 USE OF ALLEYS.
   No driver of any vehicle shall use an alleyway as a thoroughfare. Alleys may
be used for purposes of going to or departing from a place or property abutting
the section or block of such alley. This restriction shall not apply to
emergency services vehicles (including police, firefighters, and emergency
medical services) that are responding to a call or emergency, nor to utility
vehicles which are seeking access to utility lines or easements, nor to
vehicles driven by municipal employees when performing inspections or other
work for the town.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 8-17-2010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 SPEED LIMIT IN ALLEYS.
   When a driver is operating or driving a vehicle in, on, or through any alley
or portion thereof, the vehicle shall not exceed a speed of ten mph. This
restriction shall not apply to emergency services vehicles (including police,
firefighters, and emergency medical services) that are responding to a call or
emergency.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 8-17-2010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be stopped, left to stand, or parked within an alley except
when loading and unloading for a period of no more than 15 minutes unless a
permit is first obtained from the Town Manager. No person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 8-17-2010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 OBSTRUCTING ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct an alleyway with any object or property,
including, but not limited to, any building, fence, tree, shrub, shed, rock,
post, snow-pile, dirt-pile, compost, mulch, equipment, automobile, or bicycle.
No person shall alter or damage an alley in any manner that will prevent or
obstruct use of the alley as a right-of-way.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked or left standing in an alleyway in violation of
this subchapter shall be considered an “abandoned vehicle” pursuant to §
91.02 and shall be subject to removal pursuant to that code chapter.
   (C)   Other movable objects that are found to be blocking or obstructing an
alleyway shall be subject to being towed or removed by the town without notice.
The owner of the object shall be liable for the reasonable cost of removing and
storing the object until it is claimed.
   (D)   Structures or fixtures blocking an alley shall be subject to
demolition and removal by the town after reasonable notice has been provided to
the owner (if known) to remove the structure or fixture from the alleyway.
However, the town may remove or demolish a structure without notice if it is
determined that the presence of the structure in the right-of-way is creating a
safety hazard or other emergency. Any person found to have violated this
section shall be liable to the town for the cost of removing the structure or
fixture. This section shall not apply to any building with a foundation, fence,
tree, or other permanent fixture that was constructed, planted, or erected in
an alley prior to June 1, 1995.
   (E)   Any person found to be responsible for the cost of demolition,
removal, and storage of a vehicle, structure, or object hereunder, shall also
be subject to any fine imposed pursuant to §
70.99.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 8-17-2010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to use an alley for temporary parking, for loading and
unloading for a period of more than 15 minutes, or for a neighborhood block
party may apply to the Town Manager for temporary permit. The Town Manager
shall issue a permit to any applicant applying for a permit for one of the
above stated reasons provided that the use of the alley shall not block the
driveway entrance to any property abutting the alley. The applicants shall bear
the cost of mailing notice of the permit to each non-applicant property owner
abutting the alley at least 24 hours in advance of the activity in question.
Permits shall be issued for no more than 12 hours of duration. The applicants
shall keep a copy of the permit available for inspection by any law enforcement
officer during the period that the alleyway is being used.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 70.21 PLACEMENT OF SIGNS.
   No person shall be subject to any fine for violating §
70.17 until a proper traffic-control device or sign has been erected on such
alley. Any such sign shall comply with the requirements of the state’s Uniform
Traffic-Control Devices Manual, if applicable.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
70.01 through
70.04, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 plus any
additional fines and fees as imposed by the governing court.
   (C)   Any person operating a vehicle in violation of §§
70.15 through
70.21 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each violation.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2010-04, passed 8-17-2010)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Prohibited parking areas
   
71.02   Exceptions
   
71.03   Definitions
   
71.04   Enforcement; citation
   
71.05   Temporary parking restrictions
   
71.06   Parking regulations by district
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PROHIBITED PARKING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle in any yard that abuts a street. It
shall be unlawful to park a vehicle over any part of a sidewalk or curb
including the part of the sidewalk that is part of or crosses a driveway.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 00-005, passed 8-15-2000) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, parking shall not be prohibited in the
following areas:
   (A)   Parking within ten feet of the edge of a street where no curb is
present, provided that the vehicle is not parked over or otherwise obstructing
a sidewalk or other public right-of-way; or
   (B)   Parking in a yard for the purpose of unloading a vehicle, washing a
vehicle, or some other similar purpose. The vehicle, however, must be removed
from the yard once the task is completed.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 00-005, passed 8-15-2000)
§ 71.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPROVED PARKING AREA.
      (1)   A section of the lot that has been altered and defined by concrete,
asphalt, or gravel, with a positive boundary, for the means of providing a
parking space for a vehicle.
      (2)   The unproved area must be entered via a driveway or curb cut,
except where adjacent to a paved street where there is no curb. The unproved
area must meet the setback requirements and other applicable zoning provisions.
The Zoning Administrator or Plan Commission must determine compliance of any
IMPROVED AREA with all zoning code provisions.
   YARD. A space on any lot that does not contain a building, structure, or
improvement, including an improved driveway or parking area.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 00-005, passed 8-15-2000)
§ 71.04 ENFORCEMENT; CITATION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer or the Town Manager may enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The preceding authorized persons shall be known as “officer” for
the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the violator shall be the person to
whom the unlawful parked vehicle is registered. A separate violation occurs
each day that a vehicle is parked in a prohibited area.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6 et seq., the Town Manager may bring a legal
action to enforce this chapter and to enjoin any person from continuing to
violate this chapter. If legal action shall become necessary, the town shall be
entitled to recover litigation costs and attorneys fees in addition to any
other penalty imposed by operation of this chapter.
(Ord. 00-005, passed 8-15-2000) (Prior Code, § 70.04)
§ 71.05 TEMPORARY PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Road closure by resolution. The Town Council may, from time to time,
close or restrict access to or use of any road, or other public right-of-way,
within the town by adoption of a resolution in compliance with this section,
except as otherwise specified herein.
   (B)   Temporary regulation of parking by resolution. The Town Council may,
from time to time, restrict or regulate standing or parking of vehicles on any
road or public right-of-way within the town by adoption of a resolution in
compliance of this section except as otherwise specified herein.
   (C)   Content of resolution. Each resolution restricting access to or use of
a public right-of-way or restricting or regulating standing or parking on a
public right-of-way shall specify the name of the roads or rights-of-way to be
restricted, the dates and times of the restriction, and the nature of the
restriction. If only a portion of the road is restricted, the resolution shall
describe in plain language which portions of the road shall be restricted.
   (D)   State highways. No resolution shall restrict access to or the use of a
highway within the state highway system unless written permission is first
obtained from the state’s Department of Transportation pursuant to I.C. 9-21-4-
2.
   (E)   Published notice. The Town Manager shall cause to be published in the
County Courier notice of the passage of any resolution adopted hereunder prior
to the effective date of the road closure, parking or standing restriction, or
right-of-way restriction.
   (F)   Placement of appropriate signs. No person shall be subject to any fine
pursuant to §
71.99 until a proper traffic-control device or sign has been erected on such
street or right-of way. Any such sign shall comply with the requirements of the
state’s Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways
(“Traffic Manual”).
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 6-3-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 PARKING REGULATIONS BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Parking in residential districts. The only vehicles permitted to be
parked in residential districts in the city shall be:
      (1)   Operable and properly licensed automobiles, vans, and motorcycles,
and no such automobiles, vans, or motorcycles shall be parked other than in the
driveway or street of said residential districts;
      (2)   Operable recreational vehicles, campers, boats, and trucks (one-
ton, panel, or pickup), and pull-trailers (including small utility trailers),
which shall only be parked in the driveway or garage of said residential
district but not in the street or public alleyway;
      (3)   The following vehicles will not be permitted to be parked in said
residential districts: semi-trucks, truck-tractors, farm tractors, road
tractors, semi-trailers, oversize vehicles, school buses, church buses, or
inoperable automobiles, vans, motorcycles, recreation vehicles, campers, boats,
and trucks;
      (4)   No vehicle shall stop, stand, or park upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
         (a)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
         (b)   Service and/or repairing such vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
      (5)   No vehicle shall be parked in a yard or on any non-impervious
surface.
   (B)   Parking in commercial, industrial, and agricultural districts. The
only vehicles permitted to be parked in commercial, industrial, and
agricultural districts in the town shall be:
      (1)   Operable and properly licensed cars, vans, motorcycles, trucks,
semi-trucks, truck-tractors, farm tractors, road tractors, semi-trailers,
oversize vehicles; school buses, church buses, and boats;
      (2)   All operable and properly licensed vehicles shall only be parked on
a driveway or parking lot but not on a public street or alleyway except as
necessary to load or unload, but in no event shall a vehicle be permitted to
completely block a street or alleyway or a private drive or road;
      (3)   No tractor trailers or other trailers shall be parked on a property
for use as outside storage;
      (4)   No inoperable or unlicensed/plated vehicle shall be parked on a
property within view of any public right-of-way or neighboring property; and
      (5)   No vehicle shall stop, stand, or park upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
         (a)   Displaying such vehicle for sale, except on properly licensed
automobile dealership lots; or
         (b)   Service and/or repairing such vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-14-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person operating a vehicle on or otherwise using any road or
right-of-way in any manner in violation of a resolution adopted hereunder,
after the posting of any sign as required by this chapter, shall be subject to
a fine of not more than $750 for each violation.
   (B)   Any person parking a vehicle in violation of §
71.06 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each violation.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 6-3-2008; Ord. 2017-13, passed 12-14-2017)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Operation on private property
Golf Carts and Off-Road Vehicles
   
72.15   Definitions
   
72.16   Compliance required
   
72.17   Operator requirements
   
72.18   Proof of insurance
   
72.19   Time of operation
   
72.20   Place of operation
   
72.21   Occupants
   
72.22   Traffic rules
   
72.23   Slow moving vehicle sign
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 OPERATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a snowmobile, motorcycle,
all-terrain vehicle, or any recreational vehicle on any private property
without the explicit consent of the properly owner or occupant.
(Prior Code, § 71.01)
   (B)   The driver of any recreational vehicle in violation of division (A)
above shall be liable for any cost of damages caused.
(Prior Code, § 71.02)
Penalty, see §
72.99
GOLF CARTS AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 72.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the content clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid current license to operate a motor vehicle issued
by Indiana or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. Has the definition provided in I.C. 9-13-2-69.7. As it now
exists, that term means
a four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed and intended
to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the purpose of playing
the game of golf on a golf course.
   HIGHWAY. Has the definition provided in I.C. 9-13-2-73.
   LOW SPEED VEHICLE. Has the definition provided in I.C. 9-13-2-94.5
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. Has the definition provided in I.C. 14-8-2-185.
   OPERATE. Has the definition provided in I.C. 14-16-1-4.
   STREET. Has the definition provided in I.C. 9-13-2-73.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 72.16 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The operation of a golf cart or off-road vehicle on a highway, street, road,
or alleyway under the jurisdiction of the town is strictly prohibited unless
the golf cart or off-road vehicle is operated and equipped in full compliance
with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-11-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid, current driver’s
license may operate a golf cart or off-road vehicle on a street, highway, or in
the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 72.18 PROOF OF INSURANCE.
   The operator of a golf cart or off-road vehicle must show proof of financial
responsibility when operating a golf cart or off-road vehicle. Written proof of
financial responsibility must be available either on the golf cart/off-road
vehicle or carried by the operator at all times.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 72.19 TIME OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts and off-road vehicles shall not be operated on the town streets
during one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless the
golf cart or off-road vehicle is equipped with two operating headlights (one on
each side of the front of the golf cart or off-road vehicle) and two operating
tail lights with brake lights (one on each side of the rear of the cart or
vehicle) which are visible from a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-11-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   Golf cars and off-road vehicles may be operated on town streets. Golf carts
and off-road vehicles may not be operated on State Road 1 or any other state or
federal highway except to cross said highways at a 90-degree angle.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-11-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants in a golf cart or off-road vehicle shall be limited
to the number of persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on
the golf cart or off-road vehicle. The operator and all occupants shall be
seated in the golf cart or off-road vehicle and no part of the body of the
operator or occupant shall extend outside the perimeter of the cart or vehicle
while the cart or vehicle is being operated.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-11-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 TRAFFIC RULES.
   The operator of the golf cart or off-road vehicle shall comply with all
traffic rules and regulations adopted by the state and the town which govern
the operation of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 72.23 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE SIGN.
   All slow moving vehicle, golf cart, or other off-road vehicle that is not
under ordinary circumstances moved, operated, or driven at a speed greater than
25 mph must display on the back of the vehicle a “slow moving vehicle” emblem
in accordance with I.C. 9-21-9-1.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-11-2016)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Operation of a golf cart or off-road vehicle on a highway, street,
road, or alleyway under the jurisdiction of the town in a manner that violates
the traffic rules and regulations adopted by the state or the town may be cited
on a uniform traffic ticket as a state infraction or a municipal ordinance
violation, as applicable. Any person operating a golf cart within the town in a
manner in violation of §§
72.15 through
72.23 shall be subject to a fine up to $200 for each offense, plus court costs
and attorney fees incurred by the town in prosecuting the violation.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-11-2016)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Yield and stop intersections
   
III.   Traffic regulations
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Streets in the town shall have a maximum speed limit of 30 mph unless
otherwise posted and listed below. When a driver is operating or driving a
vehicle in, on, or through any alley or portion thereof, the vehicle shall not
exceed a speed of ten mph. This restriction shall not apply to emergency
services vehicles (including police, firefighters, and emergency medical
services) that are responding to a call or emergency.
   (B)   The speed limit in low volume platted subdivision streets is hereby
established to be 20 mph.
   (C)   Other limits:
Street Location Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                  Location               Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Amstutz Road            Between State Road 1   30 mph      2007-02  2-6-2007
                        and Hosler Road
Amstutz Road            Between Donald Avenue  30 mph      2023-10  12-5-2023
                        and Hosler Road
Apple Acres subdivision All streets            20 mph      2001-08  12-4-2001
                        From the western town
                        limit, beginning at
Hosler Road             Halter to the bridge   40 mph      2017-04  7-8-2017
                        over the Nettlehorst
                        Ditch
                        From the bridge over
                       the Nettlehorst Ditch  35 mph      2017-04  7-8-2017
                        to the Pioneer Village
                        entrance
                        From the Pioneer
                       Village entrance east  30 mph      2017-04  7-8-2017
                        to State Road 1
Lochner Road            Between Schlatter Road 40 mph      2008-06  9-16-2008
                        and State Road 1
Residential streets     All streets            20 mph      2004-07  10-10-2004
 
   (D)   (1)   Speed limits within residential districts. Within the town, no
person may drive a vehicle greater than 20 mph in any residential district.
      (2)   Definition of residential districts. For purposes of this division
(D), the term RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS shall mean territory contiguous to and
including a street, when the property on the street for a distance of at least
500 feet is primarily improved with residences and not comprising a business
district.
      (3)   Speed limits on certain roads. Within the town no person may drive
a vehicle greater than 20 mph on any of the following streets.
Alta Vista Drive
Annabelle Place
Bakers Mill Court
Baroness Place
Bear Creek Court
Beulah Drive
Birky Drive
Black Street
Blacksmith Run
Blackstone Court
Bobcat Court
Bobcat Trail
Brent Court
Cabin Court
Cedar Street
Center Street
Cherry Street
Covered Wagon Trail
Donald Avenue
Dunlap Drive
Elsworth Street
Elvina Drive
Ewing Street
Flint Court
Flint Creek Crossing
Greystone Court
Homestead Ridge Parkway
Ivans Lane
James Drive
Key Court
Lake Shore Drive
Lakeview Drive
Laurel Ridge Place
Leo Creek Boulevard
Lilac Lane
Lionsgate Passage
Main Street (north)
Main Street (south)
Manning Street (north)
Manning Street (south)
Markham Court
Marsha Avenue (north)
Marsha Avenue (south)
Metea Court
Metea Valley Parkway
Michael Drive
Mildred Avenue
Miller Lane
Multirose Lane
North Leo Drive
Nugget Court
Pearl Street
Pioneer Creek Court
Pioneer Trail
Poplar Creek Place
Red Cloud Court
Red Fox Way
Reservoir Road
Ridgecrest Court
Ridgecrest Drive
Rio Vista Drive
Riverdale Road
Riverview Drive
Rolling Oaks Place
Running Deer Trail
Settlers Trail
Shore Line Drive
St. Joseph Street
Stuckey Lane
Sunny Side Lane
Trading Post Road
Trappers Cove
Virgo Run
Walnut Street (north)
Walnut Street (south)
Washington Street
Wayne Street
White Horse Court
Wild Meadow Place
Wilderness Creek Court
 
   (E)   (1)   Establishment of designated school zone. There is hereby
designated a school zone for purposes of establishing a reduced speed limit
within the town around the Leo Elementary School. Specifically, this designated
school zone is established along Hosler Road between Amstutz Road and Wayne
Street; and along Wayne Street between Hosler Road and State Road 1.
      (2)   Speed limit established. No person may drive a vehicle greater than
25 mph within the designated school zone during the period between 7:30 a.m.
and 8:30 a.m. and between 2:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m.
      (3)   Sign postings. Signs designating the reduced speed limits and
relevant times shall be posted as follows.
 
On Hosler 779’ west of the Wayne Street and Hosler Street intersection
On Hosler 172’ east of the Wayne Street and Hosler Street intersection
On Wayne  15’ south of the Wayne Street and Hosler Street intersection
On Wayne  15’ north of the Wayne Street and SRI intersection.
 
   (F)   No person shall be subject to any fine pursuant to division (G) below
until a proper traffic- control device or sign has been erected on such street.
Any such sign shall comply with the requirements of the state’s Uniform
Traffic-Control Devices Manual, if applicable.
   (G)   Any person operating a vehicle in violation of this schedule shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each violation.
(Prior Code, Ch. 72 Schd. I) (Ord. 3.4-2, passed 4-7-1997; Ord. 2004-07, passed
10-5-2004; Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-6-2007; Ord. 2007-05, passed 11-20-2007; Ord.
2008-06, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2010-04, passed 8-17-2010; Ord. 2017-04, passed
7-8-2017; Ord. 2020-05, passed 9-15-2020; Ord. 2023-10, passed 12-5-2023)
SCHEDULE II. YIELD AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Any person or persons driving a motor vehicle shall stop or yield according
to the following provisions.
Street Direction Location Type Ord. No. Date Passed
Street           Direction     Location         Type       Ord. No. Date Passed
                               Intersection of
Cherry Street    South         Washington       Stop       2004-04  5-4-2004
                               Street
Hosler Road                    All intersection Stop       2001-07  12-4-2001
                               with Wayne
Leo Creek        East and West Intersection of  3-way Stop 2023-10  12-5-2023
Boulevard                      Annabelle Place
Main Street      North                         Stop       7.3-1    6-4-1996
Main Street      West          Intersection of  Stop       2006-05  5-16-2006
                               Nebulah Street
                               All intersection
Michael Drive                  of Rio Vista     Stop       2006-06  5-16-2006
                               Drive
                               All intersection
Michael Drive                  of Alta Vista    Stop       2006-06  5-16-2006
                               Drive
Nebulah Street   South         Intersection of  Stop       2006-04  5-16-2006
                               Hosler Road
St. Joseph       East          Intersection of  Yield      7.3-1    6-4-1996
Street                         Main Street
St. Joseph       West          Intersection of  Stop       7.3-1    6-4-1996
Street                         Main Street
Wayne Street                  All intersection 4-way Stop 2020-04  6-16-2020
                               with Main Street
Merchantile Village
Pony Express Run               At Trading Post  Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Road
Metea Valley
Black Wolf Pass                At Flint Creek   Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Crossing
Broad Ax Trail                 At Whitetail Run Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
(2)
Greystone Court                At Metea Valley  Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Parkway
Metea Valley                   At Hosler Road   Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Parkway
Metea Valley                   At Flint Creek   Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Parkway                        Crossing
Pioneer Village
Bakers Mill                    At Covered Wagon Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Court                          Trail
Bear Creek Court               At Settlers      Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Trail
Blacksmith Run                 At Trading Post  Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Road
                               All intersection
Blacksmith Run                 with Trading     3-way stop 2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Post Road
Blackstone Court               At Covered Wagon Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Trail
Bobcat Court                   At Settlers      Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Trail
Bobcat Trail                   At Settlers      Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Trail
Bobcat Trail                   At Metea Valley  Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Parkway
Cabin Court                    At Bobcat Trail  Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Covered Wagon                  At Trading Post  Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Trail                          Road
Covered Wagon                  At Pioneer Trail Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Trail
Covered Wagon                  All intersection
Trail                          with Pioneer     3-way stop 2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Trail
Flint Court                    At Pioneer Trail Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Metea Court                    At Trading Post  Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Road
Nugget Trail                   At Bobcat Trail  Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Pioneer Creek                  At Bobcat Trail  Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Court
Red Cloud Court                At Settlers      Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Trail
Red Fox Way                    At Black Smith   Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Run
Settlers Trail                 At Hosler Road   Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               All intersection
Settlers Trail                 with Bobcat      4-way stop 2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Court and Bobcat
                               Trail
Trading Post                   At Amstutz Road  Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Road
Trapper’s Cove               At Settlers      Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Trail
White Horse                    At Pioneer Trail Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Court (2)
Wild Horse Court               At Trading Post  Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
                               Road
Yellow Feather                 At Settlers      Stop       2006-09  9-5-2006
Court (2)                      Trail
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72 Schd. II) (Ord. 2004-04, passed 5-4-2004; Ord. 2006-04,
passed 5-16-2006; Ord. 2006-05, passed 5-16-2006; Ord. 2006-06, passed 5-16-
2006; Ord. 2006-09, passed 9-5-2006; Ord. 2020- 04, passed 6-16-2020) Penalty,
see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Traffic leaving Leo High School.
      (1)   No vehicle may make a left turn (i.e., south) when exiting the
circle drive in front of Leo High School onto Amstutz Road. Vehicles exiting
the circle drive of Leo High School shall only turn right (i.e., north) onto
Amstutz Road.
      (2)   Any person operating a vehicle in violation of this division (A)
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $200 for each violation.
      (3)   No person shall be subject to any fine pursuant to division (A)(2)
until a proper traffic- control device or sign has been erected on such street
or at such intersection. Any such sign shall comply with the requirements of
the state’s Uniform Traffic-Control Devices Manual, if applicable.
   (B)   Through truck traffic prohibited.
      (1)   Definitions. For purposes of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply:
         TRUCKS. A motor vehicle with more than one axle.
         THROUGH TRAFFIC. Vehicular traffic traversing a town road or street
without a commercial reason to stop.
      (2)   Prohibition on through traffic. Through traffic by trucks is
prohibited on Walnut Street west of Wayne Street and on Donald Avenue east of
Amstutz Road in the town.
      (3)   Exemptions. This division (B) shall not apply to emergency services
vehicles, school buses, trash collection trucks belonging to a company that has
a valid solid waste disposal contract with the town, trucks making deliveries
to or picking up items from residents or businesses on Walnut Street or Donald
Avenue or a local road intersecting with Donald Avenue or Walnut Street, moving
vans and trucks belonging to a business or resident of Walnut Street, Donald
Avenue or Apple Acres Addition.
      (4)   Violations. Any person operating a vehicle in violation of this
ordinance shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each violation.
      (5)   Placement of appropriate signs. No person shall be subject to any
fine pursuant to division (B)(4) above until proper traffic control devices or
signs have been erected at the intersection of Wayne and Walnut Streets and at
the intersection of Donald Avenue and Amstutz Road. Any such sign shall comply
with the requirements of the Indiana Uniform Traffic Control Devices Manual, if
applicable.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 2-23-2012; Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-22-2017; Ord. 2020-07,
passed 10-6-2020)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking areas
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Parking regulations.
 
No parking area                                       Ord. No.     Date Passed
There is to be no parking along the west side of
Amstutz Road within the designated school zone as     Ord. 2006-10 9-5-2006
indicated by the amber school zone flashers.
There will be a no parking zone on the north side of
Manning Street, beginning approximately 91 feet west
from the centerline of State Road 1 (mailbox and      Ord. 2008-07 9-16-2008
driveway approach of resident). This area is
approximately 48 feet in length and shall be
designated by appropriate signage.
There shall be no parking along Lions Passage or
Poplar Creek in front of lots 24, 25, 26, 27, and 28,
48, 49 and 50 of the Lionsgate Passage Subdivision.   Ord. 2019-03 - -2019
This area is approximately 550 feet in length and
shall be designated by appropriate signage.
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any violator of this schedule shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $50 or more than $100 to be determined by the court and shall be
further subject to all provisions of §§
71.04,
71.99, and
72.99 of this code. Further, the violator shall be responsible for all costs
incurred in towing and impoundment of the improperly parked vehicle and storage
thereof and for any costs and attorney fees incurred by the town in enforcing
this schedule. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 9-5-2006; Ord. 2008-07, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2019-03,
passed - -2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   TREES
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Proper shelter, care, and food
   
90.02   Abandonment prohibited
   
90.03   Removal of excrement
   
90.04   Restraint requirement
   
90.05   Animals in heat
   
90.06   Excessive noise
   
90.07   Beating or inhumane treatment
   
90.08   Stray animals
   
90.09   Dangerous animals
   
90.10   Wild or exotic animals
   
90.11   Animals that bite
   
90.12   Rabies; vaccination
§ 90.01 PROPER SHELTER, CARE, AND FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall confine or allow his or her animal to remain outside
without access to appropriate shelter from the elements.
   (B)   All animals shall have fresh, potable drinking water available and
have food available that is nutritional for the species in adequate amounts to
maintain good health. All animals shall be provided with necessary medical care
in addition to the required rabies vaccination. All animals, where kept inside,
in a pen, tied, fastened, hitched, leashed, or enclosed by a fence, shall be
kept in a sanitary manner. The person(s) responsible for the animal shall
regularly and as often as necessary to prevent odor or health and sanitation
problems, maintain all animal areas or areas of animal contact.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon or cause to be abandoned any animal anywhere within
the town limits in a public or private place, way, or business.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT.
   Persons responsible for an animal shall immediately remove the animal’s
excrement from public lands or from the property of another, excepting a blind
person with a guide dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 RESTRAINT REQUIREMENT.
   All animals shall be properly restrained. Choker collars are not allowed if
the animal is unattended.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a secure building or
enclosure so as to prevent conception, except during instances of planned
breeding.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   No person shall allow excessive barking, yelping, whining, or howling of a
dog. The animal control officer may take steps immediately to correct the
situation and cause the noise to be abated, either through issuance of a
citation or impounding the animal if no owner or agent can be found at the time
of the disturbance.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 BEATING OR INHUMANE TREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall beat, cruelly treat, neglect, torment, overload,
overwork, or otherwise abuse any animal, except that reasonable force may be
employed to drive off or stop the attack of an animal in order to protect a
person or another animal from imminent harm or danger.
   (B)   No animal may be induced or encouraged to perform through the use of
chemical, mechanical, electrical cattle prods, or manual devices in a planner
which will cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, trade, barter, or give away any
live animal, fish, bird, or reptile as a prize or as an inducement to enter a
place of an amusement, or offer the vertebrate as an incentive to enter any
business establishment, or enter into any business agreement whereby the offer
was made for the purpose of attracting trade or for business other than an
establishment selling animals as their primary business.
   (D)   No puppy or kitten that is under the age of eight weeks may be offered
for sale, trade, or for other compensation or for free giveaway, except a puppy
or kitten or litter or litters may be taken to the animal control shelter.
   (E)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, trade, or barter any animal
whose appearance has been chemically altered by dyes or staining.
   (F)   No person or establishment shall sell, offer for sale, barter, or give
away chicks, goslings, ducklings, or other fowl as pets or novelties.
   (G)   No person shall permit or conduct any dog fight, cockfight, or other
combat between animals or between animals and humans.
   (H)   No person shall set any type of poisonous substance or bait within the
town that is deemed harmful and available to any domestic animal. Controlled
programs under the direction or approval of the County Board of Health or a
licensed extermination service may be excluded.
   (I)   Any person operating a motor vehicle who causes injury or death to a
domestic animal shall stop, assess the extent of injury, and immediately notify
the owner, a licensed veterinarian, or an animal control shelter of the
location of the animal. If this is not possible, they shall otherwise arrange
for the reasonable care of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   Persons finding and holding a stray animal are to notify the County
Department of Animal Control within 48 hours. At the discretion of the
department, the animal may be kept by the finder and a found report left with
the department to enable the finder an opportunity to return the animal to its
rightful owner.
   (B)   Persons finding an animal are obligated to comply with all rules and
regulations of this chapter pertaining to humane care and treatment of animals
while the animal is in their custody awaiting return to its actual owner. The
finder will be considered the found animal’s owner for the purposes of this
chapter only after the animal is in the finder’s custody for 30 continuous days
and the legal owner has not claimed it.
(Prior Code, § 90.08)
§ 90.09 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor a dangerous animal within the
town. In order to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare of the
community, the destruction of any dangerous animal found in the town is
necessary. An animal may be declared dangerous if the animal exhibits vicious
behavior in present or past conduct, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Evidence that the animal has, without provocation, bitten or
attacked a person and/or animal three times in a consecutive 12-month period;
      (2)   Did bite or attack, once causing wounds or injuries creating a
potential danger to the health or life of the victim; or
      (3)   Could not be controlled or restrained at the time of a bite or
attack upon an animal or person.
   (B)   This declaration may be appealed by the owner(s) to the Town Council.
The appeal shall follow the process outlined herein.
(Prior Code, § 90.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.10 WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   No wild or exotic animal shall be kept within the town without the necessary
state and/or federal permits.
(Prior Code, § 90.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.11 ANIMALS THAT BITE.
   The person responsible for any animal that has bitten a person or another
animal must report the incident to the County Department of Animal Control.
Upon receiving the report of a bite, the Department may quarantine the animal
for ten days with the place of confinement to be at the discretion of the
County Department of Animal Control. During the quarantine period, the animal
is to be securely confined and kept from contact with any other person or
animal. During the quarantine period, the owner must provide a current rabies
vaccination certificate for his or her cat or dog that is being quarantined. If
proof of vaccination cannot be supplied, the animal will be vaccinated by a
veterinarian at the owner’s expense before release.
(Prior Code, § 90.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.12 RABIES; VACCINATION.
   (A)   No person shall kill or cause to be killed any animal suspected of
being rabid, except in cases of immediate protection of a person or another
animal. If that occurs, the person will retain the body and immediately notify
the County Department of Animal Control. Exceptions to this include:
      (1)   An animal control officer;
      (2)   A licensed veterinarian; or
      (3)   Law enforcement officers or firefighters acting to prevent undue
suffering.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to keep the
animal that is more than three months of age unless it has been vaccinated with
anti-rabies vaccine. Each dog or cat shall be vaccinated once per year and
proof of the vaccination shall be maintained by the owner. Both cats and dogs
must wear a current rabies tag at all times attached to a properly fitted
collar or harness. Failure to have a dog or cat vaccinated may result in the
impoundment or the destruction of the animal. The owner of any unvaccinated
animal may have a judgment of not more than $100 entered against him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Prohibition and removal
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Enforcement; citation
§ 91.01 PROHIBITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any vehicle within the
boundaries of the town.
   (B)   The town shall have the right to remove or cause to be removed any
abandoned vehicle from any public or private property including any street,
alleyway, or other public right-of-way or easement.
   (C)   The owner of the vehicle shall be liable for the reasonable cost of
removal and storage of the vehicle until claimed, and the town or person
removing the vehicle shall have a lien on the vehicle to secure repayment of
the costs of towing and storing the vehicle pursuant to the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 00-006, passed 8-15-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle illegally located on public property.
      (2)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of the property for more than 48 hours.
   VEHICLE. A devise in, upon, or by which a person or property is or may be
transported. The term includes, but is not limited to, cars, trucks, vans,
motorcycles, bikes, boats, trailers, and campers.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 00-006, passed 8-15-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 ENFORCEMENT; CITATION.
   The Clerk-Treasurer or the Town Manager may enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The preceding authorized persons shall be known as “officer” for the
purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 00-006, passed 8-15-2000)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Offensive personal behavior
   
92.02   Noise control
Environment Nuisances
   
92.15   Purpose and intent
   
92.16   Administration
   
92.17   Definitions
   
92.18   Prohibited activity
   
92.19   Determination of violation
   
92.20   Property owner’s right to appeal notice of violation
   
92.21   Emergency abatement
   
92.22   Enforcement
Property Maintenance
   
92.35   Public nuisances prohibited
   
92.36   Public nuisance defined
   
92.37   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.38   Storage of public nuisances for personal use or for sale or use in
business
Open Burning
   
92.50   Definitions
   
92.51   Authorized open burning
   
92.52   Open burning conditions
   
92.53   Special circumstances
   
92.54   Prohibitions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 OFFENSIVE PERSONAL BEHAVIOR.
   Unhealthy and offensive personal behavior, including, but not limited to,
expectorating, urinating, or defecating on public property or in a public place
in the town is hereby declared to be offensive to the health and senses and to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property of the citizens
of the town, and of the public generally, and is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   Public policy and purpose. It is declared to be the public policy of
the town to promote the health, safety, and welfare of persons within the town
by reducing unreasonable noise from all sources subject to the town’s police
power. Noises above certain levels and unduly repetitive noises may be
detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the citizenry and in the
public interest shall be systematically regulated and proscribed by the town as
authorized by I.C. 36-8-2-4.
   (B)   Scope. As authorized by I.C. 36-8-2-13, this section shall apply to
the control of all noise within the town’s corporate boundaries and all
territory within one mile of the town’s corporate boundaries, as those
boundaries now exist or as they may hereafter be modified.
   (C)   Loud and unnecessary noise prohibited.
      (1)   A person or entity who knowingly, intentionally, or recklessly
makes an unreasonable noise and continues to do so after being asked to stop
violates this section. A person or entity who knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly allows an unreasonable noise to be made or continue to be made in or
on any property owned by or controlled by the person or entity after being
asked to stop the noise by a law enforcement officer or a town official shall
also be in violation of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, a noise is UNREASONABLE if, considering
the nature and purpose of the person’s conduct and the circumstances known to
the person, including the nature and the location of the noise, the location of
third persons, and the time of day or night, the conduct involves a gross
deviation from the standard of conduct that a reasonable person would follow in
the same situation.
      (3)   A determination of a violation of this section may not be based on
the content of any message conveyed during the creation of any noise or on the
identity of any person responsible for or associated with the creation of the
noise, except as necessary to prove that the person had prior knowledge of the
unreasonableness of the noise or to prove the person was previously asked to
stop the noise.
   (D)   Enumeration of certain prohibited acts. In addition to the foregoing,
any person who performs any of the acts enumerated in this division (D), or who
causes or allows the performance of any such act in or upon any property owned
or controlled by him or her, shall violate this section:
      (1)   Playing, using, or operating, or permitting to be played, used, or
operated, any radio, television, digital media player, loudspeaker, sound
amplifier, musical instrument, or any machine or device for producing or
reproducing sound in a mariner that makes a noise which can be heard:
         (a)   From any place other than the property on which the sound source
is located between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; or
         (b)   From a distance greater than 50 feet from the sound source of
the machine or device when it is located in any public street or public place
of the town.
      (2)   Using or operating machinery, equipment, tools, or vehicles between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. when the sound of such machinery,
equipment, tools, or vehicles can be heard from any place other than the
property on which the source of the sound is located, or more than 50 feet of
the machinery, equipment, tool, or vehicle if it is located on a road, street,
alley, or public right-of-way.
      (3)   The continuous or repeated sounding of any horn, siren, or signal
device when not used as a danger signal or call for help. CONTINUOUS shall be
defined to mean the sounding of a horn, siren, or signal device for more than
three seconds. REPEATED shall mean the sounding of a horn, siren, or signal
more than three times.
      (4)   The use of any motor vehicle with or without the attachment of
various appurtenance thereto so as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling, or other noise or noises. This shall include the use of any
vehicle, said use of which causes excessive noise as a result of a defective or
modified exhaust system, or as a result of unnecessary rapid acceleration,
deceleration, revving the engine, or tire squeal, if such noise is not
corrected within seven days of notice of the violation.
   (E)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempted from the provisions of
this chapter:
      (1)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors, and similar home power tools when
properly muffled, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.;
      (3)   Burglar alarms or other warning devices when properly installed on
publicly or privately owned property, providing the cause for such alarm or
warning device sound is investigated and turned off within a reasonable period
of time;
      (4)   Celebrations on the Fourth of July, and other legal holidays
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight (except to 12:30 a.m. on New
Year’s Day);
      (5)   Permitted parades or festivals, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
12:00 midnight, Sunday through Thursday; and between 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m.
Friday through Saturday;
      (6)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic
or sporting events and practices related to them between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 11:00 p.m.;
      (7)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency;
      (8)   In the case of motor vehicles, where the noise is the result of a
defective or modified exhaust system, if the cause is repaired or otherwise
remedied within seven calendar days;
      (9)   Noises associated with legal consumer fireworks used during the
time that the state code prohibits regulation by municipalities. At the time of
the adoption of this section, these times are:
         (a)   June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July
7, July 8, and July 9 between the hours of 5:00 p.m. to two hours after sunset;
         (b)   Day before Memorial Day, Memorial Day, July 4, day before Labor
Day, and Labor Day between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight; and
         (c)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
      (10)   Construction operations and related activities occurring after 6:
00 a.m. and before 10:00 p.m.; and
      (11)   Motorized farming equipment, so long as all such equipment is
operated with the manufacturer’s mufflers and noise reducing equipment in place
and in proper working order.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 2009-01, passed 3-17-2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
ENVIRONMENT NUISANCES
§ 92.15 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to protect the public safety, health,
and welfare and enhance the environment of the people of the town by making it
unlawful to allow an environmental public nuisance to exist. It is the express
intent of this chapter to adopt I.C. 36-7-10.1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-23-2017)
§ 92.16 ADMINISTRATION.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Town Manager, or his or her designee,
to administer this subchapter. The Town Manager may delegate to any other town
employee or agent the authority to make environmental public nuisance
inspections and to issue complaints and notices as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-23-2017)
§ 92.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any growth of weeds and rank vegetation on private or governmental
property which has gone to seed, or which has attained a height of nine inches
or more.
      (2)   Any accumulation of dead weeds, grass, or brush on private or
governmental property.
      (3)   Any poison ivy, ragweed, or other poisonous plant, or plants
detrimental to health, growing on any private or governmental property.
      (4)   Property which has been allowed to become a health or safety
hazard, or which has accumulated litter or waste products, unless specifically
authorized under existing laws and regulations.
   EXCLUDED PROPERTY. Land cultivated for gross profit in a commercial or
agricultural zone; a natural or developed forest, which does not create a
health or safety hazard; and open lands, fields, or wooded areas more than 150
feet from any occupied property. Any land that is the subject of a Conservation
Reserve Program (“CRP”) with the United States Department of Agriculture or
other contract with the state or the federal government which prohibits mowing
or spraying for weed control for purposes of preserving wildlife habitat. Also,
any classified wetlands, designated reforestation or prairie grass/garden
areas, waterfront management areas, and river front areas.
   WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION. Uncultivated and undesirable plant life which
grows excessively and unmanageably upon the land and has little or no public
value, including, but not limited to, grass (over nine inches in height),
thistles, burdock, jimson weed, ragweed, milkweed, poison ivy, poison oak,
ironweed, and other noxious vegetable matter. The term does not include
agricultural crops, hay, pasture, trees, bushes or shrubs which have been
planted or cultivated by the owner or occupant of the property.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-23-2017)
§ 92.18 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of private property or governmental
property to allow an environmental public nuisance to exist on that property,
except on excluded property.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-23-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Complaint. Upon receiving a complaint of any environmental public
nuisance, or upon otherwise discovering such a public nuisance, the Town
Manager (or a duly authorized employee or agent of the town) shall issue a
notice to abate to the owner(s) of record of the property containing the
environmental public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice to abate. The Town Manager or other duly authorized employee or
agent of the town shall cause a written notice to abate to be served upon the
owner(s) of the property in question as set forth herein, granting such owner
(s) a minimum of five calendar days in which to remove the environmental
nuisance, in addition to serving the notice in compliance with division (C)
below, a “notice” placard shall be conspicuously posted on the subject
property. Such notice to abate shall contain the following information: the
address of the property containing the violation, the date of the notice, the
nature of the violation, and a warning that the town through its agent(s) or
contractor(s) will enter onto the property to abate the violation if the owner
fails to abate the violation by a specific date not less than five calendar
days after mailing/posting of the notice. The notice shall also contain a
warning that if the town acts to abate the nuisance, the town will place a lien
against the property to secure repayment of the actual costs involved in the
removal of the nuisance and any penalties assessed.
   (C)   Service of notice.
      (1)   Initial notice. The first notice issued with regards to a property
in a calendar year shall be served upon the owner of the property by certified
mail or first-class mail, or by an equivalent service as permitted by I.C. 1-1-
7-1. If the property has more than one owner, service need only be made on one
of the owners of the property. Any notice served under this division (C) shall
be served by mailing the notice to the last address of the owner for the
property as indicated in the records of the County Auditor on the date of the
notice.
      (2)   Notice of continuous abatement. The town, at its option, may serve
a notice to abate pursuant to division (C)(1) above with regard to each
violation of this subchapter. However, whenever the town takes action to abate
a nuisance after having first served a notice of abatement as set forth in
division (C)(1) above, the town may, at the time of abatement, post a
continuous abatement notice. A continuous abatement notice contains the
following information: the address of the property in question, a statement
that the town has abated a violation to this subchapter occurring on the
property, a warning that the town, through its agents or contractors, may enter
onto the property to abate any violation of this subchapter that occurs during
the same calendar year in which the initial notice of abatement was provided, a
statement that the owner shall be responsible for costs incurred by the town in
abating the nuisance, and a warning that a lien will be placed against the
property to secure repayment of the costs incurred in connection with the
abatement. After the town has posted a continuous abatement notice, the town,
through its agents and contractors, may enter onto the property to abate
subsequent violations of this subchapter which occur in the same calendar year
as the initial notice without mailing notice to the property owner(s) or
posting additional notice.
   (D)   Inspection. Following the expiration of the notice to abate, the Town
Manager or an authorized agent shall visually inspect the property to determine
whether an environmental public nuisance exists. Action shall be taken to abate
any remaining nuisance.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-23-2017)
§ 92.20 PROPERTY OWNER’S RIGHT TO APPEAL NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a notice to abate, the property owner may object to
the notice and notify the Town Council of an intent to appeal the determination
of the violation contained in the notice to abate. This correspondence shall be
in writing, and shall specify the street address of the property involved. Any
such correspondence must be received by the Town Council through the Town
Manager within the amount of time set out in the notice to abate.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of such correspondence, the Town Manager shall
provide copies of same to the Town Attorney and to each member of the Town
Council who shall cause the objection to be investigated and shall set the
matter for hearing at a special meeting or at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Town Council. The Council shall inform the owner of the date and
time of the hearing during which the Council will address the notice to abate
and the objection thereto.
      (2)   At the hearing, the Council or its authorized agent shall
specifically notify the owner of the exact nature of the alleged violation and
the evidence which tends to establish the violation. The owner shall have a
right to address the Council, to submit photographs, written documents, or
other physical evidence or verbal testimony to the Council that, in the
judgment of the Council, is relevant to the issue of the alleged violation. The
owner shall have the right to be represented by an attorney. The hearing on the
issue may be continued by the Council from time to time if necessary, but no
further action shall be pursued against that owner to abate the environmental
public nuisance until resolutions of the objection thereto.
      (3)   Upon the conclusion of the meeting, the Council shall make a
finding, by majority vote, as to whether a violation of this subchapter exists.
If a violation is found to exist, the Council shall give the owner additional
time, not less than five days, to abate the violation.
      (4)   The findings of the Council, a description of any continuing
violation, and the deadline for abating any such violation shall be issued in
writing signed by the President of the Council and attested by the Clerk-
Treasurer, and a copy shall be delivered to the owner.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-23-2017)
§ 92.21 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   With regard to any environmental public nuisance that blocks or prohibits
the view of any oncoming traffic or otherwise poses a significant danger to the
safety of others or their property, the Town Manager or other duly authorized
employee or agent of the town may waive the five-day grace period and abate the
problem as soon as possible if it is deemed necessary in the exercise of
reasonable care to safeguard the safety of others and their property. In such
event, the owner shall be afforded an opportunity for a hearing as specified in
§
92.20(B), before any fines, costs, penalties, or assessments are imposed.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-23-2017)
§ 92.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Citation for violation. If the Town Manager or other authorized
employee or agent of the town (or in the case of a notice of violation that is
appealed, the Town Council) finds that an environmental public nuisance exists
on private property and has not been abated as directed in the written notice
to abate, the Council or authorized agent may cause a citation for violation of
town ordinance to be issued to the offending property owner. Such citation
shall include the amount of any fine, as determined by the penalty schedule set
forth in §
32.04 (or any successor ordinance) or as assessed by the Town Council in
accordance with §
92.99.
   (B)   Abatement. If no objection to the notice to abate has been received,
an authorized agent or contractor may enter onto the property to abate the
violation. If the owner refuses to allow the agent onto the property to abate
the violation, the agent shall cease all abatement activity, and the Council
may, at its discretion, bring a legal action seeking an injunction against the
owner to compel the owner to abate the violation. In such event, the owner
shall be liable to the town for all costs associated with such legal action,
including attorney fees.
   (C)   Invoice for abatement of violation by town. In addition to the
issuance of a citation for violation of a town ordinance under division (A)
above, if the town abates a violation, the town shall make a statement of the
actual cost incurred in eliminating the environmental public nuisance. The
costs shall include: cost of removal of the public nuisance, administrative
fees, and all recording fees associated with the collection of the outstanding
balance. Said statement shall be delivered to the property owner by first-class
mail. Unless an appeal is requested pursuant to division (D) below, the owner
shall pay the amount noted to the town within 30 days after receipt, which
shall be deposited to the town’s General Fund.
   (D)   Appeal of bill.
      (1)   A property owner may appeal the issuance of an invoice by notifying
the Town Council of an intent to appeal the invoice in writing within 15 days
after the invoice was mailed. An appeal from the invoice issued pursuant to
this subchapter will not deal with the issue of whether a violation of the
subchapter occurred; rather, the appeal shall only address whether the amounts
claimed on the invoice reflect reasonable costs incurred by the town in
connection with the abatement of a violation.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such correspondence, the Town Manager shall provide
copies of the same to the Town Attorney and to each member of the Town Council
who shall cause the objection to be investigated and shall set the matter for a
hearing at a special meeting or at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Town Council. The Town Council shall inform the owner of the date and time of
the hearing during which the Council will address the invoice and the objection
thereto. At the hearing, the owner shall have a right to address the Council,
and to submit evidence that, in the judgment of the Council, is relevant to the
subject of the appeal. The owner shall have the right to be represented by an
attorney. Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the Council shall make a finding
of the amount of abatement costs, if any, which will be billed to the owner.
The findings of the Council shall be issued in writing signed by the President
of the Council and attested by the Clerk-Treasurer, and a copy shall be
delivered to the owner. Any amounts determined to be payable by the Council
shall be paid within 15 days of the delivery of the findings to the owner.
   (E)   Failure to pay.
      (1)   If the owner fails to pay the costs of abatement within 30 days
after receiving a statement, a copy of all costs shall be filed in the office
of the County Auditor for the purpose of placing the amount claimed on the tax
duplicate against the property so that the amount claimed can be collected as
taxes are collected, subject to the limitations above.
      (2)   In addition, the town may bring a legal action to recover all
amounts due pursuant to this subchapter, together with court costs and
reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-23-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
§ 92.35 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No owner, occupant, tenant, or any other person having a substantial
interest in any real or personal property within the town, or any agent of such
person, shall permit or allow to remain on or within the property or within the
public ways abutting the real property, any public nuisance.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 12-8-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.36 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED.
   The following materials or conditions shall be considered to constitute a
PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   (A)   Accumulated litter, garbage, or trash;
   (B)   Demolition remains;
   (C)   Any dilapidated structure, dwelling house, accessory structures (as
defined in the town zoning code), or other buildings that have been condemned
by the County Building Department or any other government building inspection
authority or are otherwise unsuitable for human habitation or use or are so out
of repair that they constitute a fire hazard or other health and safety hazard
to surrounding properties;
   (D)   Structures defaced with graffiti or other unsightly vandalism;
   (E)   Structures lacking siding or roof shingling or other covering
necessary to protect the structure from damage by the elements, or otherwise in
a dilapidated, unfinished, or other unsightly condition so as to reduce the
attractiveness and/or value of surrounding properties for resale;
   (F)   Inoperable, unlicensed, or untitled motor vehicle including any
vehicle in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being
stripped or dismantled;
   (G)   Any broken concrete, scrap metals, plastic, rubber, brick, pottery, or
glass, or other scrap material;
   (H)   Motor vehicle parts, tires, machine parts, construction materials, or
broken appliances;
   (I)   Any rusted or broken personal property which creates a risk of fire or
injury to children or adults;
   (J)   Any object or condition that restricts a public right-of-way or which
creates an unsafe distraction to operators of motor vehicles traveling on any
public right-of-way;
   (K)   Any dead domestic or wild animal:
   (L)   Any animal or human waste, excrement, bones, or shavings;
   (M)   Oil, gas, grease, paint, or other combustible or inflammable chemicals
or material;
   (N)   Any caustic, poisonous, or otherwise hazardous materials;
   (O)   Any noxious odors, smoke, dust, or other particle matter that emits
from the property onto any surrounding property or into the atmosphere and
creates a hazardous condition to surrounding properties, or interferes with the
surrounding property owners quiet use and enjoyment of their land;
   (P)   Any personal property or condition of real property that is infected
with any communicable disease; and
   (Q)   Any personal property or condition of real property that is home to,
or tends to attract, rodents, insects, or stray or wild animals in such a
manner as to create a health hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 12-8-2015)
§ 92.37 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to the conditions set forth in §
92.36, those conditions which are known to common law and/or the statutes of
the state as nuisances may, when found to exist within the town limits, be
treated as a “public nuisance” under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 12-8-2015)
§ 92.38 STORAGE OF PUBLIC NUISANCES FOR PERSONAL USE OR FOR SALE OR USE IN
BUSINESS.
   Any person who regularly stores material or maintains property in a
condition that constitutes a public nuisance herein for personal use or any
business which, in the regular course of business, uses or sells in such
business any material or condition or property that is defined as a public
nuisance herein, shall be permitted to store or maintain such public nuisance
under the following conditions.
   (A)   The material that constitutes a public nuisance or the condition of
property that constitutes a public nuisance must be stored or maintained in a
place or in a manner that it is not visible from any public right-of-way or any
surrounding property.
   (B)   The material or condition must be stored in a manner that is
consistent with all applicable state laws and all federal laws, fire codes,
building codes, health department regulations, and environmental laws.
   (C)   Copies of all inspection reports and permits issued by the State Fire
Marshal, IDEM, the County Board of Health, or the County Building Department,
or other regulating administrative agency concerning the material or condition
that constitutes the public nuisance, must be filed with the Town Manager.
   (D)   Any business selling any material that constitutes a public nuisance
herein must keep an up-to-date inventory of such material. All material kept
for sale must be stored in an orderly, organized fashion.
   (E)   All material that constitutes a public nuisance as defined herein and
which is stored in a manner that exposes such material to the weather or the
elements, must be stored in a manner that will prevent the accumulation of
water either on or in the item or on the property.
   (F)   All material that constitutes a public nuisance as defined herein must
be stored in a manner that will prevent it from falling or breaking or from
creating a risk of injury to any person or damage to or trespass on any
surrounding property.
   (G)   All material that constitutes a public nuisance as defined herein must
be stored in a manner that will prevent it from emitting any noxious odor,
smoke, dust, or other particle matter into the atmosphere or onto surrounding
properties in sufficient quantity so as to substantially interfere with the
public’s or the surrounding landowner’s quiet use and enjoyment of the property
or to create a health risk or common law nuisance.
   (H)   All material that constitutes a public nuisance as defined herein must
be stored in a manner that prevents sludge, bilge water, sewage, swill,
wastewater or other polluted run-off caused by the material from entering onto
the right-of-way or any other property in sufficient quantity so as to
interfere with the public’s or the surrounding property owner’s quiet use and
enjoyment of the property or to create a health risk or common law nuisance.
   (I)   All material must be kept clean of rodents, insects, vermin, or other
stray or wild animals.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 12-8-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT. Equipment sufficient and appropriate under
the circumstances to extinguish the fire.
   CLEAN PETROLEUM PRODUCTS. An uncontaminated, refined petroleum product, such
as kerosene or diesel fuel, not previously used in any application.
   CLEAN WOOD PRODUCTS. Wood products, including vegetation, that are not
coated with stain, paint, glue, or other coating material.
   DRAINAGE DITCH. Has the meaning of regulated drain or open drain under I.C.
36-9-27-2.
   EMERGENCY BURNING. The burning of clean wood waste or deceased animals
caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the following:
      (1)   A tornado;
      (2)   High winds;
      (3)   An earthquake;
      (4)   An explosion; and
      (5)   A hail storm, a rain storm, or an ice storm.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE CONTAINER. A container that is sufficiently vented to induce
adequate primary combustion having enclosed sides with a bottom and is
sufficiently resistant to heat damage that it is able to contain the material
being burned.
   OPEN BURN. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants resulting
from combustion are emitted directly into the air, without passing through a
stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
   REFUSE. Any material that is not vegetation or clean wood products, and
includes garbage, rubbish, trash, and trade-waste.
   SMOKE. Gas-borne particles resulting from incomplete combustion, consisting
predominately, but not exclusively of carbon, ash, and other combustible
materials that form a visible plume in the air.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-7-2003)
§ 92.51 AUTHORIZED OPEN BURNING.
   A person may open burn for the following reasons:
   (A)   For maintenance purposes a person may open burn as follows:
      (1)   Vegetation may be burned from:
         (a)   A farm;
         (b)   An orchard;
         (c)   A nursery;
         (d)   A tree farm; or
         (e)   A drainage ditch.
      (2)   The County Highway Department may burn vegetation and wood products
derived from pruning or clearing a roadside.
   (B)   For recreational, social, or religious purposes, a person may open
burn as follows.
      (1)   Fires may be made for cooking, celebration, religious or social
ceremonies, or personal comfort, provided that such fires comply with the
requirements of division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   All fires under this section must comply with the following:
         (a)   Only clean wood products, paper, charcoal, or clean petroleum
products may be burned;
         (b)   The nearest local fire department must be notified at least 24
hours prior to any burning where the size of the pile being burned is more than
125 cubic feet;
         (c)   Fires shall not be ignited prior to two hours before the
activity or meeting is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity or meeting;
         (d)   The pile to be burned shall be less than or equal to 1,000 cubic
feet and only one pile may be burned at a time; and
         (e)   No fire shall be used for refuse disposal purposes.
   (C)   For residential burning of clean wood products and paper.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-7-2003)
§ 92.52 OPEN BURNING CONDITIONS.
   All open burning that is allowed must comply with the following conditions.
   (A)   A person who open burns shall extinguish the fire if the fire creates:
      (1)   A pollution problem;
      (2)   A threat to public health;
      (3)   A nuisance; or
      (4)   A fire hazard.
   (B)   Burning may not be done during unfavorable meteorological conditions
such as:
      (1)   High winds defined as greater than 20 mph as given by the local
office of the National Weather Service;
      (2)   Temperature inversions; or
      (3)   Air stagnation or winds less than five mph as given by the local
office of the National Weather Service.
   (C)   All fires must be attended at all times during burning until
completely extinguished.
   (D)   Asbestos containing materials may not be burned.
   (E)   All burning shall comply with federal, state, and local laws, rules,
and ordinances.
   (F)   Burning may not be commenced before sunrise or added to after sunset,
said times as announced by the local office of the National Weather Service,
and must be extinguished by one hour after sunset except for those fires
addressed in §
92.51(B), which fires must not be ignited earlier than two hours prior to the
start of the event and must be extinguished at the completion of the event or
activity.
   (G)   Burning shall be more than 20 feet from any structure owned by the
person performing the burn, a road, or a power line; and 100 feet from any fuel
storage area, pipeline, or structure not owned by the person.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-7-2003)
§ 92.53 SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Open burning may be permitted for the following special situations. All
pertinent and applicable laws, rules, and ordinances must be complied with.
   (A)   Environmentally prescribed burning conducted for purposes of wildlife
habitat maintenance, forestry purposes, natural area management, ecosystem
management, and firefighting or prevention burning. All conditions defined in
chapter 3 shall be met. Only vegetation and clean petroleum products may be
burned.
   (B)   Burning of vegetation by fire departments and firefighters to create
fire breaks for purposes of extinguishing an existing fire.
   (C)   Burning of clean petroleum products for fire extinguisher training.
      (1)   The local Fire Department and local Health Department must be
notified at least 24 hours in advance of the date, time, and location of the
burning.
      (2)   All burning shall take place in a noncombustible container or
enclosure, enclosed on all sides and having a bottom.
      (3)   A total of no more than 14 gallons of fuel may be burned per day.
      (4)   Only one fire may be allowed to burn at a time.
      (5)   All burning shall be conducted in such a manner so as to prevent
any possibility of soil contamination.
   (D)   Open burning, other than mentioned above, may be permitted when a
variance from 326 IAC 4-1 has been approved by the state’s Department of
Environmental Management.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-7-2003)
§ 92.54 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Open burning of any material is prohibited on any real estate
zoned for or used for:
         (a)   Business purposes;
         (b)   Apartment complexes;
         (c)   Condominiums;
         (d)   Mobile home parks; or
         (e)   Multi-family residences containing five or more family units.
      (2)   Unless a variance from 326 IAC 4-1 has been approved and issued by
the state’s Department of Environmental Management.
   (B)   Open burning of any substance other than those defined in this
subchapter is prohibited.
   (C)   Open burning of permitted substances is allowed within the definitions
set forth in this subchapter except that no person shall cause, suffer, allow,
or permit the emission into the atmosphere of any substance or combination of
any substances from the burning of wood products in such quantities as to cause
annoyance or to constitute a nuisance so as to interfere with the health or
well being of any individual in his or her home or place of employment or
recreation or as to interfere with the normal use and enjoyment of any such
place.
   (D)   Burning of leaves that have fallen from trees or shrubs, non-woody
plant matter, weeds, grass clippings, or other material that can be composted
is prohibited.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-7-2003) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates this §
92.02 shall be subject to a fine in the amount of $50 for each offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.21 shall be fined for each offense, in any sum not less than $25 nor more
than $100, and each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to any fine imposed herein, the offender shall be
responsible for all costs of abatement and the recording and administrative
fees as set forth above, and for any legal costs incurred by the town to
collect any such abatement costs, administrative fees, or penalties.
   (D)   Any person found to have violated §§
92.35 through
92.38 may be fined an amount of not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each
day that the public nuisance is found to have remained on the property
following the expiration of any period contained in the notice of abatement.
   (E)   (1)   A person violating a provision of §§
92.50 through
92.54 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $250 as determined by the Town
Council. A person who repeatedly violates §§
92.50 through
92.54 or who willfully violates a provision of §§
92.50 through
92.54 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   Fines shall be assessed and collected as provided by local
ordinance.
      (3)   The above penalties do not preclude the state’s Department of
Environmental Management from seeking legal action for violations(s) of 326 IAC
4-1.
      (4)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible
material which constitutes or contributes to a fire causing air pollution may
not refute liability for violation of §§
92.50 through
92.54 on the basis that said fire was caused or resulted from acts by vandals,
accident, or an act of God or nature.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 1-7-2003; Ord. 2009-01, passed 3-17-2009; Ord. 2015-4,
passed 12-8-2015)
CHAPTER 93: TREES
Section
   
93.01   Purpose and applicability
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Abuse or mutilation of public trees
   
93.04   Planting or treating public trees
   
93.05   Duty to protect and maintain trees
   
93.06   Notice of violation; emergency care
§ 93.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare by providing for the regulation of the planting, maintenance,
and removal of all trees, plants, and shrubs. This chapter applies to all
trees, plants, and shrubs located on public property or right-of-way located
within the town.
(Prior Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARD. A condition or situation creating an unreasonable danger or risk of
loss or injury to person or property.
   NUISANCE. That which unreasonably annoys or disturbs another or the public
at large, or endangers the life or health of another, or gives offense to
senses, violates the laws of decency or obstructs the reasonable and
comfortable use by another of private or public property.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any property, real or personal, that is not public
property.
   PRIVATE TREES. Any tree, bush, or shrub that is not a public tree.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any property, real or personal, owned by the town.
   PUBLIC TREES. Any tree, bush, or shrub owned by the town or located on
property owned by the town or within a right-of-way owned or held by the town.
(Prior Code, § 93.02)
§ 93.03 ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally, recklessly, or negligently damage, cut,
carve, burn, transplant, remove, defoliate, or otherwise disturb any public
tree. No person shall attach any rope, wire, nails, tacks, posters,
advertisements, fliers, notices, or other contrivance to any public tree
without written permission from the Town Council or its designated
representative. No person shall allow any gaseous, liquid, or solid substance,
including, but not limited to, water, fertilizer, urine, acid, chemicals, or
oil, to come into contact with any public tree if the substance may cause
damage or injury to the tree. No person shall start a fire or permit any fire
to burn when the fire or the heat or smoke thereof will damage any portion of
any public tree.
   (B)   No person shall in any way impede the free passage of water, air, and
fertilizer to the roots or foliage of any public tree. No person shall erect
any structure (on public or private property) which obstructs the case or
enjoyment, including visual enjoyment, of the general public or of any
individual person while on public property.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 PLANTING OR TREATING PUBLIC TREES.
   No person shall plant a new tree or shrub on public property without first
obtaining written permission from the Town Council or its designated
representative. Any tree, bush, or shrub planted on public property with the
permission of the Town Council or its designated representative shall be deemed
dedicated for public use, and shall become a public tree governed by this
chapter. Any tree, bush, or shrub planted without written permission of the
Town Council shall be deemed a trespass on public property. The Council shall
have the authority to remove the tree at the expense of the planter, or to
adopt the tree as a “public tree” governed by this chapter. However, no person,
including the person who planted the tree, shall remove any tree after it has
been planted without written permission from the Council or its representative.
No person shall prune a public tree without written permission from the Town
Council or its representative.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 DUTY TO PROTECT AND MAINTAIN TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of any person owning or occupying real
property to properly maintain any trees located on the property. The
maintenance shall include watering, fertilizing, and pruning. No person shall
cause or allow a private tree or any part thereof to become a hazard or a
nuisance to the general public or to any other person.
      (2)   Dead trees or trees with dead limbs or decaying trunks that pose a
risk of falling on public property or right-of-way or the private property of
another person or on any individual person or animal; diseased trees; trees
infested by a pestilence which endangers the growth or health of trees or the
health of any person or animal; any unsightly tree; or any tree which restricts
the visibility of oncoming traffic on any public or private street or drive
shall be presumed to be a “hazard” and/or a “nuisance”.
   (B)   If a person discovers that a tree owned by that person or under that
person’s control is in a condition violative of the preceding division, the
person shall take whatever action necessary to correct the condition and to
remove the hazard and/or nuisance. Any person failing to immediately correct a
known condition that violates this chapter shall pay a fine as determined
hereby.
(Prior Code, § 93.05)
§ 93.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; EMERGENCY CARE.
   (A)   Upon learning that a person is in violation of any section of this
chapter, the Town Council or its representative shall serve written notice upon
that person and demand that person take remedial action to comply with this
chapter within 30 days. Any person fairing to comply with the written notice
shall pay a fine as determined hereby. If a person fails to comply with a
written notice issued pursuant to this section, the Town Council or its
representative shall be authorized to enter onto the person’s property and to
take any reasonable remedial action to correct the hazard or nuisance created
by the person’s tree. If the Town Council is compelled to take remedial action,
the person in violation of this chapter shall be required to reimburse the town
for the cost of the remedial action as determined hereby.
   (B)   The Town Council may take immediate remedial action, without prior
notice, if the Council determines the condition of the private tree in question
creates an emergency situation or poses an immediate threat to health, safety,
or welfare of any person or property. In such situations, the owner of the
private tree in question shall be responsible for reimbursing the town for the
cost of the remedial action, but shall not be fined unless it is apparent that
the person intentionally, recklessly, or negligently caused the emergency
situation or had actual knowledge of the situation and failed to report it to
the town.
(Prior Code, § 93.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Littering prohibited
§ 94.01 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   For the purpose of promoting the comfort of citizens and the cleanliness of
the town and the preventing of obnoxious and offensive odors therein, it shall
be unlawful for any person to throw out, empty or place on any lot, ground, or
street in the town, garbage or any can, bottle, broken glass, or any of the
following:
   (A)   Bulky waste like large appliances;
   (B)   Waste items containing Freon or other Class I or II listed chemicals,
per 40 C.F.R. Part 82;
   (C)   Hazardous waste, defined as “waste that may pose a substantial present
or potential hazard to human health and the environment when improperly
treated, stored, transported, disposed, or otherwise managed” or designated so
either by listing or the characteristic of toxicity, ignitability, corrosivity,
or reactivity; or
   (D)   Refuse or rubbish.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
95.01   Maintenance requirements
   
95.02   Construction and improvement
   
95.03   Construction of curbs
   
95.04   Obstructions in public rights-of-way
   
95.05   Trails exempted from certain owner maintenance requirements
§ 95.01 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All maintenance and repair of public streets, alleys, curbs,
sidewalks, and other public ways shall be with the prior authorization of the
Town Council.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of all owners of property in the town upon which
sidewalk has been laid to keep the sidewalks in good repair at all times and to
remove from them all snow and ice or other obstacles.
   (C)   All persons owning real estate in the town that abuts a paved sidewalk
are required to keep that portion of the land that lies between the sidewalk
and the street in good repair and in a good and clean condition, free of trash
or other unsightly things that mar or detract from the beauty of the street. If
owners are not in possession of the property, then this shall apply to tenants
or others in control of the property.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mark, remove, or
otherwise injure any public way, sidewalk, or curb, either by injuring any
newly laid street, sidewalk, or curb, or by painting, marking, removing, or
otherwise injuring after the surface is dry without the permission of the Town
Council.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to cause, create, or
maintain any obstruction on any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way.
This prohibition includes the use of the public way as a space for the display
of merchandise for sale, or for the display of signs, without the express
written permission from the Town Council.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit on any public way any
material that may injure the way, the environment, or any person traveling upon
the way.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to construct or
maintain any opening or stairway in any public way without written permission
from Town Council. All lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a
strong cover or railing approved by the Town Council or designated agent.
   (H)   Any person found in violation of this section shall be given one
written notice to correct the unlawful condition with a reasonable time for the
correction. If correction is not made within the stated reasonable time, the
Town Council may order the correction made by others, and the cost of the
correction shall be charged to the property owner or other found to have caused
the violation.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.02 CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT.
   Whenever the improvement of any area of the town shall be deemed necessary
by the Town Council, a resolution stating the nature and location of the
desired improvement shall be declared and either posted or published in
accordance with state law. If the owners of a majority of the designated
improvement area do not protest within 20 days after the last day of posting or
publication, by filing with the Clerk- Treasurer a written protest against such
improvement, signed by all of the protesting owners, contracts for the work to
be done shall be entered into and assessments and liens shall be fixed in
accordance with state law. If a proper protest is filed in a timely manner, the
matter shall be determined by the Town Council, provided that at least ten
days’ written notice of the meeting is given in a newspaper of general
circulation serving the town.
(Prior Code, § 95.02)
§ 95.03 CONSTRUCTION OF CURBS.
   Any private individual or business may construct, repair, or lay pavement
for a curb or sidewalk for a public way by obtaining permission in writing from
the Town Council, and by following the Council’s or its agent’s instructions as
to the form and material to be used. Any deviation from the form or material
shall constitute a violation of this section. The work shall not impede the
public way for any unreasonable length of time. Final clearance of the
construction or repair must be made by either the Town Council, or its
designated representative, in writing. Materials and obstructions may not be
placed within 15 feet of any fire hydrants, or in a way as to block
firefighting equipment, or in any way interfere with public utilities, without
prior written permission from the Fire Department, utility company, and Town
Council. The cost of correction of improper repair or construction work shall
be the responsibility of the person or business responsible for the work.
(Prior Code, § 95.03)
§ 95.04 OBSTRUCTIONS IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   General prohibition of items in rights-of-way.
      (1)   No person or entity shall obstruct or cause to be obstructed any
street, alley or sidewalk within the town. This does not prohibit the
reasonable and necessary use of parts of the streets or sidewalks for travel.
No person or entity shall obstruct any gutter or drain in any street.
      (2)   No person or entity shall place or store personal property of any
nature in any right-of-way in the town without the written authorization by the
Town Council, but for the following exceptions:
         (a)   Properly registered and operable motor vehicles, which are
lawfully parked along a public road in compliance with other town ordinances.
Automobiles shall not be parked in a manner which blocks or obstructs a
sidewalk in a public right-of-way;
         (b)   Solid waste disposal bins which are placed along the road on
garbage collection days or other bulk waste items being placed for disposal so
long as the bin or bulk item is placed in compliance with Chapter 50 of this
Code of ordinances or any other applicable town ordinance;
         (c)   Mail boxes approved by the United States Postal Service;
         (d)   Lawnmowers or other tools or equipment used to maintain the
grass and sidewalks in the right-of-way, but only during the period of such
use. Such items must be removed from the right-of- way upon cessation of work;
         (e)   Construction material, landscaping material, and mulch delivered
to the front of or the rear of buildings in process of correctional repair,
construction or landscaping project for a reasonable amount of time necessary
to complete the construction or landscaping project.
   (B)   Prohibition of grass, leaves and clippings on roadways or sidewalks.
No person or entity shall blow, rake, or in any way place grass, leaves, or
other lawn clippings on any road or sidewalk located in a right-of-way.
Landowners are allowed to store leaves in the right of way on weeks during
which leaves are being collected by the town, but must not be allowed to
obstruct a road or sidewalk.
   (C)   Duty to remove snow and ice from sidewalks.
      (1)   The occupant, or the owner where there is no occupant, of the
property adjoining any public sidewalk shall keep the sidewalk free of debris,
snow, ice and any foreign matter. Snow shall be removed within 12 hours after
it has ceased falling. Where snow or ice cannot be readily removed, and
presents a slippery surface, sand shall be spread on it.
      (2)   No person or entity shall permit to be deposited in any street or
thoroughfare, snow or other obstruction from the driveway, sidewalks, or
parking lots of said person's property.
   (D)   Prohibition of drain tiles in rights-of-way. No person or entity shall
place a storm water drain tile or other drainage system in a right-of-way
except for persons or entities who have a signed license agreement approved by
the Storm Water Board to connect a private drain to a town storm water pipe. No
person or entity shall allow a drain tile to discharge water directly onto a
roadway or sidewalk, or allow accumulated surface water to flow over a road or
walkway
   (E)   Penalty and enforcement.
      (1)   Any person or entity violating this section shall be subject to a
fine up to $200 for each offense, plus court costs and attorney fees incurred
by the town in prosecuting the violation.
      (2)   When any street, alley or sidewalk is obstructed so as to impede or
interfere with the free use thereof, or when any public gutter or drain located
in a right-of-way is obstructed, the Allen County Sheriff or the Town Manager
or an agent of the Town Manager or Sheriff may remove such obstruction to some
suitable place.
      (3)   In addition to any fine or attorneys' fees, the cost of the removal
storage of any obstructions and the cost of storage of any obstructing property
may be recovered from the person or entity causing the obstruction if the town
gave such person or entity reasonable prior notice to remove the obstruction,
or if, due to an emergency situation, the obstruction had to be removed by the
town without prior notice to the responsible party.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 95.05 TRAILS EXEMPTED FROM CERTAIN OWNER MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the foregoing requirements of this
Chapter 95, §§
95.01(B) and
95.04(C)(1) do not apply to sidewalks which are designated as trails in
division (B).
   (B)   The following sidewalks are hereby designated as trails for the
purpose of
Chapter 95:
      (1)   As of December 6, 2022, the town has developed plans for
construction of part of the Cedar Creek Parks Trail. Pursuant to those plans,
the town will be constructing a trail, which consists of a combination of new
construction and the replacement of existing sidewalks, that will run on the
east side of Halter Road between Hursh Road and Hosler Road and on the south
side of Hosler Road from Halter Road to State Route 1. Upon the completion and
acceptance of this project by the town, the project constitutes a trail for the
purposes of
Chapter 95.
(Ord. 2022-18, passed 12-20-2022)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Administration
   
96.03   Removal of park property; damage
   
96.04   Littering
   
96.05   Intoxicants
   
96.06   Solicitors
   
96.07   Games of chance
   
96.08   Gatherings and meetings; disturbances
   
96.09   Open fires
   
96.10   Personal property; risks
   
96.11   Minors; smoking prohibited
   
96.12   Children accompanied by parent
   
96.13   Animals
   
96.14   Vehicles
   
96.15   Fishing limitations
Grabill Road Recreational Path
   
96.25   Recreational path defined
   
96.26   Use of path
   
96.27   Motorized vehicles prohibited
   
96.28   Exception for ADA compliance
   
96.29   Riding mounts and animals used for transportation prohibited
   
96.30   Pets
   
96.31   Incorporation of state law
   
96.32   Non-motorized vehicles must be operated in a safe manner
   
96.33   Placement of appropriate signs
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see §§
32.15 through
32.33
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The rules and regulations set forth in this subchapter are hereby
established for the management and protection of the park and public grounds of
the town and for the protection of the persons lawfully entitled to use same.
(Prior Code, § 96.01)
§ 96.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Park Advisory Board shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
The Park Advisory Board shall have the authority to develop policies
controlling the use of the park, have them approved by the Town Council and
implement them.
   (B)   The Park Advisory Board, upon approval of the Town Council on a case-
by-case basis, shall have the authority to develop and implement policies
controlling the possession and use of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 96.02)
§ 96.03 REMOVAL OF PARK PROPERTY; DAMAGE.
   (A)   (1)   Nothing shall be removed from park premises without prior
written permission from a member of the Park Advisory Board.
      (2)   No equipment, except picnic tables, shall be removed or changed
from their place without the permission to do so by the Park Advisory Board.
      (3)   All equipment must be returned to its original position after
using.
   (B)   No person shall damage or deface trees, shrubs, plants, or turf or any
of the buildings, fences, benches, or other structures within the park.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 LITTERING.
   No person shall throw stones, rubbish, or other articles onto park property.
(Prior Code, § 96.04) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 INTOXICANTS.
   No intoxicants of any kind shall be brought into the park area, consumed,
sold, or given away on the premises of the park.
(Prior Code, § 96.05) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 SOLICITORS.
   Every person who vends, sells, or offers for sale from a vehicle, tent, or
table, food or refreshments in or upon park property shall obtain prior written
permission from the Park Advisory Board.
(Prior Code, § 96.06) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 GAMES OF CHANCE.
   No person shall be allowed to beg or play any game of chance on park
property unless prior written Park Advisory Board approval is obtained.
(Prior Code, § 96.07) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 GATHERINGS AND MEETINGS; DISTURBANCES.
   (A)   No gathering or meeting of any kind assembled through advertisement
shall be permitted on park property without prior written Park Advisory Board
approval.
   (B)   No person shall disturb any picnic in any park or intrude themselves
on it without the consent of those composing it.
(Prior Code, § 96.08) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 OPEN FIRES.
   Open fires, except in fireplaces or charcoal grills, shall not be permitted.
Portable charcoal grills are not permitted to be used inside pavilions or under
roofs thereof without the Park Advisory Board approval.
(Prior Code, § 96.09) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 PERSONAL PROPERTY; RISKS.
   Personal property or equipment brought into the park area shall be at the
owner’s risk.
(Prior Code, § 96.10)
§ 96.11 MINORS; SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   Minors are not permitted to smoke on park property.
(Prior Code, § 96.11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 CHILDREN ACCOMPANIED BY PARENT.
   Preschool age children are not permitted on park grounds unless accompanied
by a responsible child or an adult.
(Prior Code, § 96.12) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13 ANIMALS.
   Dogs are not allowed on park property without a leash.
(Prior Code, § 96.13) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.14 VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on park property without the prior
permission of the Park Advisory Board.
(Prior Code, § 96.14) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.15 FISHING LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Fishing shall be prohibited in any pond within any park.
   (B)   Fishing shall be prohibited at any location where a sign posted by a
duly authorized park official indicates that fishing is prohibited.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 3-15-2022)
GRABILL ROAD RECREATIONAL PATH
§ 96.25 RECREATIONAL PATH DEFINED.
   The GRABILL ROAD RECREATIONAL PATH, for purposes of this subchapter, is
defined to mean the eight-foot sidewalk constructed along Grabill Road from the
bridge to the eastern boundary of the town.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 96.26 USE OF PATH.
   Within the town, the Grabill Road Recreational Path (commonly known as the
Grabill Road sidewalk) shall be reserved exclusively for use by pedestrians,
bicycles, and other non-motorized vehicles, except as otherwise provided in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 96.27 MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   The use of motorized vehicles of any type (except as allowed below for ADA
compliance), including, but not limited to, mopeds, motorized bikes, go carts,
snowmobiles, motorcycle, and golf carts, is prohibited on the Grabill Road
Recreational Path.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 10-18-2005) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.28 EXCEPTION FOR ADA COMPLIANCE.
   The sole exception to the ban on motorized vehicles on the bike path is for
persons with a disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., provided that such person complies with the following
strictures.
   (A)   Disabled individuals must provide a doctor’s certification of the need
for a motorized device to allow for mobility or proof of registration from the
state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles for a handicapped license plate.
   (B)   Upon production of such doctor’s certification or BMV handicapped
registration, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit imprinted with the
seal of the town.
   (C)   Such person shall affix the permit on the motorized device in a
location where the permit shall be readily visible from outside the device.
   (D)   When operating the motorized device on the Grabill Road Recreational
Path, the disabled person shall operate the device in a safe and reasonable
manner, shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrian and bicycle traffic on the
path, shall not operate his or her motorized device into any residential yard
or the unpaved right-of-way, but shall remain on the paved path.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 96.29 RIDING MOUNTS AND ANIMALS USED FOR TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   The use of mounts or other riding animals and the use of animals for
transportation, including drawn buggies, carts, and wagons, is prohibited on
the Grabill Road Recreational Path within the town.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 10-18-2005) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.30 PETS.
   Persons may walk their pets on the recreational path provided that the pets
are kept on a leash. Pet owners are responsible for controlling their pets at
all times, and shall not allow their pets to touch other persons or animals on
the path without the consent of such other person or animal owner. Animals
which are prone to barking, growling, or otherwise threatening unknown people
shall not be permitted on the path. Pet owners are responsible for cleaning up
any feces left by their animals.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 96.31 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   The town hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the provisions of I.C.
9-21-11-1 et seq. as if fully set forth herein pertaining to the use of
bicycles along the Grabill Road Recreational Path. It shall be a violation of
this subchapter to operate a bicycle on the Grabill Road Recreational Path in
any manner inconsistent with the provisions of I.C. 9-21-11-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 10-18-2005) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.32 NON-MOTORIZED VEHICLES MUST BE OPERATED IN A SAFE MANNER.
   Non-motorized vehicles, including bicycles, tri-cycles, unicycles, skate-
boards, roller blades, roller skates, scooters, spring-boards or other device
or mechanism used for transportation, shall be operated or used only in a safe
and reasonable manner. Use of any such device or vehicle in an unsafe manner or
in any manner that creates an unreasonable risk of causing damage to person
(including the person operating the device or vehicle) or property shall
constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 10-18-2005) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.33 PLACEMENT OF APPROPRIATE SIGNS.
   No person shall be subject to any fine pursuant to §
96.31, until a proper traffic-control device or sign has been erected on the
Grabill Road Recreational Path. Any such sign shall comply with the
requirements of the state’s Uniform Traffic Control Devices Manual, if
applicable.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
96.25 through
96.33 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $100 for each violation.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 10-18-2005)
CHAPTER 97: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
97.01   Policy statement
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Unlawful practice
   
97.04   Discrimination in sale or rental of housing
   
97.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
97.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
97.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
97.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
97.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
97.10   Exemptions
   
97.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 97.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4, et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
97.04,
97.05,
97.06,
97.07,
97.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined under FAMILIAL STATUS.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 97.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of §§
97.08 and
97.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and §
97.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C.22-9.5-
3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
97.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
97.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 97.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
97.03 and except as exempted by §§
97.03(B) and
97.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person;
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person;
   (H)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1 ) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
(H)(3) (C)(3.) above.
   (J)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 97.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 97.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 97.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
97.03,
97.04,
97.05 or
97.06.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 97.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) above, or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 97.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 57 4.3 the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 97.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program) or;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 97.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town or the chief elected official's
designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-4-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOL
      
111.   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOL
Section
   
110.01   Liquor retail permits
§ 110.01 LIQUOR RETAIL PERMITS.
   As authorized by I.C. 7.1-3-9-3, liquor retail permits may be issued to
applicants in respect to premises located within the boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2012-8, passed 4-10-2012)
CHAPTER 111: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose and legislative intent
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Approvals required for telecommunications facilities and support
structures
   
111.04   General standards and design requirements
   
111.05   Miscellaneous provisions
   
111.06   Telecommunications facilities and support structures in existence on
the date of adoption of this chapter
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this wireless telecommunications chapter is to ensure
that residents, public safety operations and businesses in the town have
reliable access to wireless telecommunications networks and state of the art
communications services while also ensuring that this objective is achieved in
a fashion that preserves the intrinsic aesthetic character of the community and
is accomplished according to the town's zoning, planning, and design standards.
The Telecommunications Act of 1996 preserved, with certain limitations, local
government land use and zoning authority concerning the placement, construction
and modification of wireless telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   To accomplish the above stated objectives and to ensure that the
placement, construction or modification of wireless telecommunications
facilities complies with all applicable federal laws and is consistent with the
town's land use policies, the town adopts this single, comprehensive, wireless
telecommunications chapter. No provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
siting of distributed antenna systems (DAS) or wireless facilities located
within and intended to provide wireless coverage within a structure.
   (C)   This chapter establishes parameters for the siting of wireless
telecommunications facilities. By enacting this chapter, it is the town's
intent to:
      (1)   Ensure the town has sufficient wireless infrastructure to support
its public safety communications throughout the town;
      (2)   Ensure access to reliable wireless communications services
throughout all areas of the town's jurisdiction;
      (3)   Encourage the use of existing structures for the collocation of
telecommunications facilities. A core policy goal of this chapter is to
encourage co-location of wireless facilities on existing structures.
      (4)   Encourage the location of support structures, to the extent
possible, in areas where any potential adverse impacts on the community will be
minimized;
      (5)   Facilitate the responsible deployment of telecommunications
facilities in residential areas to ensure comprehensive wireless services
across town;
      (6)   Minimize the potential adverse effects associated with the
construction of monopoles, towers and telecommunications facilities through the
implementation of reasonable design, landscaping, and construction practices;
      (7)   Ensure public health, safety, welfare, and convenience;
      (8)   To amend the town zoning ordinance in light of federal legislative
changes to zoning authority under the 1996 Telecommunications Act.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Occurs when an owner of a support structure intends to permanently
and completely cease all business activity associated therewith.
   ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT. Any equipment serving or being used in conjunction with
a telecommunications facility or support structure. This equipment includes,
but is not limited to antenna, utility or transmission equipment, power
supplies, generators, batteries, cables, equipment buildings, cabinets and
storage sheds, shelters or other structures.
   ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL. Zoning approval that the Zoning Administrator or
designee is authorized to grant after administrative review, issued in the form
of an improvement location permit ("ILP").
   ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW. Process of evaluation of an application by the Zoning
Administrator or designee. Except as otherwise specified in this chapter, this
process is the same process as issuing an improvement location permit ("ILP")
as set forth in the Zoning Code. In addition to other material requested for an
ILP, the Zoning Administrator may request such other documentation as is
necessary to establish that the standards set forth in this chapter have been
met prior to granting administrative approval.
   ANTENNA. Any structure or device used to collect or radiate electromagnetic
waves for the provision of services including, but not limited to, cellular,
paging, personal communications services (PCS) and microwave communications.
Such structures and devices include, but are not limited to, directional
antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes and satellite dishes, and
omnidirectional antennas, such as whips. This definition does not apply to
broadcast antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use, or satellite
dishes designed for residential or household purposes.
   CARRIER ON WHEELS OR CELL ON WHEELS ("COW"). A portable self-contained
telecommunications facility that can be moved to a location and set up to
provide wireless services on a temporary or emergency basis. A COW is normally
vehicle-mounted and contains a telescoping boom as the antenna support
structure.
   COLLOCATION. The act of siting telecommunications facilities on an existing
structure without the need to construct a new support structure and without a
substantial increase in the size of the existing structure.
   COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A structure on which one or more antenna
will be located that is intended for transmitting and/or receiving radio,
television, telephone, wireless or microwave communications for an FCC licensed
carrier, excluding those used exclusively for private radio and television
reception and private citizen's bands, amateur radio and other similar private/
residential communications.
   CONCEALED TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Any telecommunications facility that
is integrated as an architectural feature of an existing structure or any new
support structure designed so that the purpose of the facility or support
structure for providing wireless services is not readily apparent to a casual
observer.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE. Previously erected support structure or any other
structure, including but not limited to, buildings and water tanks, to which
telecommunications facilities can be attached.
   MAJOR MODIFICATIONS. Improvements to existing telecommunications facilities
or support structures that result in a substantial increase to the existing
structure. Collocation of new telecommunications facilities to an existing
support structure without replacement of the structure shall not constitute a
major modification unless such collocation would result in a substantial
increase to an existing structure.
   MINOR MODIFICATIONS. Improvements to existing structures that result in some
material change to the facility or support structure but of a level, quality or
intensity that is less than a substantial increase. MINOR MODIFICATIONS include
the replacement of the structure with a structure of the same type, height,
size, location and general appearance. Any replacement structure will be
subject to the same conditions and restrictions that were applied to approval
for the original structure.
   MONOPOLE. A single, freestanding pole-type structure supporting one or more
antenna.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE. Ensuring that telecommunications facilities and
support structures are kept in good operating condition. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE
includes inspections, testing and modifications that maintain functional
capacity, aesthetic and structural integrity; for example, the strengthening of
a support structure's foundation or of the support structure itself. ORDINARY
MAINTENANCE includes replacing antennas of a similar size, weight, shape and
color and accessory equipment within an existing telecommunications facility
and relocating the antennas of approved telecommunications facilities to
different height levels on an existing monopole or tower upon which they are
currently located. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE does not include minor and major
modifications unless such maintenance work would result in a substantial
increase to an existing structure.
   REPLACEMENT. Constructing a new support structure of proportions and of
equal height or such other height that would not constitute a substantial
increase to a pre-existing support structure in order to support a
telecommunications facility or to accommodate collocation and removing the pre-
existing support structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL INCREASE. Occurs when:
      (1)   The mounting of the proposed antenna or other accessory equipment
on an existing structure would increase the existing height of the existing
structure by more than 10%; or
      (2)   The mounting of the proposed antenna or other accessory equipment
would involve the installation of more than the standard number of new
equipment cabinets for the technology involved, as documented by a qualified
and licensed Indiana professional engineer, not to exceed four, or more than
one new equipment shelter; or
      (3)   The mounting of the proposed antenna or other accessory equipment
would involve adding an appmienance to the body of the existing structure that
would protrude from the edge of the existing structure more than 15 feet; or
      (4)   The mounting of the proposed antenna or accessory equipment would
involve excavation outside the current existing structure site, defined as the
current boundaries of the leased or owned property surrounding the existing
structure and any access or utility easements currently related to the site.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE(S). A structure designed to support telecommunications
facilities including, but not limited to, monopoles, towers, and other
freestanding self-supporting structures.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY(IES). Any unmanned facility established for the
purpose of providing wireless transmission of voice, data, images or other
information including, but not limited to, cellular telephone service, personal
communications service (PCS), and paging service. A TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY
can consist of one or more antennas and accessory equipment or one base
station.
   TOWER. A lattice-type structure, guyed or freestanding, that suppmis one or
more antennas.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 111.03 APPROVALS REQUIRED FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES AND SUPPORT
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Authorized zoning districts. Commercial communications towers, and
telecommunications facilities shall be allowed as a special exception in the
following Zoning Districts: C-1, C-2 and AG.
   (B)   Permitted without administrative review. The following activities are
permitted without administrative review and administrative authorization and
without a hearing:
      (1)   Ordinary maintenance of an existing permitted structure or lawfully
nonconforming structure;
      (2)   The use of COWs needed to continue providing wireless transmission
of voice, data, images or other information including, but not limited to,
cellular telephone service, personal communications service (PCS), and paging
services during a period of emergency following the declaration of an emergency
or disaster by the town, Allen County, the State of Indiana, or the United
States government. In the event of no declared emergency, or following the end
of a state of emergency, use of a COW requires an ILP issued after
administrative review and administrative approval in accordance with the
standards set forth in this chapter;
      (3)   Antennas used by residential households solely for broadcast radio
and television reception;
      (4)   Satellite antennas used solely for residential or household
purposes.
   (C)   Administrative review.
      (1)   The following activities may be approved by the Zoning
Administrator or designee by issuance of an improvement location permit after
administrative review and administrative approval in accordance with the
standards set forth in this chapter:
         (a)   Telecommunications facilities located on existing structures.
Telecommunications facilities are permitted in all C-1, C-2 or AG zoning
districts when located on any existing structure subject to administrative
review and administrative approval in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter. Antennas and accessory equipment may exceed the maximum building
height limitations by up to 10% within a zoning district, provided they do not
constitute a substantial increase or major modification.
         (b)   Collocations may be approved for any existing structure in any
C-1, C-2 or AG zoning district following administrative review and
administrative approval in accordance with the standards set forth in this
chapter, provided that the collocation does not constitute a substantial
increase.
         (c)   The use of COWs, not otherwise exempt, shall be permitted in any
C-1, C-2 or AG zoning district after administrative review and administrative
approval in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter, for up to
a maximum period of 60 days.
         (d)   Minor modifications are permitted to an existing structure
subject to administrative review and administrative approval in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified herein, all telecommunications
facilities and support structures permitted by administrative approval are
subject to the applicable general standards and design requirements of this
chapter and the Zoning Code. A certificate of compliance ("C of C") shall be
obtained following all antennae locations and collocations and all minor
modifications.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator may authorize the application to be
reviewed by a third-party consultant if the Zoning Administrator or its
designee reasonably determines that there is a need to retain a third-party
consultant in order to review technical aspects of the applicant's application.
The cost of the third-party consultant review, shall be borne by the applicant,
but shall not exceed $5,000 per application (including batched applications).
The applicant shall submit the fee/deposit at the Office of the Zoning
Administrator.
   (D)   Special exceptions. Telecommunications facilities and support
structures not permitted by administrative approval shall be permitted in any
C-1, C-2 or AG zoning district upon the granting of a special exception permit
from the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with the standards set forth in
this chapter and the Zoning Code.
      (1)   In addition to meeting the requirements set forth in Article 14,
§14.11 of the Zoning Code, the Board shall find the following as part of its
approval of special exceptions for any telecommunications facilities or support
structures:
         (a)   The proposed telecommunications facility or support structure is
necessary to serve either:
            1.   New providers of service; or
            2.   Documented service gaps in the immediate area; and
         (b)   No new telecommunication facility or support structure for a
commercial wireless communications service shall be approved unless the Board
of Zoning Appeals finds the telecommunication equipment planned for the
facility or structure cannot be accommodated on an available, existing
facility, structure or building within a two-mile radius of the proposed tower
due to one or more of the following reasons:
            1.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the available, existing facility, structure or buildings, as documented by a
qualified and licensed Indiana professional engineer, and the existing
facility, structure or building cannot be reinforced, modified or replaced to
accommodate planned or equivalent equipment at a reasonable cost.
            2.   The planned equipment would cause interference, materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the existing
facility, structure or building, as documented by a qualified and licensed
Indiana professional engineer, and the interference cannot be prevented at a
reasonable cost.
            3.   Available, existing telecommunications facilities, support
structures and buildings within the two-mile radius cannot accommodate the
planned equipment at a height necessary to function reasonably as documented by
a qualified and licensed Indiana professional engineer.
            4.   Other unforeseen technical reasons, as opposed to economic,
that make it unfeasible to locate the planned telecommunication equipment upon
an existing or approved facility, structure or building as documented by a
qualified and licensed Indiana professional engineer.
            5.   The Zoning Administrator may authorize the application to be
reviewed by a third-party consultant if the Zoning Administrator or its
designee reasonably determines that there is a need to retain a third-party
consultant in order to review technical aspects of the applicant's application.
The cost of the third-party consultant review, shall be born by the applicant,
but shall not exceed $5,000
per application (including batched applications). The applicant shall submit
the fee/deposit at the Office of the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   As a condition of approval of all special exceptions for any
support structure, the Board shall require that the applicant and the owner of
the property on which the Structure shall be located shall sign a covenant
which shall be recorded in the Allen County Recorders Office and shall run with
the land, which shall state that the owner of the structure and land owner
shall be responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of the structure and shall
remove the structure if it becomes abandoned. A structure that is not used for
12 consecutive months shall be presumed to be abandoned.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 111.04 GENERAL STANDARDS AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Design.
      (1)   Support structures shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   Shall be designed to accommodate a minimum number of
collocations based upon their height:
            1.   Support structures 60 to 100 feet shall support at least two
telecommunications providers;
            2.   Support structures from 100 to 150 feet shall support at least
three telecommunications providers;
            3.   Support structures greater than 150 feet in height shall
support at least four telecommunications carriers.
         (b)   The compound area surrounding the support structure must be of
sufficient size to accommodate accessory equipment for the appropriate number
of telecommunications providers in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Concealed telecommunications facilities shall be designed to
accommodate the collocation of other antennas whenever economically and
technically feasible.
      (3)   Upon request of the applicant, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
waive the requirement that new support structures accommodate the collocation
of other service providers if it finds that collocation at the site is not
essential to the public interest, or that the construction of a shorter support
structure with fewer antennas will promote community compatibility.
   (B) Setbacks.
      (1)   Property lines. Unless otherwise stated herein, support structures
shall be set back from all property lines a distance equal to 75 % of its
height measured from the base of the structure to its highest point.
      (2)   Residential dwellings. Unless otherwise stated herein, monopoles,
towers and other support structures shall be set back from all off-site
residential dwellings by a distance equal to 110% the height of the structure.
      (3)   There shall be no setback requirement from structures located on
the same parcel as the proposed structure.
      (4)   Unless otherwise stated herein, all accessory equipment shall be
set back from all property lines in accordance with the minimum setback
requirements in the underlying zoning district. Accessory equipment associated
with an existing or replacement utility pole which do not meet the existing
setback requirement, but which are lawfully non-conforming, may be replaced in
the same location without meeting setback requirements provided that they do
not constitute a substantial increase or major modification.
      (5)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority to vary any
required setback upon the request of the applicant if:
         (a)   Applicant provides a letter stamped by a certified structural
engineer documenting that the proposed structure's fall zone is less than the
actual height of the structure;
         (b)   The telecommunications facility or support structure is
consistent with the purposes and intent of this chapter;
         (c)   The request otherwise meets the criteria for development
standards variances established by I.C. 36-7-4-918.5 and the Zoning Code.
   (C)   Height. A support structure shall not exceed 199 feet in height from
the base of the structure to the top of the highest point.
   (D)   Aesthetics.
      (1)   Lighting and marking. Telecommunications facilities or support
structures shall not be lighted or marked unless required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
      (2)   Signage. Signs located at the telecommunications facility shall be
limited to ownership and contact information, FCC antenna registration number
(if required by the FCC or federal or state regulatory agency) and any other
information as required by government regulation. Commercial advertising is
strictly prohibited.
      (3)   Landscaping. In all districts, the Board of Zoning Appeals or
Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to impose reasonable landscaping
requirements surrounding the accessory equipment. Required landscaping shall be
consistent with surrounding vegetation and shall be maintained by the facility
owner. The Board or Zoning Administrator may choose to not require landscaping
for sites that are not visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent
property or in instances where in the judgment of the Board or Zoning
Administrator, landscaping is not appropriate or necessary.
   (E)   Accessory equipment, including any buildings, cabinets or shelters,
shall be used only to house equipment and other supplies in support of the
operation of the telecommunication facility or support structure. Any equipment
not used in direct support of such operation shall not be stored on the site.
The accessory equipment must conform to the setback standards of the applicable
zone. In the situation of stacked equipment buildings, additional screening/
landscaping measures may be required by the Board or Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 111.05 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Fencing. Ground mounted accessory equipment and support structures
shall be secured and enclosed with a fence not less than eight feet in height.
   (B)   Abandonment and removal. If a support structure is abandoned, and it
remains abandoned for a period in excess of 12 consecutive months, the town may
require that such support structure be removed only after first providing
written notice to the owner of the support structure (or to the owner of the
property if the owner of the support structure can no longer be identified or
reached) and giving the owner the opportunity to take such action as may be
necessary to rebut the presumption that the support structure is abandoned
within 30 days of receipt of said written notice. In the event the owner of the
support structure fails to rebut the presumption that the support structure is
abandoned within the 30-day period, the owner of the support structure shall be
required to remove the same within six months thereafter. Failure by the owner
to remove the structure within the six-month deadline, shall entitle the town
to seek a court order authorizing the town to remove the structure and to
recover its costs and attorney's fees for obtaining the court order and
removing the support structure.
   (C)   Multiple uses on a single parcel or lot. Telecommunications facilities
and support structures may be located on a parcel containing another principal
use on the same site or may be the principal use itself.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 111.06 TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES AND SUPPORT STRUCTURES IN EXISTENCE ON
THE DATE OF ADOPTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Telecommunications facilities and support structures that were legally
permitted on or before the date this chapter was enacted shall be considered a
permitted and lawfully non-conforming use pursuant to the Zoning Code.
   (B)   Non-conforming support structures.
      (1)   Non-conforming support structure. Ordinary maintenance may be
performed on a non-conforming support structure or telecommunications facility.
      (2)   Collocation and/or minor modifications of telecommunications
facilities on an existing non-conforming support structure shall not be
construed as an expansion, enlargement or increase in intensity of a non-
conforming structure and/or use and shall be permitted through the
administrative approval process defined above in §
111.03.
      (3)   Major modifications may be made to non-conforming support
structures utilizing the special use exception process defined in § 111.03(C).
A variance for height or setback requirements only if the proposed modification
will reduce the already existing lawfully non-conforming set-back, or increase
the already existing lawfully non-conforming height.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 6-2-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   FLOOD PREVENTION
      
151.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: FLOOD PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Statutory authorization
   
150.02   Findings of fact
   
150.03   Statement of purpose
   
150.04   Objectives
   
150.05   Definitions
   
150.06   Application
   
150.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
150.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
150.09   Compliance
   
150.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
150.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
150.12   Interpretation
   
150.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
150.25   Designation of Administrator
   
150.26   Permit procedures
   
150.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
150.40   General standards
   
150.41   Specific standards
   
150.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
150.43   Critical facility
   
150.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
150.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
150.46   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
Variance Procedures
   
150.60   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
150.61   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
150.62   Variance procedures
   
150.63   Conditions for variances
   
150.64   Variance notification
   
150.65   Historic structure
   
150.66   Special conditions
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 and I.C. 14-28-4 granted the power
to local government units to control land use within their jurisdictions.
Therefore, the Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 through 4131.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snow melt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES, flood
waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR, and Zone A99 on a FIRM or FHBM. The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   ZONE AE and A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (4)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the floodplain administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use, or store hazardous materials
or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, or columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD).
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ORDINANCE, and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP (AS RELATED TO VARIANCES OF THIS CHAPTER). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Town
Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars;
      (5)   The top of the first floor of a structure constructed with a crawl
space, provided that the lowest point of the interior grade is at or above the
BFE and construction meets requirements of division (6)(a) below; or
      (6)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total net area of one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned
by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel, and the
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA; the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures; and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM OF 1929 (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   ONE PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the initial
FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or health of an
entire community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or
unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any
navigable lake, river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the town’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources and FEMA. The
regulatory flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
150.07. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316. A section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, being
44 C.F.R. §§ 73.1 through § 73.4, as amended, which states that no new flood
insurance coverage shall be provided for any property that the Administrator
finds has been declared by a duly constituted state or local zoning authority
or other authorized public body to be in violation of state or local laws,
regulations, or ordinances that intended to discourage or otherwise restrict
land development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdictions of
the town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town
are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the Allen
County and Incorporated Areas dated August 3, 2009, as well as any future
updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated
Allen County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town or
that may be annexed into the town are generally identified as such on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map prepared for Allen County and Incorporated Areas by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated August 3, 2009, as well as any
future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FHBM
or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means the first placement or permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footing, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation for placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88), or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (other datum where specified), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B Zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C Zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B AND C.)
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.06 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (B)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party
submitting the detailed engineering study needs to replace existing data with
better data and submit it to the state’s Department of Natural Resources for
review and approval.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs of the town shall be delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in
the Flood Insurance Study of Allen County and Incorporated Areas dated August
3, 2009 and the corresponding flood insurance rate map dated August 3, 2009, as
well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for
each of the SFHAs delineated as an A Zone on the FIRM of the town shall be
according to the best data available as provided by the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
      (3)   For the SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated areas of the county
that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town or that may be
annexed into the town:
         (a)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
studied streams shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
county flood insurance study dated August 3, 2009 and the corresponding FIRM
dated August 3, 2009, as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date;
and
         (b)   If the SFHA is delineated as Zone A on the county flood
insurance rate map, the
regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits shall be according to
the best data available as provided by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the
SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA and the
floodplain regulations will not be applied. The property owner should be
advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the town, the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
or the state, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.25 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council hereby appoints the Zoning Administrator to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question: existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any nonresidential
structure will be floodproofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or related as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor or
floodproofing, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of
the lowest floor or floodproofed elevation, as built. Said certification shall
be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized
for a particular structure, said certification shall be prepared by or under
the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holders’ risk. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest
floor and floodproofing elevation survey data submitted.) The permit holder
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
150.44 and
150.46(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (6)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map amendment
(LOMA), letters of map revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents, and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter;
      (7)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map revision (LOMR) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (8)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (9)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
150.26;
      (10)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
150.26;
      (11)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (12)   Stop work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to
his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the
conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (13)   Revocation of permits:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 150.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs the following provisions are required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvement to a structure
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said nonconformity is not further extended or replaced; and
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure:
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
immediate watershed in which the authorized fill or structure is located;
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain, provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
immediate watershed in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will
be accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding
when not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled;
      (3)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain;
      (4)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement; and
      (5)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work. Once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)    Application of regulations. In addition to the requirements of §
150.40, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure:
         (a)   Where the cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds
50% of the value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
and
         (b)   With a previous addition or improvement constructed since the
community’s first floodplain ordinance.
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure (or
manufactured) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation). Structures located in
all A Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of being elevated if done in accordance
with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator as set forth in §
150.27(B)(10).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall be designed to preclude finished living
space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (2)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade);
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection grade must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to
the structure’s originally approved design shall be presented as a condition of
issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the Standard
Proctor Test method.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the FPG.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor, including basements, shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for structures constructed with a crawl space. A residential
or nonresidential structure may be constructed with a crawl space located below
the flood protection grade, provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection grade shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. There shall be a minimum of two openings having
a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area. The bottom of the openings shall be no more than one foot above
grade;
      (3)   The interior grade of the crawl space must be at or above the base
flood elevation;
      (4)   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four
feet at any point;
      (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event;
      (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection grade must be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
      (7)   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection grade.
   (G)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site:
         (a)   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision that has not been substantially damaged by a flood.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.43 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into flood waters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.44 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
150.07, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential.
      (2)   If the site is in an identified floodway, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the state’s Department of
Natural Resources and apply for a permit for construction in a floodway. Under
the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for construction in a floodway from
the state’s Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance
of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or
obstruction activity located in the floodway.
      (3)   This includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading,
clearing, and paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of
construction of the structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial
additions/improvements to existing lawful residences in a non-boundary river
floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26 allows construction of non-substantial additions/
improvements to residences in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a
permit for construction in a floodway from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources. Please note that if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the
existing grade, prior approval (construction in a floodway permit) for the fill
is required from the state’s Department of Natural Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in a floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
150.40 through
150.46 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources. However, the town’s more restrictive
regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory flood more
than fourteen hundredths of one foot; and
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.45 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
150.40 through
150.46 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.46 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to forward the application, along with all pertinent
plans and specifications, to the state’s Department of Natural Resources for
review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in the floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment citing the 100-year flood elevation and the recommended
flood protection grade has been received from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper
construction in a floodway permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a floodplain development permit may be
issued provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the state’s Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in §§
150.40 through
150.46 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodway, fringe, and 100-year flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
150.40 through
150.46 have been met.
   (C)   Cumulative effect. The total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the regulatory flood more than fourteen hundredths of one
foot and will not increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 150.60 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals, as established by the Town Council, shall hear
and decide appeals and requests for variances from requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.61 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the County Superior or
Circuit Court, as provided in I.C. 36-7-4-1003.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.62 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the flood waters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.63 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing laws or ordinances,
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
150.44 or
150.46(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
150.44 or
150.46(A) will require a permit from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
150.41 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (see §
150.64).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the state’s Department of Natural Resources upon request (see §
150.64).
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.64 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice
over the signature of a town official that:
   (A)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
   (B)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. A copy of the notice shall by recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance, and report such variances issued in
the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.65 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.66 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
150.60 through
150.66, and the purposes of this chapter, the Town Planning Commission may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code for the town. All violations
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $250.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Town Planning Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-16-2009)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
Basic Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Defined words
   
151.003   Authority
   
151.004   Purpose
   
151.005   Compliance
   
151.006   Interpretation
   
151.007   Jurisdiction
   
151.008   Policy and interpretation
   
151.009   Severability
   
151.010   Transition rules
   
151.011   Comprehensive Plan
   
151.012   Replats
Administration
   
151.025   Inspections and permits
Subdivision Control
   
151.040   Application for subdivision
   
151.041   Notice of public hearing
   
151.042   Primary plat procedures
   
151.043   Primary plat approval
   
151.044   Secondary plat procedure
   
151.045   Secondary plat approval
   
151.046   Construction plans
   
151.047   Minor plats
Subdivision Bonds
   
151.060   Performance bonds
   
151.061   Release of performance bonds
   
151.062   Maintenance bonds
   
151.063   Other forms of surety
Standards of Design
   
151.075   General
   
151.076   Street standards
   
151.077   Block standards
   
151.078   Lot standards
   
151.079   Easements
   
151.080   Open space
   
151.081   Subdivision and street names
Standards for Improvements and Installation
   
151.095   Street improvements
   
151.096   Concrete
   
151.097   Asphalt pavement
   
151.098   Storm water and subsurface drainage
   
151.099   Curbs and gutters
   
151.100   Sewers/septic systems
   
151.101   Water supply
   
151.102   Monuments and markers
   
151.103   Sidewalks
   
151.104   Street signs and street lighting
   
151.105   Utilities
   
151.106   Parking lots
Drainage and Waivers
   
151.120   General
   
151.121   Waivers
BASIC PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Subdivision Control Regulations for the Town of Leo-Cedarville, Indiana.”
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.002 DEFINED WORDS.
   Words used in a special sense in this chapter are defined in §
152.331 of the Zoning chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.003 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the authority under I.C. 36-7-4 et seq. this chapter is adopted
by the town. Indiana codes cited in this chapter that have been amended or
superseded are deemed amended or superseded by reference.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.004 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of these subdivision regulations are to protect and promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to provide for:
   (A)   Guidance of future growth and development in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and applicable ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Protection of the character, the social, and the economic stability of
all parts of the area, and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development
of all parts.
   (C)   Protection and conservation of the value of land, buildings, and other
improvements upon the land and to minimize the conflicts among the uses of land
and buildings.
   (D)   Avoidance of scattered and uncontrolled subdivisions of land that
would result in the unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of
public funds for the supply of services that are parts of community
infrastructure.
   (E)   Establishment of reasonable standards and procedures for subdivisions
use of land; and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of
subdivided land.
   (F)   Prevention of the pollution of air and water; provision of drainage
facilities and the safeguarding of the water table; and the encouragement of
wise use and management of natural resources in order to preserve the
integrity, stability, natural beauty, topography, and the value of the land.
   (G)   To guide public and private policy and action to provide adequate and
efficient public and private natural resources such as natural beauty, wood
lands, open spaces, and energy, both during and after development.
   (H)   To cause the cost of design and installation of improvements in new,
platted subdivisions to be borne by persons purchasing the lots rather than be
any direct or indirect burden upon existing property owners beyond the limits
of the subdivision who have already paid for the improvement servicing their
property.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.005 COMPLIANCE.
   No land shall be divided, residential subdivision created, or commercial
subdivision created, without complying with all provisions of this chapter and
after the lawful issuance of all permits and certificates required by this
chapter. However, this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth, or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change the
original number of lots in any block of the recorded plat.
   (B)   A division of land into two or more tracts for an agricultural use.
   (C)   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or
a court decree for the distribution of property.
   (D)   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnations as
defined and allowed in the Indiana State Law.
   (E)   Widening of existing streets to conform to the Comprehensive Plan or
Thoroughfare Plan, and Capital Improvement Plan.
   (F)   The acquisition of street rights-of-way by a public agency in
conformance with the Comprehensive Plan or Thoroughfare Plan.
   (G)   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundary lines which does not results in the change of the present land usage.
   (H)   Condominium developments that are regulated by the Indiana Horizontal
Property Act, I.C. 32-1-6 et seq.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.006 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the protection of the health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and
general welfare of the people at large, and are designed to encourage the
establishment and maintenance of reasonable community standards of physical
environment. If one or more provisions within this chapter are in conflict or
are inconsistent with one another, then the provision which is more restrictive
shall control.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.007 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all land within the corporate limits of the Town
of Leo-Cedarville, Indiana upon adoption by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.008 POLICY AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any root parcel of land shall
transfer or sell any subdivision of such parcel before a plat of such
subdivision has been approved by the Commission, in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations, and filed with the County Recorder.
   (B)   The division of any lot or any parcel of land into a subdivision, as
defined in this chapter, by the use of metes and bounds description for the
purpose of sale, transfer, or lease resulting in the creation of one or more
new building sites shall not be permitted. All such described divisions shall
be subject to all of the appropriate requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The Planning Commission will decide if the land to be subdivided shall
be of such a character that it can be developed without peril to health, flood,
fire, or other menace; and land shall not be subdivided until having access to
available existing public facilities, improvements, and proper provision has
been made for drainage, water, sewerage, other necessary new public
improvements such as schools, parks, recreation facilities, and transportation
facilities adequate for serving the subdivision.
   (D)   No plat or re-plat of a subdivision of land located within the
jurisdiction of the Commission shall be recorded until it shall have been
approved by the Commission, and such approval shall have been entered in
writing on the plat by the President of the Commission and the Zoning
Administrator.
   (E)   No land shall be subdivided unless the intended use of the individual
lot is in conformance with the Zoning Ordinance and Comprehensive Plan, now or
hereafter adopted.
   (F)   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the preservation of
historical sites and natural features such as trees, water courses, and scenic
views.
   (G)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (H)   Conflict with public and private provisions.
      (1)   Public provisions. Where any provision of these regulations imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of these
regulations or any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of
law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall
control.
      (2)   Private provisions. These regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant, or any other private agreement or restriction, provided
that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or regulations than such easement, covenant, or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
Where the provisions of the easement covenant, or private agreement or
restriction impose duties and obligations more restrictive, or higher standards
than the requirement of these regulations, or the determinations of the
Commission in providing a subdivision or in enforcing these regulations, and
such private provisions are not inconsistent with these regulations or
determinations thereunder, then such private provisions shall be operative and
supplemental to these regulations and determinations made thereunder. (Note:
Private provisions can only be enforced privately, unless a public agency has
been made a party to such agreements.)
   (I)   No improvement location permit or certificate of occupancy shall be
issued for any parcel or plat of land which was created by subdivision after
the effective date of, and not in conformity with, the provisions of these
subdivision regulations; and, no excavation of land or construction of any
public or private improvements shall take place or be commenced except in
conformity with the regulations contained herein and in conformity with
construction standards adopted by the town.
   (J)   These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now
pending under, or by virtue or, prior existing subdivision regulations.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.009 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application of any provision to
particular circumstances is held unconstitutional or invalid by the courts, the
remainder of the chapter or the application of such provision to other
circumstances shall not be affected.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.010 TRANSITION RULES.
   This chapter shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under,
or by virtue of, prior existing Subdivision Control Ordinance, or
discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.011 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   This chapter has been developed in consideration of the policies, goals,
objectives and strategies of the Leo-Cedarville Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.012 REPLATS.
   For any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat, if such
change affects any street layout shown on such map, area reserved thereon for
public use, any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan legally recorded
prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions, such change
shall be approved by the Plan Commission by the same procedure, rules, and
regulations as for a subdivision.
(Ord. passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.025 INSPECTIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   The developer shall have a pre-construction meeting with the Zoning
Administrator and his/her designated agents and the Town Engineer at least five
days prior to the commencement of work within the development.
   (B)   The Town Engineer has the authority to require such testing as deemed
necessary. Such testing shall be done by an independent source agreeable to the
Engineer and shall be paid for by the subdivider or developer for all required
review, inspection and/or testing or improvements. Testing may include but
shall not be limited to: compaction of the existing subbase and subbase
aggregate; concrete slump, air cylinder and beam tests; coreing for finished
pavement and sidewalk depths; and asphalt content and mix gradation.
   (C)   All fees and costs of the Town Engineer in review of plats, plans,
specifications, field inspections of improvements, and any other aspects of
subdivision review, shall be paid by the subdivider or developer for all
required review and testing of improvements before adoption by the town.
(Ord. passed - - )
SUBDIVISION CONTROL
§ 151.040 APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The subdivider shall have a meeting to consult informally with the
Zoning Administrator and/or the Town Engineer for advice and assistance before
filing the application for a primary, secondary, or minor subdivision plat. At
this meeting, the developer should submit a conceptual layout of the plat for
review.
   (B)   No application shall be accepted until all items detailed below have
been completed and executed by the person proposing the subdivision, or his
designee.
   (C)   When the developer wishes to pursue the plat before the Plan
Commission, he or she shall complete the requirements listed below and
application and submit 25 copies of the proposed plat, and application to the
Zoning Administrator along with the appropriate fees. The Zoning Administrator
and/or Town Engineer shall have 45 days in which to review the documents and to
determine if there are any deficiencies of the proposed plat. The deficiencies,
if any, shall be submitted to the developer.
   (D)   All deficiencies shall be corrected and 25 copies of amended plat
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator 15 days prior to the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Plan Commission or it will not be heard at
that meeting.
   (E)   Street names shall be proposed, but the final decision of the street
names shall be determined by the Commission.
   (F)   Upon placement on the agenda, and prior to the date of a public
hearing, the Zoning Administrator and/or Town Engineer shall review the
proposal and prepare a written report to the Commission and applicant
indicating a recommendation with regard to the subdivision being proposed.
   (G)   The applicant shall pay all fees of the Town Engineer incurred in
review of the application and inspection of the development of the subdivision.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.041 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, upon receipt of the proper documents, shall
set a date for public hearing before the Commission. The Zoning Administrator
shall prepare a notice of public hearing to be reviewed and then published. The
ad must be published in the East Allen County Courier and in the two most read,
local newspapers of general circulation and which shall run one time. The legal
notice shall appear in the newspaper at least ten days prior to the date of the
public hearing, and the cost of the notice shall be charged to the developer. A
proof of publication shall be retained by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   A notice of public hearing via certified, return-receipt mail to the
property owners shall be sent by the petitioner at the expense of the
petitioner to all property owners of record within 300 feet of the boundaries
of the property to be subdivided ten full days prior to the date of the public
hearing. An alternative method of notification would consist of an affidavit or
proof of mailing in which the developer certifies that he has personally
delivered the notice of public hearings to property owners and has obtained the
signatures of each property owner to be notified. This affidavit shall be
properly notarized.
   (C)   Legal notices shall include the following:
      (1)   The general location, in words and by map, of the proposed
subdivision and a legal description of the land contained therein;
      (2)   That the primary plat is available for examination at the town
office;
      (3)   That a public hearing will be held giving the date, place, and hour
of the hearing; and
      (4)   Written comments on the plat will be accepted prior to the public
hearing and may be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for the Plan
Commission.
   (D)   Legal notices shall comply with I.C. 5-3-1.
   (E)   Proofs of publication, receipts of mailing, or proofs of mailing shall
be submitted to the Zoning Administrator two days prior to the date of the
public hearing.
   (F)   Names and addresses of owners of property of record within 300 feet of
the subdivision site shall be presented to the Zoning Administrator at the time
the primary plat application is filed.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.042 PRIMARY PLAT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The plat shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to one inch, except that
when the drawing at that scale requires more than one sheet, the plat may be
drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch. Sheets shall not exceed 24 inches by
36 inches in size.
   (B)   The primary plat shall be prepared and certified by a land surveyor
registered by the State of Indiana.
   (C)   The primary plat shall contain the following information on its face:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
      (2)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, consulting engineer,
land surveyor, and planning firm, etc., who prepared the plat;
      (3)   Legend and notes, including a graphic scale, north point, and data;
      (4)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to section, township, range lines or corners, and existing bench
marks;
      (5)   Topographic contours at typical intervals of two feet. Said
contours shall be referenced to mean sea level elevations and to U.S.
Geological Survey datum plane. The plat must show bench marks that were used to
determine said data;
      (6)   Layout of lots, showing dimension, numbers, and square footage of
each lot;
      (7)   All front set back lines throughout the subdivision. Also, any
other set back lines that do not conform with the Leo-Cedarville Zoning
Ordinance;
      (8)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
parks, playgrounds, or other public, semi-public, or community purposes
including acreage;
      (9)   Existing and proposed streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining
the site of the proposed subdivision showing the proposed names, roadway
widths; and
      (10)   Existing and proposed easements including the location, width, and
purpose of each easement.
   (D)   In addition to the primary plat, the developer shall submit the
following documents:
      (1)   A vicinity map, scaled at 200 feet to one inch, showing the
following:
         (a)   Location of proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Existing subdivisions and parcels of land adjacent to the
proposed subdivision, including the names of the property owners;
         (c)   All public thoroughfares/rights-of-way adjacent to the site;
         (d)   Existing zoning of the tract and all contiguous tracts
surrounding the proposed subdivision;
         (e)   All section and municipal corporate boundaries lying within 500
feet of the subject parcel(s); and
         (f)   The location of any streets and alleys in the proposed
subdivision showing the relationship of said streets to any existing or
proposed streets in contiguous subdivisions or undeveloped property to produce
the most advantageous development of the entire neighborhood.
   (The vicinity map may be prepared by indicating the data by notation on
available maps of an appropriate scale.)
      (2)   A map indicating the location of natural streams, regulated surface
drains, legal ditches flood plains, pipelines, power lines, etc.
      (3)   If the primary plat is to be divided into sections or phases of
development, a conceptual plan for the entire subdivision shall be submitted as
a “phasing schedule” and shall show the boundaries and numbers of such
sections.
      (4)   Protective covenants to be incorporated in the plat. All covenants
are subject to the approval of the Commission.
      (5)   Whenever the preliminary plat covers only a part of an applicant’s
contiguous holdings, the applicant shall submit, at the scale of no more than
one inch equals 200 feet, a sketch of the entire holding, including the
proposed subdivision area, showing an indication of the probable future street
and drainage systems, for the remaining portion of the tract.
      (6)   Letters of acceptance and letter of capacity certification from the
Leo-Cedarville Regional Sewer District and a public water utility verifying
that the sewer district and water utility have the capacity to service the
subdivision and that sewer connections and water will be supplied to the
subdivision. [See standards of design.]
      (7)   A preliminary drainage plan showing the proposed storm water
drainage system to an improved outlet shall be submitted to the Allen County
Surveyor's office. Data shall be included showing that said outlet is adequate
to accommodate the drainage requirements of the finished development. The plan
shall include surface drainage system, storm sewer systems, subsurface drainage
systems, and storm water detention facilities. Arrows designating the general
drainage of all streets and lots shall be included. The plan should also
include the location of any subsurface drain tile either existing or proposed
for the site.
      (8)   A site plan showing the location of water course, marshes, wooded
areas, isolated preservable trees, houses, barns, and other structures and
existing features.
      (9)   A site plan showing the location of proposed sidewalks and trails.
      (10)   A site plan showing the proposed location of street lights and
entrance signs.
      (11)   A site plan showing the proposed preliminary landscaping,
screening, and attempts at preserving natural terrain and open space.
      (12)   Photographs of the site and any significant features.
      (13)   Soil map of the site from the Soil Conservation Service, or it's
successor agency.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.043 PRIMARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   After the Plan Commission has reviewed the primary plat and heard testimony
submitted at the public hearing, the Plan Commission, at the public hearing or
a regularly scheduled meeting in the future, shall approve or disapprove the
primary plat or continue to allow time for amendments. The Commission shall
notify the applicant in writing of its decision.
   (A)   Approval.
      (1)   If the Plan Commission determines that the primary plat complies
with the standards set forth in this chapter, it shall make written findings
and a decision granting primary approval to the plat. This information shall be
sent to the developer in a letter signed by the President or Secretary of the
Plan Commission.
      (2)   The Commission may introduce such changes or revision as are deemed
necessary in the best interest and general welfare of the community.
      (3)   Approval of a primary plan shall be effective for a maximum period
of 18 months unless, upon application of the applicant, the Commission grants
an extension within that period of time.
      (4)   The primary approval of a plat by the Plan Commission shall be
certified on behalf of the Plan Commission by the President or Secretary of the
Commission who shall state the approval in a letter, affix a signature, and
seal it with the Plan Commission’s seal.
   (B)   Disapproval.
      (1)   If the Commission disapproves a primary plat application, the
Commission shall make written findings and notify the applicant in writing,
stating the specific reasons for disapproval. This written notice shall be
signed by the President or Secretary of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The applicant shall be required to observe a three month waiting
period before re-filing a primary plat which has been disapproved by the Plan
Commission.
      (3)   The applicant may submit a new application for primary plat
approval after the three month waiting period but must pay all applicable fees
as if it were an original application.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.044 SECONDARY PLAT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   After approval of the primary plat by the Commission and fulfillment
of the requirements of this chapter, the application, applicable fee, written
descriptions, and 25 blackline or blueline reproductions of the secondary plat
of the subdivision shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator/Commission.
All information shall be submitted 45 days prior to the Commission meeting at
which the plat will be heard. All plats shall be drawn at a scale of 50 feet to
one inch, except that when the drawing at that scale requires more than one
sheet, the plat may be drawn at a scale of 100 feet to one inch. Plats shall be
drawn on a mylar sheet not exceeding 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
   (B)   If the Commission approves the secondary plan, it shall be signed by
the President or Secretary of the Commission and be sealed with the
Commission’s seal. Upon the final approval of the plat, one copy of the signed
and sealed secondary plat shall be forwarded or provided to each of the
following persons at the cost of the petitioner (developer):
      (1)   Allen County Auditor and Recorder;
      (2)   Any corporate utility company that may be affected;
      (3)   Subdivider or petitioner permanent file of Commission;
      (4)   Allen County Surveyor;
      (5)   Town Engineer;
      (6)   Allen County Sheriff Department;
      (7)   Grabill Fire Department, Saint Joe Fire Department, Cedar Creek
Canyons, County 911 Dispatch;
      (8)   Allen County Building Department;
      (9)   Allen County Health Department;
      (10)   County Highway Department;
      (11)   American Electric Power;
      (12)   East Allen County Schools, and East Allen County Schools
Transportation Department;
      (13)   NIPSCO;
      (14)   GTE;
      (15)   Leo-Cedarville Regional Sewer District;
      (16)   Pioneer Water Utility;
      (17)   Leo-Cedarville Cable TV Utility; and
      (18)   Leo-Cedarville Garbage Utility.
   (C)   The secondary plat may include all or only a part of the primary plat
which has received approval and shall be prepared by a land surveyor registered
in the State of Indiana and contain the following certification:
   (“I,                                                                , hereby
certify that I am a Land Surveyor licensed in compliance with the laws of the
State of Indiana; that this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me
on; that all markers shown thereon actually exist; and that their locations,
size, type and material are accurately shown.”
   The secondary plat shall also contain a certification from the owner of the
property as follows:
   (“I/
We,                                                                               ,
the undersigned owners by virtue of that certain deed shown in Deed
Record                            , Page                    , (or Document
No.                         ) in the office of the Recorder of Allen County,
Indiana, of the real estate shown and described herein, do hereby lay off, plat
and subdivide, said real estate in accordance with the information shown on the
final plat. This subdivision shall be known and designated as
                                                                 and addition
to
                                                                            .
   If the Secondary Plat does not contain all of the land approved on the
primary plat, it shall be designated by a section number in a numerical order.
   (D)   The following information shall be shown on the secondary plat:
      (1)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and angles, which provide
a legal, recorded survey per state statute;
      (2)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest official monument.
Reference corners shall be accurately described on the plat;
      (3)   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract;
      (4)   Accurate metes and bounds description of the trace boundary;
      (5)   Source of title of applicant to the land as shown by the last entry
in the books of the County Auditor;
      (6)   Name of subdivision followed by the words “Secondary Plat”;
      (7)   Name and address of the owner and subdivider;
      (8)   North point, graphic scale, and date;
      (9)   Proposed street names;
      (10)   Complete curve table for all curves included in the plat;
      (11)   Street lines with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths of
feet with angles to street, alley, and lot lines. Radii, points of curvatures,
tangent bearings, and lengths of all arcs of street lines shall be provided;
      (12)   Lot number and dimensions including the square footage of each
lot;
      (13)   Accurate locations of easements, description of their use, and any
limitations on such semipublic or community use;
      (14)   Acreage and dimensions for any property to be dedicated or
reserved for public, semi-public, or community use, including sidewalks,
bikeways, and other recreational ways;
      (15)   Front set back lines throughout the subdivision;
      (16)   Signature by the Allen County Surveyor;
      (17)   Location, type, material, and size of all monument and markers;
      (18)   Certificate of approval by the Leo-Cedarville Plan Commission, if
approved;
      (19)   Certificate of approval by the Leo- Cedarville Town Council, if
approved;
      (20)   Signature of the Leo-Cedarville Zoning Administrator, if approved;
and
      (21)   Certificate from IDEM.
   (E)   The following documents shall be included with the secondary plat:
      (1)   Construction plans and specifications for the improvements required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenants in the deeds for lots;
      (3)   A final landscape/screening plan shall be incorporated in the
secondary plat design plans and a phasing schedule of landscaping/screening
improvements; and
      (4)   Any other information or data requested by the Commission necessary
to clarify conditions and terms of plat approval. For example: agency check-off
list acceptance or denial. Entrance sign plan, lighting plan, etc.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.045 SECONDARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   After the complete submittal of the application for approval of the
secondary plat, the Commission shall review the information in a public meeting
to approve or disapprove it. If the Commission determines that the plat
complies with the standards of this ordinance, it shall make written finds and
a decision regarding secondary approval to the plat. No notices of public
hearing shall be required for secondary plat approval.
   (B)   The secondary approval of the plat by the Plan Commission shall be
certified on behalf of the Plan Commission by the President or Secretary who
shall affix their signatures to the plat original and all other relevant
documents which also may require such signatures.
   (C)   If the Plan Commission disapproves the secondary plat, it shall make
written findings and notify the applicant in writing, stating the specific
reasons for disapproval. This written notice shall be signed by the President
or Secretary of the Plan Commission.
   (D)   Approval of the secondary plat shall be effective for a maximum period
of 18 months from the date of approval unless, upon application of the
applicant, the Commission grants an extension within that period of time.
Failure to record the plat with the Allen County Recorder of the subdivision
within the 18 month period, shall void the previously issued secondary
approval. For the purpose of this chapter, “commencing construction” means
completion of the construction survey and staking.
   (E)   A certificate of secondary plat approval shall not be signed until a
performance bond or proof of surety has been submitted to the Plan Commission.
   (F)   No improvement location permit shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator, or his or her agent, for any structures on any subdivision lots
prior to the recording of said subdivision by the County Recorder of Allen
County, Indiana.
   (G)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator, or his or her agent, for any structure on any subdivision lots
prior to installation and completion of all facilities, including grading, as
shown on the development plans and approved by the Commission, except that in
the case of an asphalt road surface, the installation of the final surface coat
may be postponed until the end of the maintenance period. The final coat of
asphalt shall be installed prior to acceptance of the road for public
maintenance.
   (H)   A plat of subdivision may not be filed with the Allen County Auditor,
and the Allen County Recorder may not record it unless it has been granted
secondary approval by the Plan Commission and has been properly signed by the
President or Secretary of the Commission. The filing and recording of the plat
is without legal effect unless approved by the Plan Commission.
   (I)   The subdivider shall supply 25 copies of the recorded plat to the
Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.046 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed
subdivision to have prepared and certified by a land surveyor or professional
engineer (as provided by law) registered in the State of Indiana, a complete
set of construction plans, including profiles, cross-sections, specifications,
and other supporting date for all required public streets, utilities, and other
facilities.
   (B)   The final construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans which
have been approved with the primary plat and shall be prepared and submitted in
conjunction with the secondary plat. The plans shall show the following:
      (1)   General construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements. Plans shall be drawn on standard 24 inch by 36 inch sheets at a
scale of no less than one inch equaling 50 feet or at a
scale to be determined by the Zoning Administrator, and map sheets shall be of
the same size As the secondary plat.
      (2)   Topographic contours at intervals of two feet. Contours shall be
referenced to USGS datum plan, with benchmarks shown.
      (3)   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center
lines of all streets. Where a proposed street intersects an existing street or
streets, the elevation along the center line of the existing street or streets
within 100 feet of the intersection. Radii of all curves, lengths of tangents,
and central angles on all streets shall be shown.
      (4)   The Plan Commission may require, where steep slopes exist, the
cross-sections of all proposed streets.
      (5)   Plans and profiles showing the location and typical cross-section
of streets including curbs, gutters, sidewalks, rights-of-way, drainage
facilities, manholes, and catch basins. Plans shall also show the location,
size, and invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm
water drains, water lines, gas, and fire hydrants, showing connection to any
existing or proposed utility systems.
      (6)   Location, size, elevation, and other appropriate descriptions of
any other existing physical and natural features of facilities including
features noted on the official map of local government, trees, the points of
connection to proposed facilities and utilities, and the approximate high and
low water elevations of all ponds, lakes, and streams. All elevations shall be
referenced to the USGS datum plant.
      (7)   Upon completion of the construction, the developer’s engineer or
surveyor shall provide the Plan Commission with a set of as built construction
plans showing the drainage, street profiles, buried natural gas, electric,
telephone, cable TV, and any other improvements determined by the Plan
Commission.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.047 MINOR PLATS.
   The division of a tract of land into three or less residential parcels or
less, fronting upon an existing street and needing no new street may be
approved as follows: The subdivider shall submit to the Zoning Administrator a
plat, to be approved by the Planning Commission. This plat shall serve as both
the primary and secondary plat for the minor subdivision. The plat shall
contain addresses, lot lines, indication of scale, north point, contour lines,
set-back lines, name of subdivision, certification of owner, and certification
of land surveyor as set forth in §
151.045(C). Additional design specifications for the plat shall be set forth on
the “application for minor plat approval” maintained by the Zoning
Administrator. The subdivider shall submit a completed “application for minor
plat approval” and application fee to the Zoning Administrator along with the
plat. The plat shall be submitted to the Plan
Commission for consideration at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Plan Commission for consideration at the next regularly scheduled meeting of
the Plan Commission that is at least 15 days after the plat is filed with the
Zoning Administrator. The notice requirements of §
151.041 shall apply to minor plat applications. Upon approval of the minor plat
by the Plan Commission, the subdivider may record the plat with the Allen
County Recorder’s Office. Except where otherwise provided, all other provisions
of this chapter shall apply to minor plat developments.
(Ord. passed - - )
SUBDIVISION BONDS
§ 151.060 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   (A)   Before the time when the secondary plat is recorded, the subdivider
shall file a performance bond, cash bond with the Clerk-Treasurer to secure the
completion of unfinished public improvements within the subdivision. The
performance bond or cash bond shall:
      (1)   Be drawn in favor of the Town Council;
      (2)   Be in an amount determined by the Plan Commission to be sufficient
to complete the improvements and installations in compliance with this chapter.
The subdivider’s engineer shall supply an estimate of the cost of improvements
and installation on the project to aid the Commission in its determination of
the amount of the bond. The engineer’s estimate, however, shall not be binding
upon the Commission;
      (3)   If a bond is submitted, it shall be issued by a “AAA” rated
insurance company or bonding company;
      (4)   Comply with all statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to
the Plan Commission’s attorney as to form, sufficiency, and manner of execution
as set forth in these regulations;
      (5)   Extend for the period within which required improvements must be
completed as specified by the Commission in the resolution approving the
secondary subdivision plat; and
      (6)   Cover the installation costs of the streets, sanitary sewers,
curbs, street signs, sidewalks, and other recreational amenities, surface
swales, subsurface and storm drainage systems, seeding/erosion control,
landscaping, and other public improvements.
   (B)   If the Plan Commission is satisfied that the subdivider is financially
solvent and trustworthy, the Commission may, at its discretion, waive the bond
requirement, and require instead that the subdivider submit to the Commission a
letter of commitment issued by a reputable lender, which confirms that the
lender has committed to lend a sum certain to the subdivider for the purpose of
installing the improvements required by this chapter. The Commission may
require that the Town of Leo-Cedarville be included on the letter of commitment
and that the letter contain such other provisions as are necessary to satisfy
the Commission that the town will be protected in the event that the subdivider
defaults on its obligations under this chapter.
   (C)   The Plan Commission may, upon proof of difficulty, recommend to the
Town Council, extension of the completion date set forth in such bond for a
maximum period of nine additional months. The Town Council may at any time
during the period of such bond accept a substitution of principal or sureties
on the bond upon recommendation of the Plan Commission’s attorney. The Town
Council shall have the authority to increase the bond amount to cover increased
costs.
   (D)   All required improvements shall be made by the applicant, at his or
her expense, without reimbursement by the local government or any improvement
district therein.
   (E)   The subdivider shall be required to maintain at his or her expense a
construction manager or engineering firm to act as the on-site representative
for the subdivider and to manage the construction of the subdivision
improvements. The on-site representative shall certify that the subdivision
construction is in compliance with the detailed construction plans submitted to
the Plan Commission during the review of the secondary plat. The on-site
representative shall submit monthly progress reports to the Town Engineer
during construction and should notify the Town Engineer 72 hours ahead of
scheduled work so that an inspection can be made. A final report shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission and the Town Council by the on-site
representative or his or her firm.
   (F)   If the Town Engineer finds upon inspection that any of the required
improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the construction
standards and specifications, the applicant shall be responsible for correcting
any errors in construction and completing the improvements in accordance with
such standards and specifications.
   (G)   If a secondary plat is divided into phases, the Plan Commission may
allow for performance bonds to be submitted to cover only the cost of
improvements to be constructed in each phase.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.061 RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall not accept dedication of required improvements
nor release or reduce the performance bond amount until the Town Engineer has
submitted a final inspection report of the subdivision. The Engineer shall
certify that the layout of the public improvements has been completed, properly
inspected, and is ready for acceptance into the town’s system.
   (B)   The Town Council, upon approval of the Town Engineer’s inspection
report, shall pass a resolution accepting the improvements in the subdivision
and formally releasing the performance bond.
   (C)   In those cases where a performance bond has been posted and required
improvements have not been installed within the terms of such performance bond,
the Town Council may thereupon declare the bond to be in default and hire an
independent contractor to do the installation regardless of the extent of the
building development at the time the bond is declared to be in default.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.062 MAINTENANCE BONDS.
   (A) Before accepting any public street or other public right-or-way
constructed pursuant to the provision of this chapter, the Town Council shall
require the subdivider to post a maintenance bond with the Town Council.
   (B)   The maintenance bond shall:
      (1)   Be drawn in favor of the Town Council;
      (2)   Be in an amount determined by the Council to be sufficient to pay
for any repairs that may be needed to the public street or right-of-way, but
shall not be less that amount equal to 100% of the total cost of constructing
the public street or right-of-way. The subdivider’s engineer shall supply an
itemized statement of the actual cost of public street or right-of-way on the
project to aid the Council in its determination of the amount of the bond. The
engineer’s estimate, however, shall not be binding upon the Council;
      (3)   The maintenance bond submitted shall be issued by a “AAA” rated
insurance company or bonding company;
      (4)   Comply with all statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to
the town’s attorney as to form, sufficiency, and manner of execution;
      (5)   Extend for a period of three to five years as determined by the
Town Council; and
      (6)   Cover the costs of maintaining or repairing the streets, curbs,
street signs, and sidewalks to be accepted by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.063 OTHER FORMS OF SURETY.
   (A)   The subdivider may provide the Town Council with other liquid assets
in an amount equal to the required performance and maintenance bonds. Such
liquid assets may include a cash escrow account, certificate of deposit,
irrevocable letter of credit, money market accounts, etc., so long as to the
proper documents are presented by the subdivider to the Town Council giving
said Council proper signatory access to the funds upon default.
   (B)   Should the subdivider be required to extend to the subdivision site
improvements such as extensions of water and sewer lines owned by the town
which may provide benefits to other properties in the vicinity of the proposed
subdivision, then the subdivider and the Town Council may, by contract, agree
that the other property owners in the vicinity of the subdivision who wish to
connect to or utilize the installation provided by the subdivider shall pay the
town over a period, not to exceed ten years, a fee in an amount agreed to by
the contract and that portion of said fee shall be rebated to the subdivider.
(Ord. passed - - )
STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 151.075 GENERAL.
   (A)   The subdivision layout shall be of such a character that it protects
the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents in the jurisdiction of
the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Whenever a proposed subdivision borders an existing street, the
Commission may require improvements of such street as a condition of plat
approval. Additional dedication of right-of-way may also be required.
   (C)   In designing and approving subdivision streets, the following factors
shall receive consideration:
      (1)   Accessibility for emergency vehicles and school buses;
      (2)   Safety for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Efficiency of services for all users;
      (4)   Livability or amenities as affected by traffic elements in the
circulation system; and
      (5)   Economy of both construction and use of land.
   (D)   No two homes on any given street or cul-de-sac within 250 feet of one
another shall have the same or relatively the same front design. The
determination of “relatively the same front design,” if in question, shall be
determined by vote of the Commission. The Commission shall have the authority
to waive this section for subdivisions involved in the construction of
villaminiums.
   (E)   The Commission may waive the requirement that a street be dedicated to
the public and approve a private street in a subdivision provided all of the
following conditions are satisfied.
      (1)   Restrictive covenants, a written commitment, or other necessary
document(s) running with the land, shall be recorded in such form as is
approved by the Commission to clearly state of record each of the following
provisions.
         (a)   The town shall never be obligated to accept a public dedication,
deed, or any other conveyance of such private street.
         (b)   The town shall never be obligated to maintain or repair the
street.
         (c)   A legally-formed community association comprised of all owners
of lots in the subdivision, as well as each such owner individually, shall be
jointly and severally obligated to maintain and repair each private street in
the subdivision.
         (d)   The subdivision’s community association and all owners of lots
in the subdivision shall jointly and severally indemnify and hold harmless the
town, the Town Council, the Plan Commission, the Zoning Administrator, and
their officers and agents against any loss, damage, or liability arising from
claims or suits for personal injury or property damage involving the design,
construction, use or maintenance of a private street in the subdivision.
         (e)   While the use of a private street may be restricted to owners of
lots in the subdivision, or their invitees and licensees, an express easement
shall be granted to public and quasipublic agencies for use of such streets by
emergency, utility, and school vehicles and personnel, and for any other
purpose the Commission reasonably believes is necessary or appropriate.
      (2)   Title to each private street in the subdivision shall be properly
conveyed by warranty deed to the subdivision’s community association.
      (3)   Evidence of the legal formation of the subdivision’s community
association shall be recorded.
      (4)   Unless waived or modified by the Commission, a private street shall
be constructed and inspected in such a manner as to satisfy the requirements of
§
151.095 of this chapter.
      (5)   A maintenance bond, with coverage comparable to that required for
public streets, for the benefit of the subdivision’s community association and
lot owners, shall be provided by the developer of the subdivision, if the
Commission finds such a bond necessary.
   (F)   In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdivision
plats shall comply with the following rules, laws, and regulations:
      (1)   All applicable statutory provisions;
      (2)   The local zoning ordinances, building and housing codes, and all
other applicable laws of the appropriate jurisdiction;
      (3)   The Comprehensive Plan, Thoroughfare Plan, and Capital Improvement
Plan of the town, including all public facilities, open space, and recreation
plans, as adopted;
      (4)   The rules and regulations of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management, the Department of Natural Resources, Aeronautics
Commission, Allen County Drainage Board, and other appropriate agencies;
      (5)   The rules, regulations, and standards of the Indiana Department of
Transportation if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state
highway;
      (6)   All applicable planning and regulatory guidelines, including access
control, driveway manuals, parking and traffic control ordinances, and other
applicable guides published by the local governmental units; and
      (7)   The “Indiana Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices” (or its
replacement) for installation of traffic control devices.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.076 STREET STANDARDS.
   (A)   The street, alley, and sidewalk layout shall provide adequate
vehicular and pedestrian access to all lots and parcels of land within the
subdivision.
   (B)   Streets shall conform to the following standards.
      (1)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as
to produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
      (2)   Residential street systems shall be designed to minimize through
traffic movement, but certain proposed streets, where appropriate, shall be
extended to the boundary line of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide
for normal circulation of traffic within the vicinity.
      (3)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street or
alley adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the remainder of the street or
alley to the prescribed width shall be platted within the proposed subdivision.
      (4)   Residential street patterns shall provide reasonably direct access
to the primary circulation system.
      (5)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an angle of less
than 75 degrees shall not be acceptable. A street should be approximately at
right angles for at least 100 feet therefrom.
      (6)   Not more than two streets shall intersect at any one point, unless
specifically approved by the Plan Commission, and where streets cross other
streets, jogs shall not be created.
      (7)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersection on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with center line offsets of less than
150 feet shall not be permitted except where the intersected street has
separated, dual drives, without median breaks at either such intersection.
Where local streets intersect with arterial or collector streets, their
alignment shall be continuous.
      (8)   The minimum right-of-way of residential streets shall be 50 feet.
All cul-de-sacs shall terminate in a circular right-of-way with a minimum
diameter of 100 feet and minimum roadway diameter of 80 feet. Cul-de-sac
streets shall be not longer than 1200 feet, unless the Plan Commission shall
determine after public discussion that a greater distance better serves the
interest of public health, safety, and welfare, including traffic flow
considerations; such distance to be measured from the center of the turning
circle to the intersection of the center line of the cul-de-sac street and the
center line of a through street provided, however, that if the residential
streets within the subdivision has only one intersection with a through street,
the entire subdivision shall be considered a cul-de-sac and the distance shall
be measured from the point of intersection of the subdivision street and the
through street.
      (9)   A temporary dead-ended street shall be permitted in any case in
which a street is proposed to be and should logically be extended but is not
yet necessary to be constructed. An adequate barrier and signage shall be
provided for any such temporary dead-end street which extends 200 feet or more
in length. Such easement shall be automatically vacated to abutting property
owners when said dead-ended street is legally extended.
      (10)   At the intersection of any proposed residential street with any
existing street, acceleration and deceleration lanes, and passing or left turn
lanes may need to be provided in accordance with standards established by the
handbook, A Policy of Geometric Design of Highways and Streets, by the American
Association of State Transportation and Highway Officials.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.077 BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Block length and width or acreage within bounding streets shall be
such as to accommodate the size of lot required by the Zoning Ordinance for the
district in which the subdivision is to be located, and to provide convenient
access, circulation control, and safety of street traffic. Blocks that are
unreasonably large or small will not be approved.
   (B)   Blocks should not exceed 1,320 feet in length. In the design of blocks
longer than 800 feet, the Commission may specify the provision of pedestrian
crosswalks near the center of the block, or wherever would be most useful to
facilitate pedestrian circulation to a school, park, recreation area, shopping
center, or other significant neighborhood destination.
   (C)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be permitted
in blocks adjacent to major transportation facilities, watercourses, and
industrial and commercial areas.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.078 LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of the Zoning
Ordinance.
   (B)   Double frontage lots shall be prohibited except where necessary to
provide separation of residential development from arterial streets or to
overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
   (C)   The lot size, width, depth, shape, grade location, and orientation
shall be in proper relation to street and block design and to existing and
proposed topographical conditions.
   (D)   A lot shall abut on a local or minor collector public street except
for minor plats.
   (E)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately right angles to straight
streets and on radial lines on curved streets. Some variation from this
requirement is permissible, but irregular lots should be avoided.
   (F)   Building set back lines shall conform to the provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance.
   (G)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainage way, channel, stream, or flood
plain shall have additional minimum width or depth as required to provide an
adequate building site and afford the minimum usable area required by the
Zoning Ordinance from front, rear, and side yards.
   (H)   Direct vehicular access from lots to minor or major arterial streets
is prohibited except for minor plats. Vehicular access from lots to collector
streets may be prohibited except for minor plats.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.079 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements to permit access for maintenance and repair of surface and
subsurface drainage improvements established by law and utility installations,
shall be provided on the final copies of the primary plat, secondary plat, and
construction plans. Location of easements shall be reviewed by the Town
Engineer and representatives of local utility companies.
   (B)   Easements shall be a minimum of 14 feet in width, shall provide
continuity from block to block, and shall be located along rear, side, or front
lot lines, one-half the width of the easement shall be taken from each lot. In
the case of lots extending to the boundary of the lands platted and not
adjoining another plat, the full width of the easement shall be provided on
such peripheral lots.
   (C)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel, or stream, the subdivider shall designate drainage easements on both
sides of the watercourse, the width to be determined by the Plan Commission and
in the case of a legal drain, the Allen County Drainage Board.
   (D)   When a proposed drainage system shall carry water across private lands
outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured by the
subdivider and indicated on the plat.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.080 OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   The subdivider shall be required to plat a minimum of 875 square feet
of open space for each dwelling unit to be constructed when the density of such
development is one dwelling unit per acre or greater. A dwelling unit shall be
defined as a single-family home, condominium, or apartment/rental unit.
   (B)   The subdivider shall reserve the open space acreage for public use.
The land may be deeded by the subdivider to a duly organized homeowners
association within the subdivision.
   (C)   Easements, crosswalks, and road frontage to provide public access to
the open space shall be shown on the secondary plat.
   (D)   Existing natural features which add value to residential development
and enhance the attractiveness of the community shall be preserved in the
design of the subdivision and should be incorporated into dedicated open space.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.081 SUBDIVISION AND STREET NAMES.
   (A)   The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, or too
closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other subdivision in the area
covered by these regulations. The Plan Commission shall have final authority to
approve the name of the subdivision which shall be determined at the time of
the Preliminary Plat approval.
   (B)   Street names shall not duplicate any existing name within the area
covered by these regulations except where a new street is a continuation of an
existing street. Street names that may be spelled differently but sound the
same as existing streets shall not be used. Street names shall be reviewed and
approved by the “911 Emergency” system.
   (C)   The Plan Commission shall have final authority to name all streets (in
case of conflicts) at the time of secondary plat approval.
(Ord. passed - - )
STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS AND INSTALLATION
§ 151.095 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Streets shall be completed to grades shown on the construction plans
drawn by the subdivider’s professional engineer and approved by the Plan
Commission.
   (B)   Intersections shall be designated with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a 2% grade at a
distance of 100 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the
intersecting street.
   (C)   At intersections of streets or alleys, property line corners shall be
rounded by minimal arcs as follows: Arterial and all streets in commercial and
industrial subdivisions shall have a minimum curb return radius of 35 feet.
Collector streets shall have a minimum curb radius of 30 feet. Local streets
shall have a minimum curb return radius of 25 feet.
   (D)   If the smaller angle of intersection of two streets is less than 75
degrees, the radius of the arc at the intersection of property lines shall be
increased as deemed advisable by the Commission.
   (E)   Horizontal visibility and vertical visibility on all streets must be
maintained along the center line as follows:
      (1)   Principal and minor arterial streets - 350 feet.
      (2)   Collector streets   - 300 feet.
      (3)   Local streets - 250 feet.
   (F)   Curvature measure along the center line shall have a minimum radius as
follows:
      (1)   Principal arterial streets - determined by design speed standards.
      (2)   Minor arterial streets - determined by design speed standards.
      (3)   Collector streets   - 250 feet.
      (4)   Local streets - 200 feet .
   (G)   Between reversed curves there shall be a minimum tangent distance as
follows:
      (1)   Principal and minor arterial streets - 250 feet.
      (2)   Collector streets - 200 feet.
      (3)   Local streets - 50 feet.
   (H)   Maximum/minimum grades for streets shall be as follows:
      (1)   Principal and minor arterial streets - not greater than 4%.
      (2)   Collector streets - not greater than 5%.
      (3)   Local streets - not greater than 8%.
      (4)   Minimum grade for all streets is 0.5%.
   (I)   Before any performance bond covering a street installation is
released, the Plan Commission, Town Council, or Town Engineer may request that
core borings of the street be done at the subdivider’s expense. Cores shall be
reviewed by an independent testing laboratory or registered engineer for
analysis.
   (J)   A developer may request permission of the Plan Commission to delay the
installation of the one-inch surface layer of asphalt until the binder layer of
asphalt has had a sufficient time period to prove its durability under the
stress of heavy construction traffic. The developer may be required to submit a
separate performance bond to cover the cost of the installation of the one-inch
surface layer of asphalt, or at the time of town adoption, or at 80% occupancy.
   (K)   Design requirements of street pavements to conform with the
specifications of the Allen County Highway Department, unless otherwise
modified by this chapter.
   (L)   Dimensional requirements of street pavements.
 
Street Type     Street Width (Feet) Dedicated Right-of-Way Width (Feet)
Major Arterial  48                  90
Minor Arterial  44                  80
Major Collector 38                  70
Minor Collector 34                  60
Local           27                  50
Street width is measured from back to back of the curb and gutter located on
each side of the street. If no curb and gutter, it would be to edge of the
street.
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.096 CONCRETE.
   Concrete utilized for driveways, sidewalks, curbs, curb and gutters and
street pavements shall be “ready-mixed” conforming to ASTM Standard
Specification C-94. The cement shall conform to ASTM Standard Specification C-
175 for air entrained cement with the entrained air within the limits of 4% to
7%. All aggregate shall conform to ASTM Standard Specification C-33.
   (A)   Preparation. All subgrade shall be compacted to 95% density.
   (B)   Forms. Forms shall be of metal or wood, straight and free from warp
and of sufficient strength when braced to resist springing while placing
concrete. The forms shall be to the full depth of the walk or curb and shall be
securely staked, braced and held firmly to the required line and grade. All
sidewalks shall be a minimum of four inches in depth. All driveways shall be a
minimum of six inches in depth.
   (C)   Expansion joints. Expansion joints shall be placed at intervals of
approximately 50 feet. The preformed asphaltic impregnated expansion joint
material shall be composed of a durable elastic compound of mineral or
vegetable matter of not less than one-half inch and shall be placed the entire
width or depth of the walk or curb. Expansion joints of one-half inch thickness
shall also be placed where any sidewalk joins with any curb or curb and gutter,
around all valves, poles, etc., which may fall within the sidewalk.
   (D)   Placing concrete. The subgrade shall be wetted before the concrete is
placed thereon. The concrete shall be deposited within the forms upon the
wetted subgrade to such depth that after being compacted, it shall be to the
full thickness required. Concrete shall be leveled off and tamped sufficiently
to bring mortar to the surface after which it shall be finished smooth and even
by means of a wood float or trowel. Transverse joints shall be cut at intervals
not greater than the width of the sidewalk being constructed or at not greater
than 15 feet on all curbs. When completed the sidewalk and/or curb shall be
covered and kept wet or sprayed with an approved curing agent. Concrete shall
not be allowed to freeze.
   (E)   Concrete proportioning. All concrete shall be of such design and mix
as to conform to the following:
      (1)   Minimum cement content of - six sacks per cubic yard.
      (2)   Minimum compressive strength - 4500 psi @ 28 days.
      (3)   Maximum water-cement ratio - five and one-half gallons per sack.
      (4)   Maximum slump - three inches.
   (F)   Finish. All pavement, curbs an sidewalks shall have a broom finish at
right angles to the direction of travel.
   (G)   Existing walks or curbs, when disturbed or damaged by construction,
shall be replace to their original condition with construction as per new
sidewalks or curbs.
   (H)   All sidewalks will meet the (ADA) American Disability Act
requirements.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.097 ASPHALT PAVEMENT.
   Asphalt pavement shall consist of not less than the following utilizing
INDOT standard material designation unless otherwise noted on the drawings:
 
Topped with:   
                     Compacted #1 or #2 limestone (6" minimum depth), Compacted
Sub-Base Material  #53 limestone #53 gravel or #53 recycled gravel 10"
                     minimum total depth
Base Material        #5 Hot asphaltic concrete base, 4" minimum depth
Binder Material   #8 Hot asphaltic concrete binder, 3" maximum depth
Surface Material  #11Hot asphaltic concrete binder 1 ½" maximum depth
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.098 STORM WATER AND SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Storm water and subsurface drainage shall conform with the
specifications of the Allen County Surveyor’s Office and Allen Drainage Board.
An adequate storm water system with surface inlets shall be installed by the
subdivider. The plans for the drainage of the subdivision showing topography,
direction of flow, size, location, material, profiles, and all connections
thereto, shall meet the requirements of and be approved by the Allen County
Surveyor and Allen County Drainage Board.
   (B)   The subdivider shall provide a subsurface drainage system, below
curbs, to be placed along both sides of the subdivision streets and wherever
else within the subdivision that it is determined to be necessary. The purpose
of the subsurface piping system is to provide drainage for the street subbase.
The subsurface drainage system shall discharge to the storm sewer system or to
the surface drainage system upon approval from the Town Engineer. No subsurface
drainage system connections will be permitted to the sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   It shall be illegal for sump pumps, down spouts, or foundation drains
to outlet directly to the street or into the right-of-way of the street, or to
be connected to the sanitary sewer. Sump pumps shall be connected to the
subsurface drainage system described in this chapter. Sump pumps shall be
outletted to a special drain tile located on private property in either the
rear yard easement or front yard set-back or to the ground surface adjacent to
the structure. The responsibility for the operation and maintenance of this
tile shall rest with the property owner or subdivision association.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.099 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   The Commission shall require curbs and gutters to be installed on each
side of the street surface.
   (B)   The curbs and gutters shall be constructed according to the following
specifications:
      (1)   The base for the curbs and gutters shall be well compacted on the
compacted aggregate as per the street specification.
      (2)   The minimum grade of any street gutter shall not be less than 0.5%.
      (3)   The curbs and gutters shall be roll type, unless otherwise required
or approved by the Town Engineer.
      (4)   Inlets shall be located at the low point in the street grade and at
other spacing as storm water system calculations require.
      (5)   Inlet grates should be depressed slightly below the plane of the
gutter to improve removal of runoff water. Inlet grates shall be heavy-duty
type and recommended for bicycle traffic.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.100 SEWERS/SEPTIC SYSTEMS.
   Sewers shall comply with the requirements of the Leo-Cedarville Regional
Sewer District. It is the intent of this chapter that all subdivisions connect
to a sanitary sewage system. If the sewer district cannot provide service, then
the subdivider shall install a private septic system in compliance with the
requirements of the Allen County Board of Health.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.101 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete water
supply system, which shall be connected to the existing approved Leo-Cedarville
water supply; except that when no such supply is available within 500 feet, the
subdivider shall provide one of the following:
      (1)   Connection to the accepted water utilities; or
      (2)   Individual private wells.
   (B)   The plans for the installation of water main supply systems shall be
provided by the subdivider and approved by the Town Council and the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management. Upon completion of the water supply
installation, the plans for such system as built shall be filed with the Town
Council.
   (C)   Fire hydrants shall be provided at each street intersection and at
intermediate points between intersections, as recommended by the local fire
department, if water for utility is available. Generally, hydrant spacing may
range from 350 to 600 feet, depending on the area being served.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.102 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   Monuments and markers shall comply with the requirements of the Allen County
Surveyor’s Office.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.103 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be located on both sides of every street within the
subdivision plat, including cul-de-sacs. Sidewalks shall be six inches thick at
drives and at least four inches thick in all other locations. Sidewalks shall
be six feet wide adjacent to arterial and collector streets and in commercial,
industrial, and four feet wide in all other locations. Sidewalks shall be
portland cement type in accordance with the standard specifications of the
Indiana Department of Transportation, latest edition, with expansion joints
every 50 feet and control joints every five feet. Sidewalks may be installed on
each lot by individual builders, but the subdivider remains ultimately
responsible for their installation. The Plan Commission may require completion
of the sidewalks to be included in any performance bond submitted pursuant to
§§
151.060 through
151.063 in this chapter.
   (B)   Sidewalks and pathways located away from streets should be properly
lighted to permit visual surveillance of the walk or path from the street.
   (C)   When sidewalks or pathways cross major street intersections within or
adjacent to the subdivision safety devices such as painted crosswalks, signs,
or traffic signals shall be installed, as directed by the Plan Commission.
   (D)   Easements of at least eight feet in width shall be provided for
sidewalks, pedestrian paths, and bicycle paths.
   (E)   Ramps for wheelchairs and bicycles shall be provided on all sidewalks
and pathways and must comply with the requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act. Ramps are to be located at all intersections and other
transition access points. Overhead obstructions shall be cleared to a height of
at least eight feet. Rolled curbs are not a substitute for wheelchair ramps.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.104 STREET SIGNS AND STREET LIGHTING.
   (A)   The subdivider shall be responsible for installing street signs at
each intersection throughout the subdivision. All street signs must comply with
the requirements of the Uniform Traffic Control Devices Manual. The town shall
be responsible for placement of traffic control signs where deemed necessary in
the development by the Town Engineer and Plan Commission.
   (B)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with street lights to be
installed at intersections throughout the subdivision or where deemed necessary
by the Town Engineer. Street lights shall be pole mounted and not exceed 20
feet in height. All electric lines are to be buried.
   (C)   After adoption of street lighting, the Homeowner's Association is
responsible for all maintenance and upkeep. The town is only responsible for
the electric bill.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.105 UTILITIES.
   All utility lines, including electrical power, gas, telephone, CATV, sewer,
and water shall be located underground throughout the subdivision. The location
of utility easements shall be shown on the secondary plat. Service connections
to the property lines of each lot in the development shall be provided by the
utility or subdivider.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.106 PARKING LOTS.
   Construction of parking lots should conform with the requirements of local
streets.
(Ord. passed - - )
DRAINAGE AND WAIVERS
§ 151.120 GENERAL.
   (A)   Drainage, erosion, and sediment control shall conform with the
requirements of the Allen County Surveyor’s Office and shall be approved by the
Allen County Surveyor.
   (B)   No changes shall be made in the contour of the land, nor shall
grading, or excavating begin until a plan for minimizing erosion and
sedimentation has been reviewed by the Allen County Surveyor’s Office and a
copy of said approval is received by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   IDEM needs permit for anything over five acres. See Rule #5, IDEM.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 151.121 WAIVERS.
   (A)   General provision for waivers. This chapter establishes the minimum
requirements necessary to meet the community’s expectations regarding health,
safety, access and welfare within new developments. However, in certain
circumstances, flexibility in the implementation of this chapter will be
required to promote innovative development and to handle unique problems or
take advantage of unique benefits arising from the specific qualities of
individual parcels of land. Accordingly, the Plan Commission is hereby
delegated the authority to grant waivers to any of the specific requirements of
this chapter subject to the conditions and procedures set forth in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Procedure for obtaining a waiver. The Plan Commission can grant
waivers only upon request by the applicant. To request a waiver of any
provision of this chapter, the applicant must submit an application for waiver
form to the Plan Commission at the time of application for primary plat review.
The application for waiver form shall be provided by the Zoning Administrator.
Requests for waivers will not be accepted or processed as part of secondary
development plan review.
   (C)   Conditions for granting an application for waiver. 
      (1)   The Plan Commission may grant an application for waiver only if the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The applicant can demonstrate that compliance with the standards
for which a waiver is sought places an unreasonable burden or an undue hardship
on the applicant because of a unique quality of the land which is to be
subdivided. Or the applicant can demonstrate a benefit to the local community
or to the town at large which arises from a unique quality of the land which is
to subdivided or from the innovative nature of the proposal contained in the
primary development plan and which will be lost if the standards of this
chapter are strictly adhered to; and
         (b)   The Plan Commission is satisfied that the overall objectives of
this chapter can be met without strict adherence to the standards for which the
applicant seeks a waiver.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall only grant a waiver of the standards set
forth in this chapter after public hearing. The Plan Commission shall issue
written findings of fact regarding the above conditions before granting or
denying the application for waiver.
   (D)   Conditional waivers. If necessary to achieve the overall objectives of
this chapter (see division (C)(1)(b) above), the Plan Commission may condition
the grant of a waiver upon a commitment by the applicant to exceed one or more
development standards in other areas of the primary development. If a waiver is
granted, the waiver, and any related conditions, shall be noted within the
conditions of approval of the primary plat.
(Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
Basic Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Defined words
   
152.003   Authority
   
152.004   Purpose
   
152.005   Compliance
   
152.006   Severability
   
152.007   Interpretation
   
152.008   Jurisdiction area
   
152.009   Application
   
152.010   Saving provision
   
152.011   Amendments
   
152.012   Effective date
General Zoning Districts
   
152.025   Establishment of districts
   
152.026   Planned development districts
   
152.027   Land uses for districts
   
152.028   Unlisted or questionable land uses
Residential Zoning Districts
   
152.040   R1 District
   
152.041   R2 District
   
152.042   R3 District
   
152.043   R4 District
   
152.044   R5 District
   
152.045   MP District
Commercial Zoning Districts
   
152.060   NC District
   
152.061   OC District
   
152.062   DC District
   
152.063   C1 District
   
152.064   C2 District
Agricultural Zoning Districts
   
152.075   AG District
Conversion Overlay Districts
   
152.090   Purpose
   
152.091   Special definitions
   
152.092   Conversion District overlay boundaries
   
152.093   District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses
   
152.094   Conversion Overlay District standards
Official Zoning Map; Pre-Annexation Map
   
152.105   Official zoning map
   
152.106   Official zoning map copies
   
152.107   Location of the official zoning map
   
152.108   Zoning district boundaries
   
152.109   Regular revisions
   
152.110   Damaged, destroyed, or lost official zoning map
   
152.111   Zoning map standards
Development Standards
   
152.125   Introduction
   
152.126   Development standards that apply
   
152.127   Lot/yard standards (LY)
   
152.128   Height standards (HT)
   
152.129   Accessory uses/structures standards (AC)
   
152.130   Temporary uses/structures standards (TU)
   
152.131   Home occupation standards (HO)
   
152.132   Adult use ordinance (AU)
   
152.133   Landscaping standards (LS)
   
152.134   Buffering standards (BF)
   
152.135   Environmental standards (EN)
   
152.136   Lighting standards (LG)
   
152.137   Parking standards (PK)
   
152.138   Loading standards (LD)
   
152.139   Entrance/drives standards (ED)
   
152.140   Vision clearance standards (VC)
   
152.141   Building standards
   
152.142   Health and safety standards
   
152.143   Fence standards
   
152.144   Swimming pool standards
Planned Developments
   
152.155   PD District intent, permitted uses, and miscellaneous standards
   
152.156   General
   
152.157   Rezoning to a planned development district
   
152.158   Planned development uses
   
152.159   Origination of proposals
   
152.160   General procedure
   
152.161   Filing procedure
   
152.162   Preliminary development plan
   
152.163   Final development plan
   
152.164   Final development plan hearing
   
152.165   Approval of detailed plan
   
152.166   Covenants and maintenance
   
152.167   Recording
   
152.168   Permits
   
152.169   Construction
   
152.170   Extension, abandonment, expiration
   
152.171   Rules of procedure
   
152.172   Limitation of rezoning
Development Plans
   
152.185   Authority
   
152.186   Designation of development plan districts
   
152.187   Development requirements
   
152.188   Procedure for filing development plans
   
152.189   Content of development plans and supporting documentation
   
152.190   Waivers
Sign Regulations
   
152.205   General provisions
   
152.206   Definitions
   
152.207   Permits and fees
   
152.208   Inspection, removal, safety
   
152.209   Nonconforming signs
   
152.210   Prohibited signs
   
152.211   Exemptions
   
152.212   Temporary signs
   
152.213   Illumination
   
152.214   Sign standards by zone districts
   
152.215   Residential zoning districts
   
152.216   Commercial zoning districts
   
152.217   Other zoning districts
Nonconforming Buildings, Structures, Lots, and/or Uses
   
152.230   Intent
   
152.231   Distinction between nonconforming and legally nonconforming
   
152.232   Nonconforming buildings and structures
   
152.233   Nonconforming lots
   
152.234   Nonconforming uses of structures, land, or structures and land in
combination
   
152.235   Repairs and maintenance
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
152.250   Membership
   
152.251   Officers, members, and employees
   
152.252   Territorial jurisdiction
   
152.253   Powers and duties
   
152.254   Rules and procedures
   
152.255   Hearings
   
152.256   Appearances
   
152.257   Order of business
   
152.258   Official action
   
152.259   Appeals
   
152.260   Special exceptions
   
152.261   Variances
   
152.262   Exclusion
Administration
   
152.275   Administration officer
   
152.276   Effect on annexation or vacation on zoning
   
152.277   Summary of powers and duties of the Town Council
   
152.278   Summary of powers and duties of the Plan Commission
   
152.279   Summary of powers and duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals
Processes, Permits and Fees
   
152.290   Types of petitions
   
152.291   Processes per type of petition
   
152.292   Improvement location permits
   
152.293   Schedule of improvement location permits
   
152.294   Certificate of occupancy
   
152.295   Schedule of fees
Enforcement
   
152.310   Authority
   
152.311   Violations
   
152.312   Inspection of property
   
152.313   Responsibility of violations
   
152.314   Violations during the construction/building process
   
152.315   Types of violations
   
152.316   Appeals to Board of Zoning Appeals
   
152.317   Appeals or trials
Definitions
   
152.330   General
   
152.331   Defined words
   
152.999   Penalties and procedures for enforcement
   Appendix A:Fee Schedule for Planning Services
   Appendix B:County Zoning Pre-Annexation Map
   Appendix C:Town of Leo-Cedarville Zone Map
Cross-reference:
   Flood prevention, see
Chapter 150
BASIC PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited and referred to as the Town of Leo-Cedarville
Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.002 DEFINED WORDS.
   Words used in a special sense in this chapter are defined in §
152.331.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.003 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the authority under I.C. 36-7-4 et seq. this chapter is adopted
by the town. Indiana codes cited in this chapter that have been amended or
superseded are deemed amended or superseded by reference.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.004 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to encourage the growth and development of the town
in accordance with the Town of Leo-Cedarville Comprehensive Plan and for the
following purposes.
   (A)   To secure adequate light, air, and convenience of access; and safety
from fire, flood, and other dangers;
   (B)   To promote the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, morals and
general welfare;
   (C)   To plan for the future development of the town to the end:
      (1)   That the community grows only with adequate public way, utility,
health, educational, and recreational facilities;
      (2)   That the needs of agriculture, industry, and business be recognized
in future growth;
      (3)   That residential areas provide healthful surroundings for family
life; and
      (4)   That the growth of the community is commensurate with and promotes
the efficient and economical use of public funds.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.005 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved,
altered, converted, or enlarged; nor shall any structure or land be used,
except in full compliance with all provisions of this chapter and after the
lawful issuance of all permits and certificates required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.006 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application of any provision to
particular circumstances is held unconstitutional or invalid by the courts, the
remainder of the chapter or the application of such provision to other
circumstances shall not be affected.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.007 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the protection of the health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and
general welfare of the people at large, and are designed to encourage the
establishment and maintenance of reasonable community standards of physical
environment. If two or more provisions within this chapter are in conflict or
are inconsistent with one another, then the provision which is most restrictive
shall control.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.008 JURISDICTION AREA.
   This chapter shall apply to all land within the corporate limits of the Town
of Leo-Cedarville, Indiana upon adoption by the Leo-Cedarville Town Council.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.009 APPLICATION.
   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate or amend any
existing easements, covenants, or other agreements, between parties, nor is it
intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way interfere
with any existing provisions of laws or ordinances (other than previous zoning
ordinances), or any rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued
pursuant to law relating to the use of building or premises provided, however,
that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings
or premises than is imposed or required by such existing provisions of law or
by such rules, regulations, agreements, covenants, or permits, the provisions
of this chapter shall control; but where private covenants, permits,
agreements, rules or regulations impose a greater restriction than is imposed
by this chapter, the greater restriction shall control.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.010 SAVING PROVISION.
   This chapter shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under,
or by virtue of, prior existing zoning ordinance, or as discontinuing, abating,
modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.011 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   In accordance with I .C. 36-7-4-602, the legislative body may amend or
partially repeal the text of this chapter or they may amend the zoning maps of
this chapter as follows:
      (1)   The legislative body or the Plan Commission may initiate a proposal
to amend or partially repeal the text according to the procedure of I.C. 36-7-
4-602(b) and I.C. 36-7-4-607 and according to the Commission Rules and
Procedures.
      (2)   The legislative body, Plan Commission, or at least 50% of the
affected property owners may initiate a petition to change the zoning maps
according to the procedure of I.C. 36-7-4-602(c) and I.C. 36-7-4-608 and
according to the Commission rules.
   (B)   In its review of the text and zone map amendments, the legislative
body and the Plan Commission shall pay reasonable regard to:
      (1)   The most recently adopted Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Current conditions and the character of structure and uses in each
district;
      (3)   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
      (4)   The conservation of property values throughout the jurisdiction;
and
      (5)   Responsible development and growth.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.012 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The zoning ordinance in this chapter shall be effective March 20, 2007. The
effective date is based on the passage and notice of adoption as required by
law.
(Ord. passed - - )
GENERAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.025 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the town is divided into the following
zoning districts for the general purposes as stated:
   (A)   R1-Estate Residential. This district includes those areas within the
town which are proposed for large size lots and medium to large homes for
single family detached uses.
   (B)   R2-Low Density Residential. This district includes those areas within
the town which are proposed for medium size lots and medium size homes for
single-family detached use.
   (C)   R3-Medium Density Residential. This district includes areas for a wide
range of dwelling unit types including single, two, and multifamily dwellings.
   (D)   R4-Old Town Neighborhood Residential. This district has been specially
developed for the existing older neighborhoods in the town.
   (E)   R5-Multifamily Residential. This district is established for
multifamily units and special single-family developments.
   (F)   MP-Mobile Home Park. This district is established for manufactured
home parks that meet the base-line Federal and State of Indiana regulations for
manufactured homes.
   (G) NC-Neighborhood Commercial. This district is intended for small scale
businesses that provide products and services dominantly to local
neighborhoods.
   (H)   OC-Office Commercial. This district is generally intended for small to
moderate scale office uses with provisions for some complementary uses.
   (I)   DC-Downtown Commercial. This district is intended to provide a land
use category for small retail, office food sales, and other commercial uses
customary to small town downtown areas.
   (J)   C1-Small to Medium Scale General Commercial. This district is
generally intended for a wide variety of retail, commercial, service,
entertainment, and eating establishments that are small to medium in scale.
   (K)   C2-Business Park/Light Manufacturing/Utility. This district is
generally intended for unique uses and uses that necessitate special
regulations.
   (L)   AG-Agriculture. This district is composed of land being used for
production farming, hobby farming, and environmentally sensitive areas. These
districts are not expected to develop for intensive urban uses within the near
future. It is the intent of this district to allow agricultural uses, to
conserve the desirable characteristics of the land, to preserve prime
agriculture land, and to protect the open area from the encroachment of
scattered urban-type uses.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.026 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter allow the R1, R2, R3, R5, OC, C1, and
C2 districts to be rezoned for a planned development. No other districts can be
rezoned into a planned development district.
   (B)   On the Official Zoning Map a planned development district, once
rezoned, shall be labeled as PD followed by the district it was created from.
The following are the appropriate labels for Planned Development Districts: PD-
R1, PD-R2, PD-R3, PD-R5, PD-OC, PD-C1, and PD-C2.
   (C)   The provisions that regulate Planned Developments can be found in §§
152.155 through
152.170.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.027 LAND USES FOR DISTRICTS.
   In the following three subchapters, each of the zoning districts have a
section that describes the permitted uses, special exceptions and building
standards for that district. To determine if a use is permitted, non-permitted,
or a special exception, first find the section for the subject district. Next
review the permitted use and special exception divisions for the desired land
use. If the land use is not listed it is a non-permitted use. If it is listed
in the permitted use division it is a permitted use. And if it is listed in the
special exception division, it is permitted if approved through the special
exception process. These following three subchapters represent three categories
of zoning districts:
   (A)   Residential Zoning Districts, §§
152.040 through
152.045;
   (B)   Commercial Zoning Districts, §§
152.060 through
152.064; and
   (C)   Agricultural Zoning Districts, §
152.075.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.028 UNLISTED OR QUESTIONABLE LAND USES.
   Any land use not listed as a permitted use or special exception is
considered non-permitted unless the Zoning Administrator makes a determination
otherwise. The Zoning Administrator may determine into which category any
questionable use is to be placed if not specifically listed. If the proposed
land use is similar to another use that is permitted it may, with approval, be
accepted as a permitted use. If the proposed land use is similar to another use
that is special exception it may, with approval, be accepted as a special
exception. Any determination by the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.040 R1 DISTRICT.
   (A)   R1 District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent.
         (a)   The R1 District, Estate Residential, is intended to provide a
land use category for large lots and medium to large single-family detached
homes. The provisions that regulate this land use district should protect,
promote and maintain areas in the town for existing and future housing growth.
         (b)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
protect this district from conflicting land uses, and non-family oriented
businesses.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family.
         (b)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Accessory structures;
            2.   Decks attached or free standing;
            3.   Private swimming pool.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Bed and breakfast facility;
            2.   Boarding or lodging house;
            3.   Child care home (owner occupied home);
            4.   Manufactured home;
            5.   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
            6.   Residential facility for the mentally ill;
            7.   Home occupation.
         (b)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Church, temple or mosque;
            2.   Community center;
            3.   Fire station;
            4.   Public park/recreation center;
            5.   School, public/private.
         (c)   Communication/utilities.
            1.   Cellular/communication/radio/television tower;
            2.   Pipeline pumping station;
            3.   Public wells;
            4.   Telephone exchange;
            5.   Utility substation.
         (d)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Artificial lake.
   ( B)    R1 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1201.png]            [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1203.png]
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 22,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width:
• 100 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 60 feet on a public street with access from said public street
Minimum Front Yard:
• 40 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 35 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
Minimum Side Yard:
• 10 feet
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 30 feet for the Primary Structure
• 10 feet for Accessory Structures
Maximum Structure Height:
• 50 feet for the Primary Structure
• 25 feet for Accessory Structures
 
Additional Standards that Apply
Lot/Yard Standards (LY) Buffering (BF)
• LY-01               • BF-01
Height Standards (HT)   Environmental (EN)
• HT-01               • EN-01
Accessory Uses (AC)     Lighting (LG)
• AC-01               • LG-01
• AC-02               Parking (PK)
Temporary Uses (TU)     • PK-01
• TU-01               Loading (LD)
• TU-02               • none
Home Occupations (HO)   Entrance/Drive (ED)
• HO-01               • ED-01
Landscaping (LS)        Vision Clearance (VC)
• LS-01               • VC-01
• LS-02                
   See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1205.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.041 R2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   R2 District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)    District intent.
         (a)    The R2 District, Low Density Residential, is intended to
provide a land use category for medium sized lots and medium to large single-
family detached homes. The provisions that regulate this land use district
should protect, promote and maintain areas in Leo-Cedarville for existing and
future housing growth.
         (b)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
protect this district
from conflicting land uses, and non-family oriented businesses.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family.
         (b)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Accessory structures;
            2.   Decks attached or free-standing;
            3.   Private swimming pool.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Bed and breakfast facility;
            2.   Boarding or lodging house;
            3.   Child care home (owner occupied home);
            4.   Manufactured home;
            5.   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
            6.   Residential facility for the mentally ill;
            7.   Home occupation.
         (b)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Church, temple or mosque;
            2.   Community center;
            3.   Fire station;
            4.   Public park/recreation center;
            5.   School, public/private;
         (c)   Communication/utilities.
            1.   Cellular/communication/radio/television tower;
            2.   Pipeline pumping station;
            3.   Public wells;
            4.   Telephone exchange;
            5.   Utility substation.
         (d)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Artificial lake.
   (B)    R2 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1207.png]      [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1209.png]
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 14,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width:
• 80 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 40 feet on a Public Street with access from said Public Street
Minimum Front Yard:
• 25 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 20 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
Minimum Side Yard:
• 7 feet
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 25 feet for the Primary Structure
• 10 feet for Accessory Structures
Maximum Structure Height:
• 50 feet for the primary structure, from the grade at the front entrance
• 25 feet for Accessory Structures
 
Additional Standards that Apply
Lot/Yard Standards (LY) Buffering (BF)
• LY-01               • BF-01
Height Standards (HT)   Environmental (EN)
• HT-01               • EN-01
Accessory Uses (AC)     Lighting (LG)
• AC-01               • LG-01
• AC-02               Parking (PK)
Temporary Uses (TU)     • PK-01
• TU-01               Loading (LD)
• TU-02               • none
Home Occupations (HO)   Entrance/Drive (ED)
• HO-01               • ED-01
Landscaping (LS)        Vision Clearance (VC)
• LS-01               • VC-01
• LS-02                
   See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1211.png]
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.042 R3 DISTRICT.
   (A)   R3 District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)    District intent.
         ( a)   The R3 District, Medium Density Residential, is intended to
provide a land use category for small to medium sized lots and medium single
family detached homes. The provisions that regulate this land use district
should protect, promote and maintain areas in the town for existing and future
housing growth.
         ( b)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive
to protect this district from conflicting land uses, and non-family oriented
businesses.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family.
         (b)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Public park/recreation center.
         (c)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Accessory structures;
            2.   Decks attached or free standing;
            3.   Private swimming pool.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Bed and breakfast facility;
            2.   Boarding or lodging house;
            3.   Child care home (owner occupied home);
            4.   Children’s home;
            5.   Group home;
            6.   Manufactured home;
            7.   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
            8.   Residential facility for the mentally ill;
            9.   Home occupation.
         (b)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Church, temple or mosque;
            2.   Community center;
            3.   Fire station;
            4.   Library;
            5.   Post office;
            6.   School, public/private.
         (c)   Communication/utilities.
            1.   Cellular/communication/radio/television tower;
            2.   Pipeline pumping station;
            3.   Public wells;
            4.   Telephone exchange;
            5.   Utility substation.
         (d)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Artificial lake.
   (B )    R3 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1213.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1215.png]
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 9,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width:
• 70 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 30 feet on a Public Street with access from said Public Street
Minimum Front Yard:
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
 
Minimum Side Yard:
• 7 feet
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 25 feet for the Primary Structure
• 7 feet for Accessory Structures
Maximum Structure Height:
• 40 feet for the primary structure, from the grade at the front entrance
• 20 feet for Accessory Structures
 
Additional Standards that Apply
Lot/Yard Standards (LY) Buffering (BF)
• LY-01               • BF-01
Height Standards (HT)   Environmental (EN)
• HT-01               • EN-01
Accessory Uses (AC)     Lighting (LG)
• AC-01               • LG-01
• AC-02               Parking (PK)
Temporary Uses (TU)     • PK-01
• TU-01               Loading (LD)
• TU-02               • none
Home Occupations (HO)   Entrance/Drive (ED)
• HO-01               • ED-01
Landscaping (LS)        Vision Clearance (VC)
• LS-01               • VC-01
• LS-02                
                         
See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1217.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.043 R4 DISTRICT.
   (A)   R4 District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent.
         (a)   The R4 District, Old Town Neighborhood Residential, is intended
to provide a land use category for small lots and small to medium single-family
detached homes. The provisions that regulate this land use district should
protect, maintain and promote where possible the “old town” areas in Leo-
Cedarville.
         (b)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
protect this district from business encroachment, conflicting land uses, and
non-family oriented businesses.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family.
         (b)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Public park/recreation center.
         (c)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Accessory structures;
            2.   Decks attached or free standing;
            3.   Private swimming pool.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Dwelling, multifamily, duplex;
            2.   Bed and breakfast facility;
            3.   Boarding or lodging house;
            4.   Child care home (owner occupied home);
            5.   Children’s home;
            6.   Group home;
            7.   Manufactured home;
            8.   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
            9.   Residential facility for the mentally ill;
            10.   Home occupation.
         (b)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Church, temple or mosque;
            2.   Community center;
            3.   Fire station;
            4.   Library;
            5.   Post office;
            6.   School, public/private.
         (c)   Communication/utilities.
            1.   Cellular/communication/radio/television tower;
            2.   Pipeline pumping station;
            3.   Public wells;
            4.   Telephone exchange;
            5.   Utility substation.
         (d)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Artificial lake.
   (B)    R4 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1219.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1221.png]
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 5,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Per Family:
• 5,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width:
• 40 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 40 feet on a Public Street with access from said Public Street
Minimum Front Yard:
• 20 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 20 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 20 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 20 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
Minimum Side Yard:
• 7 feet
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 15 feet for the Primary Structure
• 3 feet for Accessory Structures
 
Maximum Structure Height:
• 40 feet for the primary structure, from the grade at the front entrance
• 20 feet for Accessory Structures
 
   Additional Standards that Apply
Lot/Yard Standards (LY) Buffering (BF)
• LY-01               • BF-01
Height Standards (HT)   Environmental (EN)
• HT-01               • EN-01
Accessory Uses (AC)     Lighting (LG)
• AC-01               • LG-01
• AC-02               Parking (PK)
Temporary Uses (TU)     • PK-01
• TU-01               Loading (LD)
• TU-02               • none
Home Occupations (HO)   Entrance/Drive (ED)
• HO-01               • ED-01
Landscaping (LS)        Vision Clearance (VC)
• LS-01               • VC-01
• LS-02
See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.044 R5 DISTRICT.
   (A)   R5 District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent.
         (a)   The R5 District, Multifamily Residential, is intended to provide
a land use category for small to medium scale multifamily developments. The
provisions that regulate this land use district should protect, promote and
maintain areas in the town for existing and future multifamily housing growth.
         (b)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
use this district as a buffer between other residential districts, and the NC,
OC, DC, C1, and C2 Commercial Districts. This district should be within close
proximity to parks, open space, services and retail if possible. Avoid locating
near conflicting land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Dwelling, multifamily;
            2.   Dwelling, multifamily, duplex;
            3.   Dwelling, multifamily, apartment;
            4.   Accessory structure;
            5.   Decks attached or free standing;
            6.   Private swimming pools;
            7.   Nursing home;
            8.   Retirement community;
            9.   Home occupation.
         (b)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Public park/recreation center;
            2.   Church, temple or mosque;
            3.   Cemetery;
            4.    Community center;
            5.    Fire station;
            6.    Government office;
            7.    Library;
            8.    Police station;
            9.    Post office;
            10.     School, public/privat e.
      (3 )     Special exception uses.
         (a)   Communication/utilities.
            1.   Cellular/communication/radio/television tower;
            2.   Pipeline pumping station;
            3.   Public wells;
            4.   Telephone exchange;
            5.   Utility substation.
         (b)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Artificial lake.
   (B)   R5 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1225.png]    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1227.png]
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 30 000 square feet
Minimum Lot Per Family:
• 8 500 square feet
Minimum Lot Width:
• 200 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 100 feet on a Public Street with access from said Public Street
Minimum Front Yard:
• 60 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 50 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 50 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 50 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
Minimum Side Yard:
• 25 feet
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 30 feet for the Primary Structure
• 20 feet for Accessory Structures
 
Minimum Structure Height:
• 40 feet for the primary structure, from the grade at the front entrance
• 20 feet for Accessory Structures
 
   Additional Standards that Apply
Lot/Yard Standards (LY) Buffering (BF)
• LY-01               • BF-01
Height Standards (HT)   Environmental (EN)
• HT-01               • EN-01
Accessory Uses (AC)     Lighting (LG)
• AC-01               • LG-01
• AC-02               Parking (PK)
Temporary Uses (TU)     • PK-01
• TU-01               • PK-02
• TU-02               Loading (LD)
Home Occupations (HO)   • none
• HO-01               Entrance/Drive (ED)
Landscaping (LS)        • ED-01
• LS-01               Vision Clearance (VC)
• LS-02               • VC-01
                        
   See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19- 2021)
§ 152.045 MP DISTRICT.
   (A)   MP District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent.
         (a)   The MP (Mobile Home Park) District is intended to provide a land
use category for mobile home parks that comply with all state and federal
statutes, regulations, and case law.
         (b)   This district should be within close proximity to parks, open
space, services, and retail if possible. Avoid locating near conflicting land
uses and nonfamily oriented businesses.
         (c)   See definition of MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOME: DWELLING,
MANUFACTURED HOME and DWELLING, MOBILE HOME.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Dwelling, manufactured home;
            2.   Dwelling, mobile home;
            3.   Dwelling, single-family;
            4.   Accessory structure;
            5.   Private sw im mi ng po ols .
         (b )    In stit uti on al/ pu bli c fa cil iti es.
            1.    Pu bli c pa rk/ re cre ati on ce nte r.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Church, temple or mosque;
            2.   Community center;
            3.   Fire station;
            4.   School, public/private.
         (b)   Communication/utilities.
            1.    Cellular/communication/radio/television tower;
            2.   Pipeline pumping station;
            3.   Public wells;
            4.   Telephone exchange;
            5.   Utility substation.
   (B)   MP District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1229.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1231.png]
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 5,500 square feet
Minimum Lot Width:
• 35 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 35 feet on a Public Street with access from said Public Street
Minimum Front Yard:
• 45 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 45 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 40 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 35 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
Minimum Side Yard:
• 10 feet (plus buffer yard)
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 8 feet for the Primary and Accessory Structures (plus buffer yard)
 
Maximum Structure Height:
• 15 feet for the primary structure from the grade at the front entrance
• 10 feet for Accessory Structures
 
 
Additional Standards that Apply
Lot/ Yar d Stan dard s (LY) Buffering (BF)
• LY-01                   • BF-01
Height Standards (HT)       Environmental (EN)
• HT-01                   • EN-01
Accessory Uses (AC)         Lighting (LG)
• AC-01                   • LG-01
• AC-02                   Parking (PK)
Temporary Uses (TU)         • PK-01
• TU-01                   Loading (LD)
• TU-02                   • none
Home Occupations (HO)       Entrance/Drive (ED)
• HO-01                   • ED-01
Landscaping (LS)            Vision Clearance (VC)
• LS-01                   • VC-01
• LS-02
See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - )
COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.060 NC DISTRICT.
   (A)   NC District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent.
         (a)   The NC (Neighborhood Commercial) District is intended to provide
a land use category for small scale commercial uses that provide products and
services to neighborhoods. The provisions that regulate this land use district
should promote appropriate commercial uses that are clearly nonconflicting with
neighborhoods in the town.
         (b)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
use this district sparingly and appropriately as needed in the community.
         (c)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should also
strive to exclude businesses from the NC District that are not family oriented
or that have an adverse effect on the existing or future adjacent
neighborhoods.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Business: retail.
            1.   Drug store;
            2.   Flower shop;
            3.   News dealer/bookstore.
         (b)   Business: auto sales/services.
            1.   Auto sales/service.
         (c)   Business: food sales/service.
            1.   Bakery, retail;
            2.   Convenience store;
            3.   Delicatessen;
            4.   Grocery/supermarket.
         (d)   Business: personal service.
            1.   Barber/beauty shop;
            2.   Day care;
            3.   Fitness center/gym.
         (e)   Business: recreation.
            1.   Video store.
         (f)   Business: office/professional.
            1.   Bank machine/ATM.
         (g)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Public park/recreation center;
            2.   Accessory use structure.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family (upper stories);
            2.   Dwelling, multifamily, (upper stories).
         (b)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Church, temple or mosque;
            2.   Community center;
            3.   Government office;
            4.   Library;
            5.   Police/fire station;
            6.   Post office;
            7.   Recycling collection point;
            8.   School, public/private.
         (c)   Communication/utility.
            1.   Telephone exchange;
            2.   Utility substation.
            3.   Public well.
   (B)    NC District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1233.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1235.png]
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 7,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width:
• 60 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 60 feet on a Public Street with access from said Public Street
Minimum Front Yard:
• 20 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 20 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 20 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 20 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
Minimum Side Yard:
• 15 feet (plus buffer yard)
(0 feet if neighboring yard is commercial)
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 15 feet for the Primary and Accessory Structures (plus buffer yard)
 
Maximum Structure Height:
• 35 feet for the Primary Structure, from the grade at the front entrance
• 15 feet for Accessory Structures
 
Additional Standards that Apply
Lot/Yard Standards (LY) Buffering (BF)
• LY-01               • BF-01
Height Standards (HT)   Environmental (EN)
• HT-01               • EN-01
Accessory Uses (AC)     Lighting (LG)
• AC-01               • LG-01
• AC-02               Parking (PK)
Temporary Uses (TU)     • PK-01
• TU-01               • PK-03
• TU-02               Loading (LD)
Home Occupations (HO)   • none
• HO-01               Entrance/Drive (ED)
Landscaping (LS)        • ED-01
• LS-01               Vision Clearance (VC)
• LS-02               • VC-01
See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.061 OC DISTRICT.
   (A)   OC District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent.
         (a)   The OC Office Commercial District is intended to provide a land
use category for low impact office commercial uses. The provisions that
regulate this land use district should make the district compatible with all
residential districts. This district can be used as a buffer between any
residential district and high impact or conflicting land uses.
         (b)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
use this district
sparingly.
         (c)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should also
strive to minimize lighting, large parking lots, traffic generation, traffic
conflicts, and noise generation in the OC District.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Business: office/professional.
            1.   Architecture;
            2.   Bank/credit union/ATM;
            3.   Design services;
            4.   Insurance office;
            5.   Planning offices;
            6.   Professional offices;
            7.   Real estate office;
            8.   Secretarial service;
            9.   Service organization offices.
         (b)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Government office;
            2.   Library;
            3.   Police/fire station;
            4.   Post office.
            5.   Public park/recreation center;
            6.   School, public/private.
         (c)   Business: general business.
            1.   Clinic/medical/dental;
            2.   Advertising agency.
         (d)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Accessory structures.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family (upper floors);
            2.   Dwelling, multifamily, (upper floors).
         (b)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Church, temple or mosque;
            2.   Community center.
         (c)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Recycling collection point.
   (B)    OC District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1233.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1235.png]
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 9,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width:
• 70 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 50 feet on a Public Street with access from said Public Street
Minimum Front Yard:
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
Minimum Side Yard:
• 12 feet (plus buffer yard)
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 12 feet for the Primary and Accessory Structures (plus buffer yard)
Maximum Structure Height:
• 45 feet for the Primary Structure
• 15 feet for Accessory Structures
 
Additional Standards that Apply
Lot/Yard Standards (LY) Buffering (BF)
• LY-01               • BF-01
Height Standards (HT)   Environmental (EN)
• HT-01               • EN-01
Accessory Uses (AC)     Lighting (LG)
• AC-01               • LG-01
• AC-02               Parking (PK)
Temporary Uses (TU)     • PK-01
• TU-01               • PK-03
• TU-02               Loading (LD)
Home Occupations (HO)   • none
• HO-01               Entrance/Drive (ED)
Landscaping (LS)        • ED-01
• LS-01               Vision Clearance (VC)
• LS-02               • VC-01
See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.062 DC DISTRICT.
   (A)   DC District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)    District intent.
         (a)    The DC Downtown Commercial District is intended to provide a
land use category for small retail, office, food sales and other commercial
uses typical to small town downtowns. The provisions that regulate this land
use district should make the district compatible with the R5 Residential
Districts, and OC and C1 Commercial Districts.
         (b)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
use this district only in the historic downtown area and its immediate
surroundings.
         (c)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
minimize parking
lots between buildings, rather, encouraging parking behind buildings.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Dwelling, single-family (upper floors);
            2.   Dwelling, multifamily, (upper floors).
         (b)   Business: retail.
            1.   Antique shop;
            2.   Apparel shop;
            3.   Drug store;
            4.   Fabric shop;
            5.   Flower shop;
             6.   Gift shop;
            7.   Hardware store;
            8.   Jewelry store;
            9.   Music store;
            10.   News dealer/bookstore;
            11.   Shoe sales;
            12.   Sporting goods;
            13.   Variety store;
            14.   Office supplies;
            15.   Resale shop;
            16.   Printing shop;
            17.   Lawn, landscape, garden store.
         (c)   Business: food sales/service.
            1.   Bakery retail;
            2.   Convenience store;
            3.   Delicatessen;
            4.   Farmers market;
            5.   Restaurant.
         (d)   Business: personal service.
            1.   Barber/beauty shop;
            2.   Shoe repair;
            3.   Tailor/pressing shop.
         (e)   Business: office/professional.
            1.   Advertising agency;
            2.   Architecture;
            3.   Bank/credit union;
            4.   Bank machine;
            5.   Design services;
            6.   Insurance office;
            7.   Planning offices;
            8.   Professional offices;
            9.   Real estate office;
            10.   Secretarial service;
            11.   Service organization offices;
            12.   Travel agency;
            13.   Clinic medical, dental office.
         (f)   Business: auto sales/service.
            1.   Automobile parts sales (new).
         (g)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Accessory structures;
            2.   Self storage.
         (h)   Institution/public facilities.
            1.   Community center;
            2.   Government office;
            3.   Police/fire station;
            4.   Post office.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Bed and breakfast facility;
            2.   Boarding or lodging house.
         (b)   Business: personal service.
            1.   Coin laundry;
            2.   Dry-cleaning service.
         (c)   Business: recreation.
            1.   Dance/aerobics/gymnastics studio;
            2.   Karate studio;
            3.   Lodge or private club;
            4.   Theater, indoor;
            5.   Video store.
         (d)   Business: general business.
            1.   Print shop.
         (e)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Church, temple or mosque;
            2.   Museum;
            3.   Public park/recreation center;
            4.   Public/private parking area.
   ( B)    DC District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1233.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1235.png]
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 3,500 square feet
Minimum Lot Width:
• 25 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 25 feet on a Public Street
Minimum Front Yard:
• 5 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 5 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 5 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 5 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
Minimum Side Yard:
• 0 feet when adjacent to commercial property
(New commercial development side yard buffering
may have additional setback regulations and
administrative review)
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 0 feet for the Primary
• 0 feet for the Accessory Structures
Maximum Structure Height:
• 40 feet for the Primary Structure, from the grade at the front entrance
• 15 feet for Accessory Structures
 
Additional Standards that Apply
                        Buffering (BF)
Lot/Yard Standards (LY) • BF-01
• LY-01               Environmental (EN)
Height Standards (HT)   • EN-01
• HT-01               Lighting (LG)
Accessory Uses (AC)     • LG-01
• AC-03               Parking (PK)
• AC-04               • PK-02
Temporary Uses (TU)     • PK-03
• TU-01               • PK-04
• TU-03               • PK-05
Home Occupations (HO)   Loading (LD)
• HO-01               • none
Landscaping (LS)        Entrance/Drive (ED)
• LS-01               • ED-01
• LS-02               Vision Clearance (VC)
                        • VC-01
See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.063 C1 DISTRICT.
   (A)   C1 District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent.
         (a)   The C1 Small to Medium Scale General Business District is
intended to provide a land use category for most general business uses. The
provisions that regulate this land use district should not overly restrict
normal business practices. This district can be used adjacent to all other
commercial districts and the residential districts.
         (b)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
use this district with the C2 District to encourage a strong and stable area
for commerce.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Business: retail.
            1.   Apparel shop;
            2.   Antique shop;
            3.   Drug store;
            4.   Electrical supplies;
            5.   Fabric shop;
            6.   Floor coverings;
            7.   Flower shop;
            8.   Furniture store;
            9.   Gift shop;
            10.   Hardware store;
            11.   Jewelry store;
            12.   Liquor sales;
            13.   Music store;
            14.   News dealer/bookstore;
            15.   Office supplies;
            16.   Paint store;
            17.   Satellite dish sales/service;
            18.   Shoe sales;
            19.   Sporting goods;
            20.   Variety store.
         (b)   Business: auto sales/services.
            1.   Automobile part sales (new);
            2.   Automobile sales;
            3.   Automobile body shop (enclosed);
            4.   Automobile repair/minor (enclosed);
            5.   Automobile service station;
            6.   Automobile wash (automatic and self);
            7.   Filling/gas station;
            8.   Oil change service.
         (c)   Business: food sales/service.
            1.   Bakery retail;
            2.   Convenience store;
            3.   Delicatessen;
            4.   Drive-in restaurant;
            5.   Grocery/supermarket;
            6.   Meat market;
            7.   Restaurant.
         (d)   Business: personal service.
            1.   Barber/beauty shop;
            2.   Coin laundry;
            3.   Dry-cleaning service;
            4.   Fingernail salon;
            5.   Shoe repair;
            6.   Tailor/pressing shop;
            7.   Tanning salon.
         (e)   Business: recreation.
            1.   Bar/night club;
            2.   Billiard/arcade room;
            3.   Bowling alley;
            4.   Dance/aerobics/gymnastics studio;
            5.   Theater, indoor;
            6.   Video store.
         (f)   Business: office/professional.
            1.   Bank/credit union;
            2.   Bank/ATM;
            3.   Insurance office;
            4.   Real estate office;
            5.   Travel agency.
         (g)   All professional and medical offices.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Business: food sales/service.
            1.   Farmers market;
            2.   Roadside food stand.
         (b)   Business: personal service.
            1.   Day care.
         (c)   Business: Recreation.
            1.   Adult uses;
            2.   Lodge or private club;
            3.   Miniature golf;
            4.   Public docks;
            5.   Theater, outdoor.
   (B)    C1 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1233.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1235.png]
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 35,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width:
• 25 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 25 feet on a Public Street with access from said Public Street
Minimum Front Yard:
• 5 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 5 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 5 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 5 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
 
Minimum Side Yard:
• 5 feet (plus buffer yard)
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 5 feet for the Primary/Accessory Structure (plus buffer yard)
Maximum Structure Height:
• 40 feet for the Primary Structure, from the grade at the front entrance
• 15 feet for Accessory Structures
 
Additional Standards that Apply
Lot/Yard Standards (LY) Environmental (EN)
• LY-01               • EN-01
Height Standards (HT)   Lighting (LG)
• HT-01               • LG-01
Accessory Uses (AC)     Parking (PK)
• AC-03               • PK-02
• AC-04               • PK-03
Temporary Uses (TU)     • PK-04
• TU-01               • PK-05
• TU-03               Loading (LD)
Home Occupations (HO)   • none
• HO-01               Entrance/Drive (ED)
Landscaping (LS)        • ED-01
• LS-01               Vision Clearance (VC)
Buffering (BF)          • VC-01
• BF-01               Audio Use (All)
                       • AU-01
See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.064 C2 DISTRICT.
   (A)   C2 District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)   District intent.
         (a)   The C2 Business Park/Light Industrial District is intended to
provide a land use category for most low to moderate impact business park and
light industrial facilities. This district can be used adjacent to all other
commercial districts, agriculture districts, and residential districts.
         (b)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive to
use the C2 District to develop a contiguous area, or cluster, for commerce and
job creation.
         (c)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should not
encourage “spot zoning” with this district. The Plan Commission and Board of
Zoning Appeals should also strive to minimize lighting, parking lots fronting
the major streets, excessive use of signs, and traffic conflicts in the C2
District.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Agricultural uses/service.
            1.   Agricultural seed sales;
            2.   Storage of agricultural products.
         (b)   Business: general business.
            1.   Self storage;
            2.   Print shop;
            3.   Sign painting/fabrication;
            4.   Welding;
            5.   Wholesale business;
            6.   Lumber yard.
         (c)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Recycling collection point;
            2.   Trade or business school.
         (d)   Business recreation.
            1.   Adult uses (see Adult Use/definition ordinance)
         (e)   Industrial uses.
            1.   Bottled gas storage/distribution;
            2.   Distribution center;
            3.   Flex-space;
            4.   Industrial park;
            5.   Light manufacturing;
            6.   Liquid fertilizer and distribution;
            7.   Office complex;
            8.   Research center;
            9.   Warehouse.
         (f)   Communication/utilities.
            1.   Cellular/communication/radio/television tower;
            2.   Pipeline pumping station;
            3.   Public wells;
            4.   Sewage treatment plants;
            5.   Telephone exchange;
            6.   Utility substation;
            7.   Water treatment plant.
         (g)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Accessory uses.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Agricultural uses/service.
            1.   Farm equipment sales/service;
            2.   Processing agriculture products;
            3.   Storage of agricultural products.
         (b)   Business: auto sales/services.
            1.   Automobile/truck storage (outdoor).
         (c)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Cemetery;
            2.   Fire station.
   (B)    C2 District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1233.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1235.png]
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 25,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width:
• 70 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 70 feet on a Public Street with access from said Public Street
Minimum Front Yard:
• 35 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 35 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 30 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 25 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
Minimum Side Yard:
• 25 feet (plus buffer yard)
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 25 feet for the Primary/Accessory Structure (plus buffer yard)
Maximum Structure Height:
• 45 feet for the Primary Structure, from the grade at the front entrance
• 35 feet for Accessory Structures
 
Additional Standards that Apply
Lot/Yard Standards (LY) Environmental (EN)
• LY-01               • EN-01
Height Standards (HT)   Lighting (LG)
• HT-01               • LG-01
Accessory Uses (AC)     Parking (PK)
• AC-03               • PK-02
• AC-04               • PK-03
Temporary Uses (TU)     • PK-04
• TU-01               • PK-05
• TU-03               Loading (LD)
Home Occupations (HO)   • none
• HO-01               Entrance/Drive (ED)
Landscaping (LS)        • ED-01
• LS-01               Vision Clearance (VC)
• LS-02               • VC-01
Buffering (BF)          Audio Use (All)
• BF-01               • AU-01
   See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - )
AGRICULTURAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.075 AG DISTRICT.
   (A)   AG District intent, permitted uses, and special exception uses.
      (1)    District intent.
         (a)    The AG District, Agriculture, is intended to provide a land use
category for agricultural activities. The provisions that regulate this land
use district should protect, promote and maintain areas in the town for farming
operations.
         (b)    The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should strive
to protect this district from “spot zoning,” conflicting land uses, and any use
that may inflict significant environmental impacts.
         (c)   The Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals should also
strive to promote prime
agriculture land for production crops in the AG District.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Dwelling, single family;
            2.   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
            3.   Residential facility for the mentally ill;
            4.   Child care home (owner occupied home).
         (b)   Agricultural uses.
            1.   Agricultural crop production;
            2.   Agricultural livestock production;
            3.   Orchards;
            4.   Plant nursery;
            5.   Storage of agricultural products;
            6.   Storage of farm vehicles;
            7.   Storage of farm equipment;
            8.   Storage of farm materials;
            9.   Tree farms.
         (c)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Public park/recreation.
         (d)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   Accessory uses;
            2.   Artificial lake - One or more acres.
            3.   Decks attached or free standing;
            4.   Home occupations;
            5.   Private swimming pool.
      (3)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Residential.
            1.   Group home.
         (b)   Agricultural uses.
            1.   Agricultural seed sales;
            2.   Commercial raising of nonfarm animals;
            3.   Farm equipment sales/service;
            4.   Processing agriculture products;
            5.   Processing agriculture products produced on site;
            6.   Riding stables and trails.
         (c)   Business: general business.
            1.   Kennel.
         (d)   Institutional/public facilities.
            1.   Fire station;
            2.   Church, mosque, or temple;
            3.   School, public or private;
            4.   Child care center;
            5.   Community center.
         (e)   Communication/utility.
            1.   Telephone exchange;
            2.   Utility substation;
            3.   Public well;
            4.   Sewage treatment plant;
            5.   Water treatment plant.
   (B)   AG District standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1238.png]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1240.png]
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 5 acres
Minimum Lot Width:
• 300 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 200 feet on a Public Street with access from said Public Street (only if used
for a building site for primary or accessory structures)
Minimum Front Yard:
• 60 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 50 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 45 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 40 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
Minimum Side Yard:
• 45 feet for Primary Structure
• 35 feet for Accessory Structure
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 40 feet for Primary Structure
• 35 feet for Accessory Structure
 
Maximum Structure Height:
• 35 feet for the Primary Structure, from the grade at the front entrance
• 50 feet for Accessory Structures
 
 
Additional Standards that Apply
Lot/Yard Standards (LY) Buffering (BF)
• LY-01               • BF-01
Height Standards (HT)   Environmental (EN)
• HT-01               • EN-01
Accessory Uses (AC)     Lighting (LG)
• AC-01               • LG-01
• AC-02               Parking (PK)
Temporary Uses (TU)     • PK-01
• TU-01               Loading (LD)
• TU-02               • none
Home Occupations (HO)   Entrance/Drive (ED)
• HO-01               • ED-01
Landscaping (LS)        Vision Clearance (VC)
• LS-01               • VC-01
• LS-02
   See §§
152.125 through
152.144 for all Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - )
CONVE RSION OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 152.090 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish special overlay districts in
the town. The Overlay District intent is stated below.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.091 SPECIAL DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions are to be used for this subchapter only.
   MEDIUM TO LARGE SCALE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT. Planned business uses placed on
one or more lots, and that use between 20,000 square feet and five acres of
land to hold all site improvements and structures.
   PRIMARY ZONING DISTRICT. The primary zoning district is the district “under”
the overlay district.
   SMALL LOTS.  Lots smaller than 8,000 square feet or that are consistent with
the original plated lots for residential uses in the town.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.092 CONVERSION DISTRICT OVERLAY BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries for the Conversion District Overlay are shown on the Leo-
Cedarville Official Zone Map. The district is marked with a hatch pattern as
designated on the map’s legend.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.093 DISTRICT INTENT, PERMITTED USES, AND SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES.
   (A)    District intent.
      (1)   This overlay district can only be used over districts with small
lots to enable medium to large scale business developments to occur as
appropriate for the community. To allow these medium to large business
developments to occur, the developer must assemble multiple residential small
lots. This is required in order to prevent conflicting land uses or adverse
effects to adjacent residential property owners.
      (2)   To qualify for the Conversion District Overlay, the developer must
meet the regulations of this Overlay District.
      (3)   The Plan Commission and BZA should strive to disallow development
proposals that leave stray residential properties or that are deemed
conflicting land uses. Further, appropriate buffering should be required.
      (4)   All development proposals for the Conversion District Overlay are
contingent on Plan Commission approval after at least one public hearing.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   As a primary zoning district. Residential properties within this
Overlay District shall continue to be regulated by the permitted uses of the
primary zoning district.
      (2)   As a conversion district overlay. The following business uses are
permitted uses once all lot and building standards set forth in this subchapter
have been met:
         (a)   Auto sales/service.
            1.   Auto parts;
            2.   Auto sales;
            3.   Auto wash;
            4.   Gas station;
            5.   Oil change service.
         (b)   Business: food sales /service.
            1.   Bakery retail;
            2.   Convenience store;
            3.   Delicatessen;
            4.   Grocery/supermarket;
            5.   Restaurant.
         (c)   Business: general business.
            1.   ATM machine;
            2.   Insurance;
            3.   Real estate;
            4.   Travel.
         (d)   Business: office/professional.
            1.   Bank/credit union;
            2.   Medical clinic.
         (e)   Business: personal service.
            1.   Beauty salon;
            2.   Tanning salon.
         (f)   Business: recreation.
            1.   Theater, indoor;
            2.   Video store.
         (g)   Business: retail.
            1.   Apparel shop;
            2.   Book shop;
            3.   Drugstore;
            4.   Fabric shop;
            5.   Floor coverings;
            6.   Flower shop;
            7.   Furniture store;
            8.   Gift shop;
            9.   Hardware store;
            10.   Home electronics/appliance store;
            11.   Music shop;
            12.   Office supplies;
            13.   Paint store;
            14.   Sporting goods.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   As a primary zoning district. Residential properties within this
overlay district shall continue to be regulated by the special exceptions of
the primary zoning district.
      (2)   As a conversion district overlay. The following business uses are
special exception uses once all lot and building standards set forth in this
subchapter have been met:
         (a)   Business: food sales /service.
            1.   Drive-in restaurant;
            2.   Farmer's market;
            3.   Roadside stand.
         (b)   Business: personal service.
            1.   Daycare;
            2.   Dry-cleaning service;
            3.   Fitness center/gym;
            4.   Health spa.
         (c)   Business: recreation.
            1.   Bowling alley;
            2.   Lodge/private club.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.094 CONVERSION OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS.
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1233.png]         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1235.png]   
 
 
Minimum Lot Area:
• 20,000 square feet
Maximum Lot Area:
• 5 acres
Minimum Lot Width:
• l0 feet
Minimum Lot Frontage:
• 9 feet on a Public Street with access from said Public Street
 
Minimum Front Yard:
• 8 feet when adjacent to a Primary Arterial Road
• 5 feet when adjacent to a Secondary Arterial Road
• 5 feet when adjacent to a Collector Road
• 5 feet when adjacent to a Local Road
Minimum Side Yard:
• 5 feet
Minimum Rear Yard:
• 10 feet for the Primary and Secondary Structure
Maximum Structure Height:
• 45 feet for the Primary Structure, from the grade at the front entrance
• 25 feet for Accessory Structures
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1223.png]
 
(Ord. passed - - )
OFFICIAL ZONING MAP; PRE- ANNEXATION MAP
§ 152.105 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The zoning map of the town, officially labeled “Town of Leo-Cedarville
Zoning Map”, is hereby included as part of this chapter. The map may also be
known as and referred to as the Official Zoning Map. There may be only one
Official Zoning Map.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.106 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP COPIES.
   Copies of the Official Zoning Map may be made and distributed to interested
persons. The Official Zoning Map copies shall be labeled as copies and have the
date which the map was last modified printed on the map.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.107 LOCATION OF THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The Official Zoning Map will be located in the office of the Town Clerk
Treasurer.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.108 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The zoning district boundaries shall be shown on the Official Zoning Map.
The two-letter abbreviations used for the zoning districts (i.e. R1) appearing
in this chapter shall be used to label the zoning districts on the map. Planned
developments shall be shown on the map by the four-letter abbreviations as
noted in this chapter. The ordinance number and date of passage approving a
planned development shall be included on the Official Zoning Map.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.109 REGULAR REVISIONS.
   The zoning map shall be formally revised annually, or as the Plan Commission
determines necessary. During interim periods of time, hand drawn lines and text
on the Official Zoning Map will be appropriate to note zoning changes. Copies
may be made after the amendments are noted, and each copy shall be noted as an
update with the “date last changed” noted on the map. Other revisions may be
made to correct drafting or other errors or omission in the prior map, but
shall not have the effect of amending the Official Zoning Map except as adopted
by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.110 DAMAGED, DESTROYED, OR LOST OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost
or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the Town Council may, by resolution, adopt a new Official Zoning Map
which shall, to the extent possible, duplicate the accuracy of the damaged,
destroyed or lost map.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.111 ZONING MAP STANDARDS.
   District boundaries on the Official Zoning Map shall meet the following
standards:
   (A)   District boundaries shown within the lines of roads, easements, and
transportation right-of-ways shall be deemed to follow the center lines.
   (B)   District boundaries indicated as following section or fractional
sectional lines, platted lot lines, or town corporation lines shall be
construed as following such lines.
   (C)   District boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of above
features shall be construed as so.
   (D)   District boundaries indicated as approximately following the center
line of streams, rivers, or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow
such center lines.
   (E)   The vacation of streets and roads shall not affect the location of
such district boundaries.
   (F)   When the Zoning Administrator cannot definitely determine the location
of a district boundary by such center lines, by scale or dimensions stated on
the Official Zoning Map, or by the fact that it clearly does not coincide with
a property line, the Zoning Administrator shall refuse action and the Plan
Commission shall interpret the location of the district boundary with reference
to the scale of the Official Zoning Map and the purposes set forth in all
relevant provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Any ruling of the Zoning Administrator pertaining to the district
boundaries may be appealed to the Plan Commission. Rulings of the Plan
Commission pertaining to district boundaries may be appealed to the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. passed - - )
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 152.125 INTRODUCTION.
   All structures, buildings, land uses, structural alterations, structural
relocations, structural additions, and structural enlargements that are
constructed, created, established, or occur after the effective date of this
chapter (except as may otherwise be provided within this chapter) shall be
subject to all development standards and regulations for the applicable zoning
district.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.126 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS THAT APPLY.
   Under the sections below are development standards that are arranged by
category. To determine which development standards apply to the subject zoning
district, refer to the “Additional Standards that Apply” for that subject
Zoning District. The four digit codes noted in the “Additional Standards that
Apply” sections for each Zoning district can be found in the sections below.
Only the four digit codes noted in the “Additional Standards that Apply”
section for each Zoning District apply to that Zoning District.
   As an example, the four-digit code “LY-01" can be found under the
“Additional Standards that Apply” section for the Neighborhood Commercial (NC)
District. Therefore, the Development Standards following the section below
labeled “LY-01" would apply to Neighborhood Commercial (NC) Districts.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.127 LOT/YARD STANDARDS (LY).
   (A)   All existing conflicts with the lot/yard regulations at the effective
date of this chapter shall be considered a legal non-conforming structure.
   (B)   Except hereinafter provided, no building or structure shall be erected
unless such building or structure conforms; and no building or structure shall
be altered, enlarged or reconstructed unless such alteration, enlargement, or
reconstruction conforms with the lot/yard regulations of the district in which
it is located, as follows:
      (1)   Front yard requirements. The minimum front yard depths shall be as
noted in the District Standards for each zoning district found in §§
152.040 through
152.045,
152.060 through
152.064, and
152.075.
      (2)   Side yard requirements. The minimum side yard depths shall be as
noted in the District Standards for each Zoning District found in §§
152.040 through
152.045,
152.060 through
152.064, and
152.075.
      (3)   Rear yard requirements. The minimum rear yard depths shall be as
noted in the District Standards for each Zoning District found in §§
152.040 through
152.045,
152.060 through
152.064, and
152.075.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.128 HEIGHT STANDARDS (HT).
   HT-01. No structure may be erected or changed so as to make its height
greater than specified for the subject zoning district, except as noted below.
Exceptions to height standards include:
   (A)   Church steeples;
   (B)   Municipal water towers;
   (C)   Commercial cellular/communication/radio/television towers;
   (D)   Transmission towers;
   (E)   Necessary mechanical appurtenances;
   (F)   Elevator bulkheads; and
   (G)   Chimneys.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.129 ACCESSORY USES/STRUCTURES STANDARDS (AC).
   (A)   AC-01. Accessory uses/structures shall comply with all development
standards for the subject zoning district. Also, no accessory uses/structures
shall encroach on any platted easement unless written consent of the agency
that has jurisdiction over the easement is provided. The granting of an ILP
does not mean that no easement is present. The Zoning Administrator is not
responsible for locating easements, rather the property owner is responsible
for determining the existence of easement rights on the subject property. A
fence built over a utility or other easement may be torn down by the easement
holder, and the cost of repairing the fence will be the sole responsibility of
the fence owner. Furthermore, no accessory structure that has a foundation or
which has any part built below ground, shall be constructed within 15 feet
horizontally from the centerline of any easement for a sanitary sewer main.
      (1)   Accessory uses/structures are not allowed on a lot prior to any
primary structure being constructed. Accessory uses/structures also must relate
to the primary structure and its uses.
      (2)   The following accessory uses are permitted, but must abide by all
applicable standards:
         (a)   Free standing antenna or satellite dishes over 400 square
inches;
         (b)   Bath houses;
         (c)   Decks;
         (d)   Detached garages;
         (e)   Fences;
         (f)   Gazebos;
         (g)   Greenhouses;
         (h)   Mini barns;
         (i)   Patios;
         (j)   Pole barns;
         (k)   Sauna;
         (l)   Sheds;
         (m)   Sport courts; and
         (n)   Swimming pools.
   (B)   AC-02. All permissible accessory uses/structures shall abide by the
following standards:
      (1)   Accessory uses/structures may not exceed 40% of the floor area of
the primary structure.
      (2)   No accessory structure may be placed in the front yard on a lot.
      (3)   No swimming pools, hot tubs, mini barns or bath houses may be
placed in the side yard or front yard on a lot.
   (C)   AC-03. Accessory uses/structures shall comply with all development
standards for the subject zoning district. Also, no accessory uses/structures
shall encroach on any platted easement without written consent of the entity
the easement belongs to or is managed by.
      (1)   Accessory uses/structures are not allowed on a lot prior to any
primary structure being constructed. Accessory uses/structures also must relate
to the primary structure and its uses.
      (2)   The following accessory uses are permitted, but must abide by all
applicable standards:
         (a)   Free standing antenna or satellite dishes over 400 square
inches;
         (b)   Decks;
         (c)   Fences;
         (d)   Gazebos;
         (e)   Greenhouses;
         (f)   Parking lots;
         (g)   Patios; and
         (h)   Sheds.
   (D)   AC-04. All permitted accessory uses/structures shall abide by the
following standards:
      (1)   Only parking lots may be placed in the front yard on a lot; and
      (2)   Only parking lots, greenhouses, gazebos, and patios may be placed
in the side yard on a lot.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.130 TEMPORARY USES/STRUCTURES STANDARDS (TU).
   (A)   TU-01. Temporary uses or structures that abide by all applicable
development standards for the subject district are permitted. The following
standards also pertain to temporary uses/structures.
      (1)   Transition to permanent or accessory uses/structures. Any temporary
use or structure that is intended to transition into a permanent or accessory
use/structure must meet all standards for a permanent or accessory use/
structure. Further, the intent to transition any temporary use/structure to a
permanent or accessory use/structure must be presented upon application for
such temporary uses/structures. In the event the intent is not noted upon
application, the transition to a permanent or accessory use/structure will not
be permitted for one year from the application date or date the temporary use/
structure is installed; whichever is sooner.
      (2)   Duration. All temporary uses/structures are subject to a maximum
duration unless otherwise specified in this chapter. All temporary uses/
structures shall be permitted for the period of time to be stipulated on
application.
      (3)   Permit. All temporary uses/structures will be required to have a
temporary improvement location permit and will be subject to fees in the fee
schedule resolution, unless otherwise noted in this subchapter.
      (4)   Cessation of use. All temporary uses/structures must, upon
cessation, remove all structures, elements, and debris; and revert all
alterations to the original site to its original state. All removal and
alterations must take place within the permitted duration.
   (B)   TU-02. Temporary uses permitted include:
      (1)   Garage sales;
      (2)   Children’s roadside stand (no permit necessary); and
      (3)   Tents for a private party/event (no permit necessary).
   (C)   TU-03. Temporary uses permitted include:
      (1)   Outdoor sales;
      (2)   Temporary signs (see Sign Regulation, §§
152.205 -
152.217); and
      (3)   Tents for sales and business events.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.131 HOME OCCUPATION STANDARDS (HO).
   (A)   HO-01 Standards. The intent of the home occupation provisions is to
allow reasonable business practices within residential zoning districts.
Further, the intent is not to allow the loss of the residential district’s
character or function as a residential area or neighborhood. To regulate
reasonable business practices and residential character, the following
standards apply to all home occupations:
      (1)   Any home occupation conducted in a dwelling must:
         (a)   Not involve retail business or manufacturing business;
         (b)   Not involve the employment of any more than one person who will
work at the location of the home occupation;
         (c)   Utilize at least one members of the immediate family residing on
the premises;
         (d)   Not include the use of any mechanical equipment, other than what
is usual for purely domestic or hobby purposes;
         (e)   Not involve any exterior storage or display of equipment or
materials used in connection with the home occupation; and
         (f)   Not utilize more than 25% of the total floor area of any one
story including the space in garages and storage areas.
      (2)   There shall not be any exterior, structural or aesthetic
alterations to the dwelling unit to accommodate for the home occupation.
      (3)   There shall not be any room additions or other structural/aesthetic
alterations that change the residential character of the dwelling unit.
      (4)   There shall not be an advertised entrance to the dwelling unit for
the purpose of conducting business or to accommodate the business.
      (5)   Traffic generation due to the business must not exceed what is
normal and acceptable in the residential district.
      (6)   Off-site signs shall not be permitted.
      (7)   No business practice, function, equipment, or process shall create
electrical interference, odors, noise, vibration, light, smoke, fumes, or any
thing offensive beyond the property line for the dwelling unit.
      (8)   No home occupation that demands enhancement to the water, gas,
septic, sewer, or electrical system shall be permitted even if stated as a
permitted use.
      (9)   No additional parking may be added to the existing dwelling unit
parking to accommodate for the home occupation.
      (10)   Use of commercial vehicles for pick-up and deliveries other than
from the U.S. Postal Service, UPS, and other express couriers is not permitted
when associated with the home occupation.
   (B)   Permitted and non-permitted home occupations.
      (1)   The permitted home occupations shall be of a personal service
nature limited to domestic crafts and professional service, including but not
limited to:
         (a)   Dressmaking;
         (b)   Sewing;
         (c)   Weaving;
         (d)   Tailoring;
         (e)   Ironing;
         (f)   Washing;
         (g)   Custom home furnishings work;
         (h)   Carpentry work;
         (i)   Furniture repair;
         (j)   Hair grooming;
         (k)   Home office for a lawyer, doctor, architect, engineer,
accountant, or planner;
         (l)   Home office for a real estate, insurance, notary public, or
manufacturer’s agent;
         (m)   Office for clergy;
         (n)   Art studio, writing studio, music studio, photography studio;
         (o)   Teaching art, writing, or music for one student at one time; and
         (p)   Child care for five or less children at one time.
      (2)   The following types of business shall not be permitted as home
occupations:
         (a)   Medical clinics of any kind;
         (b)   Retail dress shops;
         (c)   Funeral homes;
         (d)   Tourist homes;
         (e)   Animal hospitals;
         (f)   Kennels;
         (g)   Trailer rentals;
         (h)   Automobile, motor vehicles, equipment repair of any kind;
         (i)   Painting of automobiles, motor vehicles, or equipment of any
kind;
         (j)   Photo developing;
         (k)   Television, radio or other electronics repair;
         (l)   Tooling, welding, or machining of any kind;
         (m)   Retail or manufacturing of any kind;
         (n)   Tool or equipment rental of any kind;
         (o)   Restaurant or similar establishment;
         (p)   Salvage operations of any kind; and
         (q)   Freight or trucking operations of any kind.
      (3)   Uses not specifically mentioned will be interpreted by the Zoning
Administrator as to whether the use needs to be reviewed by the Plan
Commission.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.132 ADULT USE ORDINANCE (AU).
   AU-01 Adult Uses. Whereas, there is convincing documented evidence that
adult uses, as defined herein, because of their very nature, have a deleterious
effect on both existing businesses around them and the surrounding residential
areas adjacent to them, causing among other adverse secondary effects,
increased crime, reduction in business, and downgrading of property values; and
adult use businesses in the incorporated area of the town require special
supervision in order to protect and preserve the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the town; and zoning, licensing and other police power
regulations are legitimate reasonable means of accountability to insure the
operator of adult use businesses comply with reasonable regulations and that
adult use businesses are located in places which minimize the adverse secondary
effects which naturally accompany these establishments.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It is the purpose and intent of this section to
regulate adult use businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and
general welfare of the citizens of the town and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent any deleterious location and concentration of
adult use businesses within the town, thereby reducing or eliminating the
adverse secondary effects from such adult use businesses. It is not the intent
of this section to place any impermissible burden on any constitutionally
protected expression or expressive conduct. The provisions of this section have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this section to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment to the United States Constitution or the Indiana State Constitution,
or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of
this section to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, certain terms and words
are defined as follows:
      (1)   ADULT USE means any use of property as a “sexually oriented
enterprise” as defined below, any tattoo parlor, gambling casino, or any
activity that may be engaged in, or premises which may be entered onto, only by
persons at least 18 years old. Except, ADULT USE shall not include, any use
that falls within this definition only because it sells liquor under a permit
granted by the Indiana Alcoholic Beverages Commission pursuant to I.C. 7.1-3
(i.e. a liquor store, nightclub or bar that is not also used as a sexually
oriented enterprise, gambling casino or tattoo parlor).
      (2)   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY means:
         (a)   The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, male genitals,
female genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
         (b)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of
the female breast.
      (3)   PUBLIC BUILDING means any building owned, leased or held by the
United States, the State of Indiana, the Town of Leo-Cedarville, any special
district, school district, or any other agency or political subdivision of the
State or the United States, which building is used for governmental purposes.
      (4)   PUBLIC PARK or RECREATION AREA means public land which has been
designated for or is predominantly used for recreational activities including
but not limited to a park, playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir,
athletic field, basketball or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open
space, wilderness areas, or similar public land.
      (5)   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION means any church, synagogue, mosque, temple
or building that is used primarily for religious worship and related religious
activities.
      (6)   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE means any parcel or area zoned for
residential use or which is lawfully being used for single family dwelling, a
multi-family dwelling, duplex, townhouse, or mobile home, or campground.
      (7)   SCHOOL means any public or private educational facility including
but not limited to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, colleges and universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but
does not include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only
incidentally as a SCHOOL.
      (8)   SEMI-NUDE means a state of dress in which clothing covers no more
than the genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as
portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
      (9)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED ENTERPRISE means: any premises to which the
public, patrons or members are invited or admitted (including private clubs)
and wherein any service or product is provided or offered which is intended or
tends to arouse or excite the sexual desires of the public, patrons, members,
employees, or owners of the establishment or which involves a person or persons
who is/are nude or partially nude as defined within this section. The term
includes, but is not limited to the following: adult arcade, adult bookstore,
adult novelty shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, burlesque show, escort agency, massage parlor,
sexual encounter establishment, strip club, and nude model studio.
   (C)   Location of adult uses. Adult uses shall be allowed as a permitted use
only on property which is zoned C2. Adult uses shall be allowed only as special
exception uses on property which is zoned C1. Additionally, adult uses shall be
subject to the following restrictions: No adult use shall be established within
1,000 feet of another such business or within 1,000 feet of any religious
institution, school, boys-club, girls-club, or similar existing youth
organization, or public park or public building, or within 1,000 feet of any
property zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes.
   (D)   Measurement of distance. As regarding division (C) above, the distance
between any two adult uses, or between any adult use and any religious
institution, public or private elementary or secondary school, boys club, girls
club, or similar existing youth organization, or public park or public building
or any properties zoned for residential use or used for residential purposes
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects from the nearest point of the property line of the premises where
the adult use is conducted, to the nearest point of the property line of the
other premises.
   (E)   Advertising and lighting regulations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise the presentation
of any activity prohibited by applicable state statute or local ordinance.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a sexually
oriented enterprise to display or otherwise exhibit the materials and/or
performances at such sexually oriented enterprise in a manner which is visible
from the outside of the premises. No sign or outside advertising shall depict a
person or part of a person in a nude or semi-nude state or depict sexual
activity or simulations of sexual activity.
      (3)   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of all adult use
business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation with a
lighting system which provides an average horizontal illumination of one (1.0)
foot candle of light on the parking surface and walkways. This required
lighting level is established in order to provide sufficient illumination of
parking areas serving the adult use business for the personal safety of patrons
and employees and to reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct.
      (4)   Nothing contained within this section shall relieve the operator of
a sexually oriented business from complying with the other requirements of the
Town Zoning Code or other town ordinances relating to signs and lighting.
   (F)   Severability. If any provision of this section shall be held invalid,
such provision shall be deemed severable and the invalidity thereof shall not
affect the remaining provisions of this section.
   (G)   Repeal of prior ordinances. This section, from and after its effective
date, shall act as a repeal of any prior adult use ordinance or part of any
ordinance pertaining to the subjects contained in this section.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.133 LANDSCAPING STANDARDS (LS).
   (A)   LS-01: Foundation planting. Landscaping is an essential part in the
design and development of a site. Such plantings are a benefit to the
environment, public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of
the town. These standards will result in the reduction of storm water runoff,
glare, heat buildup, and will reduce energy costs in structures and improve the
aesthetics of the community. Construction of a new primary structure or
expansion of an existing primary structure by 30% or more in floor area must
follow the landscaping standards as outlined in this section. The minimum
requirement is as follows.
      (1)   All trees planted must be at least one and one-half inch caliper
trees.
      (2)   Any trees planted to meet the landscaping standards must be
replanted if the tree ever dies or becomes diseased within one year.
      (3)   Single family residential projects (except in the R4 District)
require a minimum of two deciduous canopy trees to be planted in the front yard
and one deciduous canopy tree to be planted in the side or rear yard of the
lot.
      (4)   Multiple family residential requires a minimum of one deciduous
canopy tree to be planted per three dwelling units. Plantings required for as
buffer yards or parking lot standards shall not be counted toward this minimum
landscaping requirement.
      (5)   Commercial/retail/office projects (except in the Downtown
Commercial District (DC)) require a minimum of one deciduous canopy tree or
ornamental tree to be planted per every 3000 square feet of commercial/retail/
office space. The minimum number of trees to be planted when the project is
less than 3000 is one tree. Plantings required for as buffer yards or parking
lot standards shall not be counted toward this minimum landscaping requirement.
      (6)   Industrial/manufacturing and similar uses are required to plant a
minimum of one deciduous canopy tree per 5000 square feet of floor space.
Plantings required for as buffer yards or parking lot standards shall not be
counted toward this minimum landscaping requirement.
   (B)   LS-02: General standards for landscaping.
      (1)   No landscaping materials, vegetation, plants, shrubs, trees,
retaining walls, bedding, lighting, or mounds may extend into any right-of-way
or easement without the written permission of the agency that established the
right-of-way or easement. Any landscaping items may be removed without notice
if within a right-of-way or easement even when permission has been granted by
the controlling agency to place said items.
      (2)   No trees may be planted within five feet of sidewalks, streets,
curbs, gutters, drainage tile, or other infrastructure, unless approved
otherwise by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The species of trees and plants for foundation plantings may be
subject to standards of the town. If a tree ordinance has been adopted by the
Town Council, said standards for species type will apply to all foundation
plantings.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.134 BUFFERING STANDARDS (BF).
   BF-01. A general purpose of zoning is to protect conflicting zoning
districts from being adjacent to one another. Periodically conflicting land
uses (zoning districts) are permitted or occur through normal growth and
development in a community. The need for buffer yard standards stems from the
periodic occurrence of two adjacent zoning districts conflicting or have the
potential of conflicting. The degree of conflict or potential conflict between
two zoning districts will determine the extent of buffer yard required. This
matrix determines the type of buffer yard which shall be installed by the
subject development. First find the zoning district of the subject property.
Second, find the zoning district of the adjacent property in the left column.
Where the two intersect on the matrix will be a letter (A, B, or C) or a blank
space. When there is a blank space no buffer yard is necessary. If an "A", "B",
or "C" is indicated in the matrix, a buffer yard is mandatory.
Adjacent District Zoning District of the Adjacent Property
                  R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 MP NC OC DC C1 C2 FP AG
Adjacent District Zoning District of the Adjacent Property
                  R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 MP NC OC DC C1 C2 FP AG
R1                            A  C  A  A     C  C
R2                            A  C  A  A     C  C
R3                            A  B  A  A     B  C
R4                               B           B  C
R5                               A           A  B
MP                                           A  B
NC                               A              A
OC                               A              A
DC                A  A  A  A     B
C1                               A
C2                               A
FP
AG
   A = an “A” Buffer Yard    B = a “B” Buffer Yard       C = a “C” Buffer Yard
   (A)   “A” Buffer yard standards. The following buffer yard standards will
apply where an “A” buffer yards is mandatory:
      (1)   The buffer yard standards only apply along the property lines where
the two conflicting zoning districts meet.
      (2)   The developer or owner of the subject property is responsible for
installing the buffer yard.
      (3)   The adjacent property owner shall not have to participate in
installing the buffer yard.
      (4)   An additional ten feet of setback shall be required in addition to
the normal setback.
      (5)   One deciduous canopy tree planted every 30 feet.
      (6)   All trees must be planted within five to 15 feet from the property
line and within the subject property.
      (7)   An irregular line or row of trees is preferred.
      (8)   All trees must have at least a one and one-half inch caliper, be
properly maintained, and be replaced if the tree dies, is diseased, or is
damaged from natural causes.
      (9)   A minimum of six feet of height of plant, tree, mound, or fence
material.
   (B)   “B” Buffer yard standards. The following buffer yard standards will
apply where a “B” buffer yard is mandatory.
      (1)   The buffer yard standards only apply along the property lines where
the two conflicting zoning districts meet.
      (2)   The developer or owner of the subject property is responsible for
installing the buffer yard.
      (3)   The adjacent property owner shall not have to participate in
installing the buffer yard.
      (4)   An additional 20 feet of setback shall be required in addition to
the normal setback.
      (5)   One deciduous canopy tree planted every 20 feet.
      (6)   All trees must be planted within five to 15 feet from the property
line and within the subject property.
      (7)   An irregular line or row of trees is preferred.
      (8)   All trees must have at least a one and one-half inch caliper, be
properly maintained, and be replaced if the tree dies, is diseased, or is
damaged from natural causes.
      (9)   A minimum of six feet of height of plant, tree, mound, or fence
material.
   (C)   “C” Buffer yard standards. The following buffer yard standards will
apply where a “C” buffer yard is mandatory.
      (1)   The buffer yard standards only apply along the property lines where
the two conflicting zoning districts meet.
      (2)   The developer or owner of the subject property is responsible for
installing the buffer yard.
      (3)   The adjacent property owner shall not have to participate in
installing the buffer yard.
      (4)   An additional 35 feet of setback shall be required in addition to
the normal setback.
      (5)   A double row of deciduous canopy trees must be planted 20 feet
apart and the two rows must be off-set to provide   maximum visual buffering.
      (6)   All trees must be planted within ten to 30 feet from the property
line and within the subject property.
      (7)   An irregular line or row of trees is preferred.
      (8)   All trees must have at least a one and one-half inch caliper, be
properly maintained, and be replaced if the tree dies, is diseased, or is
damaged from natural causes.
      (9)   A minimum of six feet of height of plant, tree, mound, or fence
material.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.135 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS (EN).
   EN-01. No land shall be used or structure erected where the land is
unsuitable for such use or structure due to slopes greater than 10%, adverse
soil or rock formation, erosion susceptibility, low percolation rate or bearing
strength, or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety,
prosperity, aesthetics, and general welfare of the community. In addition the
following standards must be met.
   (A)   Surface water. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any lot
or parcel of land developed for any use other than for agriculture to provide
for adequate surface water drainage. When possible, existing natural surface
drainage may be utilized. Whenever the evidence available indicates that the
natural surface drainage is inadequate the owner shall provide the parcel with
an adequate surface water system which shall be integrated into the drainage
pattern of surrounding properties. When the surface drainage is adequate,
easement for such surface drainage shall be provided. On-site detention shall
be required where necessary to prevent harm to adjoining properties.
   (B)   Drainage. Drainage swales (ditches) along dedicated roadways and
within the right-of-way or on dedicated drainage easements are not to be
altered, except for maintenance as originally constructed and as approved by
the County Highway Department, the Allen County Surveyor and/or Drainage Board,
Indiana Department of Transportation or the Leo-Cedarville Storm Water Utility
Board. Driveways may be constructed over these or other approved structures as
permitted by the appropriate agency.
   (C)   Permanent structures. No permanent structures other than a fence may
be erected, and if erected in violation of this section, no such structure may
be used if the location is within 75 feet of the center line of any legal tile
ditch, or within 75 feet of the existing top edge of any legal open ditch or
tile unless approved by the Allen County Drainage Board and the Leo-Cedarville
Plan Commission.
   (D)   Preservation of natural / historic features. Existing natural and
historic features which would add value to development of natural or man-made
assets of the county such as trees, streams, vistas, lakes, historical
landmarks, and similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved through
harmonious and careful design. Land to be developed shall be designed and
improved as far as practical in conformity to existing topography in order to
minimize storm water runoff, and conserve the natural cover and soil.
   (E)   Landscaping. Any part or portion of non-farm parcel which is not used
for structures, loading or parking spaces, sidewalks and accessory uses shall
be landscaped or left in a natural state. If landscaped, they shall be planted
with an all season ground cover and shall be landscaped with trees and shrubs
in accordance with the development plan and/or site plan and shall be in
keeping with natural surroundings.
   (F)   Cut / fill grade. No cut or fill grade shall exceed a slope of 3 to 1
or 33-1/3%. This provision shall apply to all cuts and fills exceeding 100
square feet in exposed surface area, including cuts or fills on land naturally
exceeding 3 to 1 in slope.
   (G)   Erosion prevention. All land, regardless of slope, from which
structures or natural cover has been removed or otherwise destroyed, shall be
appropriately graded and seeded within a reasonable time of such activity to
prevent erosion per acceptance of IDEM rule #5.
   (H)   Alterations to shoreline. No alteration of the shoreline or bed of a
river or public lake shall be made until written approval is obtained from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, U.S.Army Corps of Engineers or any
other governmental agency with jurisdiction of the shoreline in question, and
the provisions of this chapter are complied with. Alterations include, among
other things, retaining wall, filling of a river or wetlands, dredging of a
riverbed, and ditch excavation within one-half mile of a water body.
   (I)   Code compliance / hazardous waste. All development must be in
compliance with I.C. Title 7, as amended, as it relates to hazardous waste, low
level nuclear waste, underground storage tanks, waste tires, and other
applicable chapters of said Title.
   (J)   Code compliance / environmental quality. All development must be in
compliance with I.C. Title 13, as amended, as it relates to air pollution
control, water pollution control, solid waste management, and other applicable
chapters of said Title.
   (K)   Waste disposal. No waste materials such as garbage, rubbish, gasoline,
oil, flammables, soils, tars, chemicals, greases, industrial or agricultural
waste, or any other material of such nature, quantity, obnoxiousness, toxicity,
or temperature so as to contaminate, pollute, or harm the waters shall be
deposited, located, stored, or discharged on any lot in a way that would be
likely to runoff, seep, or wash into surface or ground water.
   (L)   Fuel storage. No highly flammable or explosive liquids, solids, or
gasses specified by the State Fire Marshal shall be stored in bulk above
ground, except tanks or drums of fuel connected directly with energy devises or
heating appliances located and operated on the same lot as the tanks or drums
of fuel.
   (M)   Debris / refuse. Debris and refuse shall not accumulate on any
property, in any zoning district.
   (N)   Treatment of fill. Bricks, concrete, lumber, and other material used
for fill where permitted by this chapter and/or by the IDEM, DNR, or other
governmental agency, shall be promptly covered and seeded.
   (O)   View requirements. Where a proposed structure will eliminate more than
50% of an adjacent structure’s view or exposure to the sun, an additional yard
area setback may be required by the Zoning Administrator so that the 50% view
or exposure may be maintained.
   (P)   Improvement location permit requirements. The following activities are
permitted with no improvement location permit required, provided all other
applicable standards are met:
      (1)   Normal excavation for structural foundations, driveways, utility
installations, and similar preparation activities;
      (2)   Normal plowing and preparing the land for gardens and yards;
      (3)   Normal trimming and/or removal of trees and shrubs for maintenance
and/or site preparation;
      (4)   Earth movements related to farming and other agricultural activity,
including sod farming;
      (5)   Public and private road construction;
      (6)   Drain tile laying and ditch cleaning; and
      (7)   Top soil removal, other than mineral extraction.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.136 LIGHTING STANDARDS (LG).
   LG-01. In all Multifamily, Commercial, and Industrial zoning districts,
construction of any parking or driving areas requires the developer/owner to
provide a level of illumination on individual lots which is adequate for safe
and efficient movement of vehicle and persons. The level of illumination
required shall follow the standard set forth in the Allen County Highway
Department Standards Manual. In the absence of such standard, the level of
required illumination shall be determined by the Town Engineer. The cost of
determining the required level of illumination shall be born by the applicant
for the ILP or Development Plan. Illumination levels will vary according to the
type of use on a lot. The intensity of light created on any site shall not
significantly go beyond the property line of the subject property. The Leo-
Cedarville Zoning Code hereby adopts by reference as if fully incorporated
herein the Allen County Highway Department Manual pertaining to lighting except
to the extent that those standards expressly conflict with a standard otherwise
set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.137 PARKING STANDARDS (PK).
   (A)   PK-01. Two off-street parking spaces are required per dwelling unit.
Neither of the off-street parking spaces required may include spaces within car
ports or garages. Further, off-street parking spaces may not fully or partially
be in a public right-of-way or utility easement. Each space must be at least
nine feet wide and 18 feet long. Except in agricultural zoned districts, all
required parking spaces together with driveways, and other circulation areas,
shall be dust-free and of a hard-surface with a pavement having an asphalt or
concrete binder, such as concrete, asphalt, double chip and seal, or paver
bricks provided; however, that variances for parking related to school
auditoriums, assembly areas, sports fields, and other community meeting or
recreation areas may be granted, provided that paved areas shall be provided
for daily-use parking areas. Where paving is not required, proper dust control
measures shall be undertaken and maintained.
   (B)   PK-02. One and one-half off-street parking spaces are required per
dwelling unit. In multi-family housing developments, at least one space per two
units is required for visitor parking. Visitor parking spaces cannot include
spaces in car ports or garages. Further, any off-street parking space may not
fully or partially be in a public right-of-way or utility easement. Each space
must be at least nine and one-half feet wide and 19 feet long.
   (C)   PK-03. All parking lots for commercial, industrial, business, public
and private employee parking, offices, organizations, and places of assembly
must be paved. In addition, these parking lots must also conform to all the
following requirements:
      (1)   All ingress/egress into parking areas must be paved with asphalt,
concrete or other durable material;
      (2)   Be striped so as to show each parking space;
      (3)   Be constructed to allow proper drainage;
      (4)   Be designed as to prevent vehicles from having to back into public
streets;
      (5)   Be designed to not allow any ingress or egress closer than 35 feet
of any intersecting street or alley right-of-way;
      (6)   Handicap parking to be provided in accordance with Allen County
Highway Department manual and ADA requirements; and
      (7)   Minimum design standards for parking lots.
 
                                       Drives & Service Areas Parking Only
Rigid Pavement (plain cement concrete) 6"                     5"
Deep Strength Asphalt                  8"                     6"
Flexible Type Pavement
a. Aggregate Base                      10"                    8"
b. Asphalt Binder                      3"                     3"
c. Asphalt Surface                     1"                     1"
 
   (D)   PK-04. To reduce traffic congestion and hazards along roadways, off-
street parking shall be required for business and industrial uses. The minimum
number of parking spaces shall be determined by adding up the spaces required
for each applicable statement below:
      (1)   One parking space per employee that potentially can be working at
any given time;
      (2)   One parking space for every three chairs/seats in a restaurants,
food services, movie theatre, auditorium, or church;
      (3)   One parking space per 500 square feet of gross floor area in all
furniture stores and automobile sales establishments;
      (4)   One parking space per 400 square feet of gross floor area in all
hardware stores, home improvement stores, and community centers;
      (5)   One parking space per 200 square feet of gross floor area in all
fitness, health spa, entertainment facility, skating rink or similar
facilities;
      (6)   One parking space per every 300 square feet of gross floor area in
all convenience stores, gasoline stations, grocery stores, banks, and
department stores;
      (7)   One parking space per every ten pupils enrolled in a day-care
facility;
      (8)   One parking space per sleeping unit in a hotel, motel, or bed and
breakfast;
      (9)   Ten parking spaces are required per nine holes at any golf course
and miniature golf course;
      (10)   Additional parking spaces may be required by the Planning
Commission, or the Zoning Administrator;
      (11)   Handicap parking to be provided in accordance by Allen County
Highway Department manual and ADA requirements; and
      (12)   If the business or industrial use does not fit in the above
categories or uses, then the appropriate number of parking places will be
determined by the Plan Commission or the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   PK-05. Parking spaces shall be installed as follows:
      (1)   Maximum of 20% in each front yard;
      (2)   Maximum of 70% in both side yards combined; and
      (3)   Maximum of 100% in rear yard.
   (F)   (1)   Parking spaces prescribed in this rule must be located either on
the premises or on a lot approved by the Plan Commission. All required off-
street parking spaces, however, must be located within 600 feet of the
respective lot.
      (2)   A group of adjacent properties may provide a joint parking area if
the number of spaces required for all properties is adequate, and at least 80%
of the total spaces required for each use. A permanent documentation of the
agreement must be recorded with both properties. The Zoning Administrator shall
approve aggregate parking lots such as mentioned above.
      (3)   A church or temple or like uses may request to the Commission a
down-sizing of parking requirements if adequate parking is located near the use
and available during the times of use by the church or temple.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.138 LOADING STANDARDS (LD).
   LD-01. There shall be provided off-street loading berths not less than the
minimum requirements specified in this section in connection with any building
or structure which is to be erected or substantially altered, and which
requires the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or
similar vehicles.
   (A)   Location. All required off-street loading berths shall be located on
the same lot as the use to be served, and no portion of the vehicle shall
project into a street or alley. No permitted or required loading berth shall be
located within 25 feet of the nearest point of intersection of any two streets,
nor shall it be located in a required front yard, or side yard adjoining a
street.
   (B)   Size. Off-street loading berths for over-the-road tractor-trailers
shall be at least 14 feet in width by at least 60 feet in length with a 60 foot
maneuvering apron, and shall have a vertical clearance of at least 15 feet. For
local pick-up and delivery trucks, off-street loading berths shall be at least
12 feet in width by at least 30 feet in length with a 30 foot maneuvering
apron, and shall have a vertical clearance of at least 12 feet.
   (C)   Access. Each required off-street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movements.
   (D)   Surfacing. All open off-street loading berths shall be improved with a
rigid type pavement (plain cement concrete) seven inches, deep strength asphalt
nine inches, flexible pavement - aggregate base 14 inch - asphalt binder three
inches - asphalt surface one inch.
   (E)   Space allowed. Space allowed to any off-street loading berth shall
not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements of any off-
street parking areas or portions thereof.
   (F)   Off-street loading berth requirements.
 
Minimum Loading Berths Required Gross Floor Area
1                            up to 40,000 sq. ft.
2                            40,000 to 79,999 sq.ft.
3                            80,000 to 119,999 sq.ft.
4                            120,000 to 159,999 sq.ft.
5                            160,000 to 239,999 sq.ft.
6                               240,000 to 319,999 sq.ft.
 
      One additional off-street loading space shall be required for each
additional 80,000 sq. ft. after 320,000 sq. ft.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.139 ENTRANCE/DRIVES STANDARDS (ED).
   (A)   As per Allen County Highway Department Manual. The Leo-Cedarville
Zoning Ordinance hereby adopts the standards contained in the Allen County
Highway Department Manual pertaining to entrance drives except to the extent
that those standards expressly conflict with a standard otherwise set forth in
this chapter.
   (B)   ED-01. The intent of entrance and drive standards is to provide for a
safe and efficient vehicular and pedestrian transportation system. The
following standards apply to curb cuts, entrances, and drives:
      (1)   No curb cut, entrance, or drive shall be permitted within:
         (a)   One hundred twenty feet of an intersection of two or more roads
in which the largest of the roads is a major thoroughfare;
         (b)   One hundred feet of an intersection of two or more roads in
which the largest of the roads is a minor thoroughfare;
         (c)   Eighty feet of an intersection of two or more roads in which the
largest of the roads is a major collector;
         (d)   Sixty feet of an intersection of two or more   roads in which
the largest of the roads is a minor collector; or
         (e)   Fifty feet of an intersection of two or more roads in which the
largest of the roads is a local road.
   (The distances for the above standards shall be determined by measuring from
center line of a curb cut, entrance, or drive to the center line of the nearest
intersecting road.)
      (2)   No curb cut, entrance, or drive shall be permitted within:
         (a)   One hundred forty feet of the apex of a curve (30 degrees or
greater) and where the road is a major thoroughfare;
         (b)   One hundred twenty feet of the apex of a curve (30 degrees or
greater) and where the road is a minor thoroughfare;
         (c)   One hundred feet of the apex of a curve (30 degrees or greater)
and where the road is a major collector;
         (d)   Eighty feet of the apex of a curve (30 degrees or greater) and
where the road is a minor collector; or
         (e)   Seventy feet of the apex of a curve (30 degrees or greater) and
where the road is a local road.
      (3)   All curb cuts, entrances or drives shall not exceed the following
pavement widths for two-way traffic (if one-way, the measurements shall be one-
half of the below measurements):
         (a)   Thirty-two feet if from a commercial zoning district onto a
major thoroughfare;
         (b)   Thirty feet if from a commercial zoning district onto a minor
thoroughfare;
         (c)   Twenty-eight feet if from a commercial zoning district onto a
major collector;
         (d)   Twenty-six feet if from a commercial zoning district onto a
minor collector;
         (e)   Twenty-four feet if from a commercial zoning district onto a
local street;
         (f)   Thirty feet if from a multi-family residential zoning district
onto a major thoroughfare, minor thoroughfare, or major collector;
         (g)   Twenty-eight feet if from a multi-family residential zoning
district onto a minor collector or local street;
         (h)   Twenty-eight feet if from a single-family residential zoning
district onto a any type of street; or
         (i)   Twenty-two feet if from a single-family residential unit onto
any type of street.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may determine if:
         (a)   An acceleration or deceleration lane is necessary; or
         (b)   A passing blister is necessary as a condition of a new curb cut,
entrance, or drive.
      (5)   Except in agricultural zoned districts, all required entrance
drives, together with parking lots, and other circulation areas, shall be dust-
free and of a hard-surface with a pavement having an asphalt or concrete
binder, such as concrete, asphalt, double chip and seal, or paver bricks
provided; however, that variances for parking related to school auditoriums,
assembly areas, sports fields, and other community meeting or recreation areas
may be granted, provided that paved areas shall be provided for daily-use
parking areas. Where paving is not required, proper dust control measures shall
be undertaken and maintained.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.140 VISION CLEARANCE STANDARDS (VC).
   VC-01: The intent of vision clearance standards is to provide for a safe
vehicular and pedestrian transportation system. The visibility at
intersections, driveways, curb cuts, and entrances are particularly important
for the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians. The following vision
clearance standards apply to all intersections, drive, curb cuts, and
entrances.
   (A)   No entrance, curb cut, or drive shall be permitted if within:
      (1)   One hundred sixty feet of the crest of a hill where the slope on
either side of the crest is 6% or greater, or the visibility is determined to
be impaired by the Zoning Administrator, and the speed limit is 45 mph or
greater.
      (2)   One hundred feet of the crest of a hill where the slope on either
side of the crest is 6% or greater, or the visibility is determined to be
impaired by the Zoning Administrator, and the speed limit is 30 mph or greater.
      (3)   Eighty feet of the crest of a hill where the slope on either side
of the crest is 6% or greater, or the visibility is determined to be impaired
by the Zoning Administrator, and the speed limit is under 30 mph.
   (B)   All intersections must maintain a clear vision triangle where no
primary or accessory structures, trees, vegetation, or signs other that road
signs are allowed to be placed or to project into. The clear vision triangle is
illustrated below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1251.png]
The following triangle leg lengths will apply to the determinati on of a clear
vision triangle.
      (1)   Along major thoroughfares 45 feet;
      (2)   Along minor thoroughfares 40 feet;
      (3)   Along major collectors 35 feet;
      (4)   Along minor collectors 30 feet; and
      (5)   Along local roads 20 feet.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.141 BUILDING STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Allen County Building Code, which is
codified as Article 6 of the Code of Allen County, Indiana adopted by Allen
County pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-8-3 and I.C. 36-7-8-7. Unless
otherwise provided for in this code, the provisions of the Allen County
Building Ordinance shall constitute the building standards for all construction
within the Town of Leo-Cedarville.
   (B)   The town hereby appoints the Allen County Building Department as its
agent for inspecting and approving all construction within the town for
purposes of insuring compliance with the county building standards. The Allen
County Building Commission shall be entitled to collect and retain from the
property owner, builder, developer, or ILP application its customary fee for
such inspection services and for issuing building permits, certificates of
occupancy and other related permits, provided such fees are reasonable and
otherwise allowed by Indiana law.
   (C)   Copies of the Allen County Building Code are maintained at the town
office for public inspection.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.142 HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Allen County Health Code, which is codified
as Article 10 of the Code of Allen County, Indiana. Unless otherwise provided
for in this Zoning Code, the provisions of the Allen County Health Code shall
constitute the health and safety standards for all uses or property within the
town.
   (B)   The town hereby appoints the Allen County Health Commissioner and the
Allen County Health Department as its agent for inspecting and approving all
private sewer systems, swimming pools and other uses within the town for
purposes of insuring compliance with the County Health Standards. The Allen
County Health Department shall be entitled to collect and retain from the
property owner, builder of ILP applicant its customary fee for such inspection
services provided that such fees are reasonable and otherwise allowed by
Indiana law.
   (C)   Copies of the Allen County Building Code are maintained at the town
office for public inspection.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.143 FENCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Set-back. Fences must maintain a two-foot set back from any property
line and may not be constructed within the public right-of-way or within any
utility easement. The granting of an ILP does not mean that no easement is
present. The Zoning Administrator is not responsible for locating easements,
rather the property owner is responsible for determining the existence of
easement rights on the subject property. A fence built over a utility or other
easement may be torn down by the easement holder, and the cost of repairing the
fence will be the sole responsibility of the fence owner.
   (B)   Agricultural use. Fences of any height are permitted.
   (C)   Residential use. 
      (1)   Fences or wall, constructed within a rear yard shall not be higher
than eight feet. All fences are considered an accessory use. Fence setbacks
shall be two feet unless the permit is accompanied by a letter from adjoining
property owners agreeing to allow the fence to be placed closer to the agreed
property line.
      (2)   No fence, wall, or hedge shall rise over three feet in height on
any required front yard. No fence, wall, or hedge planting shall interfere with
visibility from a driveway or public right-of-way. The Town Manager is hereby
empowered to cause all obstructions to be removed in the interest of public
safety.
      (3)   All support structures shall face to the inside side of fence.
   (D)   Industrial use. Fences up to eight feet in height are permitted as
long as they do not obstruct the view of motor vehicles.
   (E)   Correction of violation. Any person found in violation of this chapter
shall be given one written notice to correct such unlawful condition with a
reasonable time allowed for the correction. If the correction is not made
within the stated reasonable time, the Town Council may order the correction
made by others, and the cost of such correction shall be charged to the
property owner or other found to have caused the violation. In addition to the
cost to correct such violation, a penalty of not less than $25 nor more than
$1,000 may be imposed. A separate offense may be deemed committed for each day
such violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
   (F)   Pool fences and enclosures. See §
152.144.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.144 SWIMMING POOL STANDARDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A POOL is any constructed POOL or portable private POOL used for
swimming, wading or bathing, over 36 inches in depth of water or with a top
water surface area exceeding 400 square feet and which is used or intended to
be used as a POOL in connection with a family dwelling unit and is available
only to the family of the household and their private guests.
   (B)   All portable pools of less than 36 inches in depth of water or less
than 400 square feet of top water surface area shall be exempt from the
requirements of this section.
   (C)   No person shall construct or install a pool without having first
applied for and obtained Plan Commission or Town Administrator approval. Such
application shall be accomplished by plans and specifications in duplicate and
in sufficient detail showing:
      (1)   Pool dimensions;
      (2)   Type construction; and
      (3)   Pool fencing.
   (D)   All pools are to be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (E)   State of Indiana swimming pool requirements:
      (1)   A residential pool shall be provided with a suitable handhold
around its perimeter in areas where depths exceed three feet six inches.
Handholds shall be provided no further apart than four feet and shall consist
of any one or a combination of items listed as follows:
         (a)   Ledge or deck along the immediate top edge of the pool which
provides a slip-resisting surface of at least four inches minimum horizontal
width and located at or not more than 12 inches above the waterline;
         (b)   Ladders, stairs, or seat ledges; and/or
         (c)   A secured rope or railing placed at or not more than 12 inches
above the waterline;
      (2)   Rope anchor devices shall be installed at a minimum of one foot and
a maximum of two feet on the shallow end side of a point of change in floor
slope. In pools where the slope change occurs in water depths less than four
feet six inches, a transition rope supported by buoys shall be installed.
      (3)   Access to residential pools shall be restricted by one of the
following means:
         (a)   Walls or fencing not less than five feet high and completely
surrounding the pool and deck area with the exception of self-closing and
latching gates and doors, both capable of being locked;
         (b)   Other means not less than five feet high and deemed impenetrable
by the enforcing authority at the time of construction and completely
surrounding the pool and deck area when the pool is not in use;
         (c)   A combination of subdivision (a) and (b) that completely
surrounds the pool and deck with the exception of self-closing and latching
gates and doors which are capable of being locked. This applies to subdivisions
(a) and (b) and this subdivision (c) only;
         (d)   A power safety pool cover which shall:
            1.   Provide a continuous connection between the cover and the
deck, so as to prohibit access to the pool when the cover is completely drawn
over the pool;
            2.   Be mechanically operated by a key or key and switch such that
the cover cannot be drawn open or retracted without the use of a key;
            3.   Is installed with track, rollers, rails, guides, or other
accessories necessary to accomplish divisions (E)(3)(d)1. and 2. above, in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions; and
            4.   Bear an identification tag indicating that the cover satisfies
the requirements of ASTM F1346 for power safety pool covers.
         (e)   Not less than the following lifesaving equipment shall be
installed with each residential swimming pool:
            1.   A ring or throwing buoy fitted with 40 feet of one-fourth inch
diameter line;
            2.   A pole not less than 12 feet in length; and
            3.   Access to a telephone.
(Ord. passed - - )
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 152.155 PD DISTRICT INTENT, PERMITTED USES, AND MISCELLANEOUS STANDARDS.
   (A)   District intent.
      (1)   The purposes of these regulations are to provide greater design
flexibility in the development of land when consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan and intent of the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Control Ordinance. The
use of planned development zoning classifications shall be encouraged when the
use of such regulations promotes a harmonious variety of uses, provides for an
economy of shared services and facilities, are compatible with surrounding
areas and/or foster the creation of attractive, healthful, efficient and stable
environments for living, shopping or working.
      (2)   The planned development regulations and procedures may apply to the
development of existing developed lands, or vacant lands. Further, these
regulations only apply to large tracts of land (over 20 acres).
      (3)   Planned development regulations are intended to encourage
innovations in land development techniques so that the growing demands of the
community may be met with greater flexibility, variety in type, design and
layout of sites and buildings. Also, planned development projects should also
encourage a more efficient use of land so that resulting economies may accrue
to the benefit of thecommunity at large. Examples of this concept would include
the preservation of existing trees or wetlands, and the inclusion of recreation
areas within new subdivisions.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses are subject to the discretion and approval of the Plan
Commission and Town Council. No uses are granted by right.
      (2)   In general the uses that will be allowed in a planned development
are uses designated as permitted uses or special exceptions in the zoning
district prior to being changed to a planned development district. For example
if the previous zoning was R2 and the proposed planned development district
would be PD-R2, the permitted uses and special exceptions in the R2 District
would generally be appropriate.
      (3)   All other land uses will be reviewed and considered carefully by
the Plan Commission. All land uses proposed in a PD must be nonconflicting and
in the spirit of the previous zoning district and surrounding land uses and
zoning districts.
   (C)   Special exception uses.
      (1)   Minimum land area - 20 acres to qualify for any PD.
      (2)   Minimum overall lot frontage - 300 feet on a public street with
access from said public street.
      (3)   Maximum lot coverage - Square feet of all primary and secondary
structures, and impervious surface cannot exceed 65% of the lot area.
      (4)   Minimum floor area.
         (a)   Residential unit - 900 square feet.
         (b)   Commercial unit - 1200 square feet.
      (5)   Maximum floor area - Fabrication/manufacturing unit: 20,000 square
feet.
      (6)   Maximum structure height.
         (a)   40 feet for the primary structure.
         (b)   20 feet for accessory structures.
      (7)   Minimum open space.
         (a)   30% for residential based planned developments.
         (b)   10% for commercial based planned developments.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.156 GENERAL.
   Planned developments are a special district that can be petitioned for by a
land owner or developer. No zoning district shall be zoned for PD prior to a
petition to the Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.157 REZONING TO A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Planned development districts can only be created from the R2, R3, R4,
OC, C1, and C2 zoning districts. From each of these zoning districts (called
base zones once a petition for PD is submitted) only one planned development
district can be created once the development plans are approved by the Plan
Commission. They are:
      (1)   R2 can only be rezoned to PD-R2;
      (2)   R3 can only be rezoned to PD-R3;
      (3)   R4 can only be rezoned to PD-R4;
      (4)   OC can only be rezoned to PD-OC;
      (5)   C1 can only be rezoned to PD-C1; and
      (6)   C2 can only be rezoned to PD-C2.
   (B)   Other zoning districts can be rezoned directly to a PD District. A
petitioner may first ask that a property be rezoned to a zoning district that
allows PD Districts. Further, if a petitioner wants a PD district that is
different than the current base zone a successful rezoning request to change
the zoning district to the preferred base zone must first be accomplished.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.158 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT USES.
   Planned developments may contain mixed uses. Depending on the previous
zoning (i.e. R2 or C1) the maximum overall square footage allowed by type is as
follows:
 
Previous District New District Residential Commercial Manufacturing
R2                PD-R2        100%        15%        0%
R3                PD-R3        100%        20%        0%
R4                PD-R4        100%        40%        0%
OC                PD-OC        50%         70%        0%
C1                PD-C1        40%         100%       0%
C2                PD-C2        40%         100%       30%
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.159 ORIGINATION OF PROPOSALS.
   Any person or group of persons may propose a Planned Development District in
accordance with the procedures hereinafter established. Further, the person or
group of persons making such proposal intends to act as developer or sponsor of
the development. A parcel, or site proposed for a planned development need not
be under single ownership. However, if not under single ownership, the multiple
owners must have a contractual agreement to not developed separately, but in
accordance with a single, unitary plan, and in which the separate owners have
given their expressed intentions to enter into such private agreements and
assure its completion as planned to the satisfaction of the Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.160 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The general procedure for establishing a PD is as follows.
      (1)   Petitioner to meet informally with the Plan Commission to discuss
general concepts of the development and to make sure petitioner understands the
process. This step is optional but strongly encouraged.
      (2)   Petitioner develops the preliminary development plans and plat for
all land involved in the PD.
      (3)   Petitioner files for rezoning to the PD classification and submits
the preliminary development plan and plat to the Plan Commission.
      (4)   The Plan Commission will review the preliminary development plan
and then meet with the petitioner within 35 days to make comments.
      (5)   The petitioner will revise the plans (if necessary) and submit the
final development plan to the Plan Commission.
      (6)   The Plan Commission will schedule a public hearing for the rezoning
of the property and for review of the final development plan. The Plan
Commission will give a favorable or unfavorable recommendation to the Town
Council to grant the rezoning and final development plan.
      (7)   If the Plan Commission gives an unfavorable recommendation, the
petitioner may revise the final development plan and resubmit the information
or continue with the process with the Town Council with the unfavorable
decision of the Plan Commission.
      (8)   If the Plan Commission gives a favorable recommendation, the Town
Council will, at their following regularly scheduled meeting, review the
rezoning petition and final development plan and vote to approve or disapprove.
      (9)   If the Town Council disapproves the rezoning and final development
plan, the petitioner must wait one year before resubmitting another petition or
development plan.
      (10)   If the Town Council approves the rezoning and final development
plan, the land is officially rezoned and the petitioner may move forward with
the detailed plan approval process.
      (11)   The official zoning map must be amended to reflect the zoning
change, date of approval by the Town Council, and the Town Council petition
designation number.
      (12)   The petitioner shall submit the detailed plan 30 days prior to a
scheduled Plan Commission meeting for their review.
      (13)   When approved, the detailed plan will be stamped and signed by the
Plan Commission President and Secretary. The petitioner may begin site
development and procedures for building permits.
      (14)   All agreements shall be recorded as covenants with the County
Recorder and be clearly stated that they are enforceable by the Plan
Commission.
      (15)   Upon 100% completion of the development the public properties
shall be deeded over to the community as per agreements. Also, the Plan
Commission or representative(s) will review the completed project for
compliance to the agreement.
   (B)   Detailed descriptions of each general step outlined above are written
in more detail in the following sections.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.161 FILING PROCEDURE.
   The authorization of a planned development (PD) shall be subject to the
following procedures.
   (A)   First a petition for rezoning to the PD classification shall be
submitted. Said petition shall be signed by the owner or owners of all real
estate involved in the petition for the planned development, or shall have
attached thereto letters of consent to change to a PD classification by all
such owners prior to the filing.
   (B)   The petition shall include a preliminary development plan and plat for
any area proposed for development as a planned development. The petition,
preliminary development plan and plan shall be filed with the Plan Commission
for review at their next available, regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.162 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The following shall be included in the preliminary development plan:
      (1)   Proposed layout of streets, open space and other basic elements of
the plan;
      (2)   General description of, location of, and types of structures on the
site;
      (3)   Proposals for handling traffic, parking, sewage disposal, drainage,
tree preservation and removal, lighting, signage, landscaping, and other
pertinent development features;
      (4)   A separate location map, to scale, shall show the boundary lines of
adjacent land and the existing zoning of the area proposed to be developed as
well as the adjacent land;
      (5)   A general statement of the covenants to be made a part of the
planned development as well as the order and estimated time of development;
      (6)   A statement of the proposed order of development of the major
elements of the project, including whether the development will be in phases,
and, if so, the order and content of each phase; and
      (7)   The land use categories within the development, including proposed
densities of said uses.
   (B)   The preliminary development plan shall be presented to the planned
development sub-committee of the Plan Commission for their review and comment,
to a scale ratio not to exceed 100 feet = one inch. The preliminary plan may
include any additional graphics which will explain the features of the
development.
   (C)   Within 35 days after filing, the planned development sub-committee
shall consult with the petitioner regarding the petition and review all
comments. After such consultation the petitioner may make modifications to the
petition.
   (D)   After consultation with the planned development sub-committee and
after making any modifications to the proposed preliminary plans, the
petitioner shall file the proposed final development plan.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.163 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The final development plan shall:
   (A)   Include all documents included in the preliminary development plan, as
updated and/or amended;
   (B)   Include an index identifying all documents included in the preliminary
development plan;
   (C)   Include a cover sheet indicating that it is the final development plan
and indicating the date and case number; and
   (D)   Be bound together and all documents submitted on paper 8-1/2 x 11
inches in dimension, except for the maps, sketches, plans and conceptual plat
(s), which must be folded to 8-1/2 x 11 inches.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.164 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN HEARING.
   The petition, as modified, shall be reviewed by the Plan Commission. The
Commission may recommend approval, amendment, or disapproval of the plan and
may impose any reasonable condition(s) with a recommendation for approval. If
approval is recommended, the final development plan shall be stamped “Approved
Final Development Plan” and be signed by the President and Secretary of the
Plan Commission. Once recorded a copy of the recorded documents shall be
permanently retained in the office of the Commission.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.165 APPROVAL OF DETAILED PLAN.
   (A)   Before development can occur, the petitioner shall present to the Plan
Commission a detailed plan specifying the location, composition, and general
engineering features of all lots, drainage, sewage, water supply facilities,
recreation facilities, site perimeter treatment, landscape plan, and other site
development features including locations of proposed buildings. The Commission
shall then approve, amend, or disapprove said detailed plans by motion, upon an
affirmative finding that the detailed plan is consistent with the approved
final development plan. Having so approved the detailed plan, the Commission
shall have no further authority to review or act thereon, except as to
enforcement, or the review of an amendatory ordinance, or as hereafter provided
for.
   (B)   The approved detailed plan shall be stamped “Approved Detailed Plan”
and be signed by the President and Secretary of the Plan Commission with one
copy permanently retained in the office of the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Approval of the detailed plan shall be obtained within one year of the
adoption of the approved final development plan.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator may from time to time approve minor
modifications of the approved detailed plan in a manner consistent with the
approved final development plan. Such modifications shall not include any
increase in density, any reduction in aesthetic treatments, any alteration of
frontage or general building location, any change in type of use, or any change
in access points.
   (E)   The approved final development plan may provide for development of the
property in phases. If such phasing is included as a part of the approval of
the final development plan, the petitioner may submit partial detailed plans
which correspond to the phases involved. Such partial detailed plans, when
approved, shall be treated in the same manner as approved detailed plans for an
entire planned development.
   (F)   Approval of the detailed plan shall expire after a period of two years
from the approved phasing of the final development plan unless the development
is 75% complete in terms of public improvements including streets, parks,
walkways, utility installations and sanitary sewers or is consistent with the
approved phasing schedule. Determination of the amount of completion shall be
made by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.166 COVENANTS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Covenants, when required by the Plan Commission, shall be set forth in
detail. Furthermore, covenants shall provide for a provision for the release of
such restriction by execution of a document so stating and suitable for
recording signatures of the Commission President and Secretary upon
authorization by the Commission and signatures of all the owners of property in
the area involved in the
petition for whose benefit the covenant was created. Such covenants shall
provide that their benefits be specifically enforceable by the Commission. An
executed recorded copy shall be provided to and maintained in the Plan
Commission office.
   (B)   The Commission shall require the recording of covenants by the Allen
County Recorder for any reasonable public or semi-public purpose, including,
but not limited to, the allocation of land by the petitioner for public
thoroughfares, parks, schools, recreational facilities, and other public and
semi-public purposes, as part of the platting process or via an other suitable
legal instrument.
   (C)   The Commission may require the recording of covenants based upon the
approved detailed plan for any other reasonable purpose, including but not
limited to, imposing development standards. Such development standards may
include, but are not limited to, requirements as to the following:
      (1)   Lot area;
      (2)   Floor area;
      (3)   Ratios of floor space to land space;
      (4)   Area in which structures may be built (“Buildable area”);
      (5)   Open space;
      (6)   Setback lines and minimum rear yards;
      (7)   Building separations;
      (8)   Height of structures;
      (9)   Signs;
      (10)   Off-street parking and loading space;
      (11)   Design standards; and
      (12)   Phasing of development.
   (D)   The petitioner shall be required to provide financial assurance for
the satisfactory installation of all public facilities in the form of bonds or
such other assurances as are required in the normal procedures of platting
pursuant to the provisions of the Subdivision Ordinance.
   (E)   Adequate provision shall be made for a private organization (i.e.,
Homeowners Associations) with direct responsibility to, and control by, the
property owners involved to provide for the operation
and maintenance of all common facilities if such facilities are a part of the
planned development, and, in such instance legal assurances shall be provided
which show that the private organization is self-perpetuating.
   (F)   All common facilities not dedicated to the public shall be maintained
by the aforementioned private organization in such a manner that adequate
access is provided at all times to vehicular traffic so that fire, police,
health, sanitation, and public utility vehicles can serve the properties
contiguous or adjacent thereto, and so that said vehicles will have adequate
turning area. All streets and roadways not dedicated to the public shall be
operated and maintained at no expense to any governmental unit.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.167 RECORDING.
   (A)   All approved detailed plans, covenants, commitments, plats, and
modifications thereof shall be recorded in the office of the Allen County
Recorders Office within 60 days after approval.
   (B)   Where upon completion of all development, the exact measurements, as
to the location of buildings, roads, infrastructure, and structures erected
during the development, are deemed desirable for public record by recording,
the developer will submit a copy of the “Approved Detailed Plan” with the exact
measurements. Once verified by the Plan Commission that the exact measurements
are substantially the same as indicated on the original approved detailed plan,
the Plan Commission shall reapprove, date and sign said amended approved
detailed plan, which the developer may then record.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.168 PERMITS.
   An improvement location permit shall be issued for all improvements proposed
by the planned development with full compliance to the approved detailed plan
once the plans have been recorded and two copies have been provided to the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.169 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No construction or installation work shall commence on any public
improvements until satisfactory plans and specifications have been submitted to
the Plan Commission and until the petitioner provides, at least 48 hours in
advance, notice to the Town Engineer having jurisdiction of the public
facility, in order that inspections may be made as the work progresses.
   (B)   All development shall be in conformity with the approved detailed plan
and any material deviations from the approved detailed plan shall be subject to
appropriate enforcement action
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.170 EXTENSION, ABANDONMENT, EXPIRATION.
   (A)   An extension, not to exceed 12 months, for accomplishing any matters
set forth within this subchapter, may be granted by the Plan Commission for
good cause shown.
   (B)   Upon the abandonment of a development authorized under this section
(abandonment shall be deemed to have occurred when no or minimal improvements
have been made pursuant to the approved detailed plan for nine consecutive
months), or upon the expiration of three years from the approval of the
detailed plan for a development which has not been completed, the land will
revert to the base zoning district. The Plan Commission may grant up to a 12
month extension. If an extension for expiration is granted such extension shall
be recorded.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.171 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   All proceedings brought under this section shall be subject to the rules of
procedure of the Plan Commission, where not described otherwise herein.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.172 LIMITATION OF REZONING.
   Any initiative of the Plan Commission to amendment the Zoning Ordinance or
Subdivision Control Ordinance, and that would affect an approved planned
development before its completion, shall not be enforced on the planned
development. Only in the case that the planned development is no longer in
conformity with the approved detailed plan or is not proceeding in accordance
with the time requirements imposed herein or by agreement, will the new
amendments of the Zoning Ordinance or Subdivision Control Ordinance apply.
(Ord. passed - - )
DEVELOPMENT PLANS
§ 152.185 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1400 et. seq.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.186 DESIGNATION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following zoning districts are hereby designated as districts in
which development plans are required:
      (1)   R5   Multifamily Housing;
      (2)   MP   Mobile Home Park;
      (3)   NC   Neighborhood Commercial;
      (4)   OC   Office Commercial/Overlay;
      (5)   DC   Downtown Commercial;
      (6)   C1   General Commercial; and
      (7)   C2   Utility/Light Industrial.
   (B)   Unless a waiver is granted under§
152.190 of this subchapter, no improvement location permit (ILP) may be issued,
and no improvement may be constructed in any of these designated districts
until the Plan Commission has approved both a primary and a secondary
development plan for the entire tract in which the improvements are to be
located.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.187 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Under the authority of I.C. 36-7-4-1403(d), the design and improvement
standards set forth in §§
151.075 through
151.081,
151.095 through
151.106,
151.120, and
151.121 of the Subdivision Control Ordinance are incorporated herein by
reference. All new developments within a development plan district, shall meet
the corresponding requirements. Where necessary the term “development” shall be
substituted for the term “subdivision” and the term “development plan” shall be
substituted for the terms “subdivision plat” or “plat.”
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.188 PROCEDURE FOR FILING DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Application for development plan approval.
      (1)   The developer shall have a meeting to consult informally with the
Zoning Administrator for advice and assistance before filing the application
for a primary, secondary development plan. At this
meeting, the developer should submit a conceptual layout of the plan for
review. The Zoning Administrator may, at this meeting, or at anytime
thereafter, determine whether any waivers should be granted under §
152.190 of this subchapter. The Zoning Administrator may schedule additional
meetings, request additional information, or seek input from any interested
governmental or quasi-public agencies before making a determination regarding
whether the requirement of a development plan may be waived.
      (2)   When the developer wishes to pursue the plan, he shall complete the
requirements listed below and application and submit 12 copies of the proposed
plan, and application to the Zoning Administrator along with the appropriate
fees. No application shall be accepted until all items detailed below have been
completed and executed by the person proposing the development, or his
designee. The Zoning Administrator shall have 15 normal working days from the
date of submission to determine whether there are any deficiencies with the
application and development plan. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant of any deficiencies and allow the applicant an opportunity to amend
the application and/or plan. The development plan shall be placed on the agenda
of the first regular meeting of the Plan Commission that is at least 15 days
after the Zoning Administrator has determined that there are no remaining
deficiencies with the application and plan.
   (B)   Notice of public hearing.
      (1)   After the Zoning Administrator has set the date for a public
hearing before the Commission, the Zoning Administrator shall prepare a notice
of public hearing. The notice must be published one time in the East Allen
County Courier and once in the Fort Wayne Newspapers. The legal notice shall
appear in the newspaper at least ten days prior to the date of the public
hearing, and the cost of the notice shall be charged to the developer. A proof
of publication shall be retained by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   A notice of public hearing, prepared by the Zoning Administrator,
via certified, return-receipt mail to the property owners shall be sent by the
petitioner at the expense of the petitioner to all property owners within 300
feet of the boundaries of the property to be subdivided or developed ten full
days prior to the date of the public hearing.
      (3)   Legal notices shall include the following:
         (a)   The general location, in words and by map, of the proposed
subdivision and a legal description of the land contained therein;
         (b)   That the development plan is available for examination at the
town office;
         (c)   That a public hearing will be held giving the date, place, and
hour of the hearing; and
         (d)   Written comments on the plan will be accepted prior to the
public hearing and must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for the Plan
Commission.
      (4)   Legal notices shall comply with I.C. 5-3-1.
      (5)   Proofs of publication, receipts of mailing, or proofs of mailing
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator two normal working days prior to
the date of the public hearing.
      (6)   Names and addresses of owners of property within 300 feet of the
subdivision site shall be presented to the Zoning Administrator at the time the
development plan application is filed.
   (C)   Primary plan approval.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall review the development plan to determine
whether the proposed development is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan;
satisfies the development requirements specified in the Zoning Ordinance; and
satisfies the development standards required by §
152.187 of this subchapter.
      (2)   After the Plan Commission has reviewed the primary development plan
and heard testimony submitted at the public hearing, the Plan Commission, at
the public hearing or a regularly scheduled meeting in the future, shall
approve or disapprove the primary development plan or continue to allow time
for amendments. The Commission shall notify the applicant in writing of its
decision.
      (3)   If the Plan Commission determines that the primary development plan
complies with the standards set forth in this chapter, it shall make written
findings and a decision granting primary approval to the plan. This information
shall be sent to the developer in a letter signed by the President or Secretary
of the Plan Commission.
      (4)   The Commission may:
         (a)   Impose any conditions on the approval of a development plan that
are necessary to satisfy the development requirements specified in this
chapter;
         (b)   Provide that the approval of the development plan is conditioned
on the furnishings of a bond or other written assurance that guarantees the
timely completion of any proposed public improvements; and/or
         (c)   Require the owner of the subject property to make a written
commitment pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-613.
      (5)   Approval of a primary plan shall be effective for a maximum period
of 18 months unless, upon application of the applicant, the Commission grants
an extension within that period of time.
      (6)   The applicant shall pay all fees of the Town Engineer incurred by
the town in review of the application and inspection of the proposed
development.
      (7)   If the Commission disapproves a primary development plan
application, the Commission shall make written findings and notify the
applicant in writing, stating the specific reasons for disapproval. This
written notice shall be signed by the President or Secretary of the Plan
Commission.
      (8)   The applicant shall be required to observe a three-month waiting
period before re-filing a primary plan which has been disapproved by the Plan
Commission.
      (9)   The applicant may submit a new application for primary development
plan approval after the three-month waiting period but must pay all applicable
fees as if it were an original application.
      (10)   Disapproval of a primary development plan is a final decision that
is reviewable under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-1016.
   (D)   Secondary plan approval.
      (1)   After the complete submittal of the application for approval of the
secondary plan, the Commission shall review the information to approve or
disapprove it. Public notice and a hearing are not required for secondary
review. If the Commission determines that the secondary plan complies with the
standards of this chapter, it shall make written findings and a decision
regarding secondary approval of the plan.
      (2)   The secondary approval of the development plan by the Plan
Commission shall be certified on behalf of the Plan Commission by the President
or Secretary who shall affix their signature to the plan.
      (3)   If the Plan Commission disapproves the secondary plat, it shall
make written findings and notify the applicant in writing, stating the specific
reasons for disapproval. This written notice shall be signed by the President
or Secretary of the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Approval of the secondary plat shall be effective for a maximum
period of 18 months from the date of approval. Failure to record the plat with
the Allen County Recorder, and commence construction of the development within
the 18-month period, shall void the previously issued secondary approval. For
the purpose of this chapter, COMMENCING CONSTRUCTION means completion of the
construction survey and staking.
      (5)   A certificate of secondary plat approval shall not be signed until
a performance bond or proof or surety has been submitted to the Plan Commission
if said bond or surety was required.
      (6)   No improvement location permit shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator for any structures in any development prior to the recording of
said secondary plan and certificate of approval with the County Recorder of
Allen County, Indiana.
      (7)   No certificate of compliance or occupancy shall be issued by the
Zoning Administrator, or his agent, for any structure in any development prior
to the installation and completion of all facilities, including grading, as
shown on the development plans and approved by the Commission; except that in
the case of an asphalt road surface, the installation of the final surface coat
may be postponed until the end of the maintenance period. The final coat of
asphalt shall be installed prior to acceptance of the road for public
maintenance.
      (8)   The subdivider shall supply 25 copies of the recorded development
plan to the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Construction plans.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed
development to have prepared and certified by a professional engineer
registered in the State of Indiana, a complete set of construction plans,
including profiles, cross-sections, specifications, and other supporting data
for all required public streets, utilities, and other facilities.
      (2)   The final construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans
which have been approved with the primary plat and shall be prepared and
submitted in conjunction with the secondary plat. The plans shall show the
following:
         (a)   General construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements. Plans shall be drawn on standard 24-inch by 36-inch sheets at a
scale of no less than one inch equaling 50 feet or at a scale to be determined
by the Zoning Administrator, and map sheets shall be of the same size as the
secondary plat.
         (b)   Topographic contours at intervals of two feet. Contours shall be
referenced to USGS datum plane.
         (c)   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center
lines of all streets. Where a proposed street intersects an existing street or
streets, the elevation along the center line of the existing street or streets
within 100 feet of the intersection. Radii of all curves, lengths of tangents,
and central angles on all streets shall be shown.
         (d)   The Plan Commission may require, where steep slopes exist, the
cross-sections of all proposed streets.
         (e)   Plans and profiles showing the location and typical cross-
section of streets including curbs, gutters, sidewalks, rights-of-way, drainage
facilities, manholes, and catch basins. Plans shall also show the location,
size, and invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm
water drains, water lines, gas, and fire hydrants, showing connection to any
existing or proposed utility systems.
         (f)   Location, size, elevation, and other appropriate descriptions of
any other existing physical and natural features of facilities including
features noted on the official map of local government, trees, the points of
connection to proposed facilities and utilities, and the approximate high and
low water elevations of all ponds, lakes, and streams. All elevations shall be
referenced to the USGS datum plane.
      (3)   Upon completion of the construction, the developer’s engineer shall
provide the Plan Commission with a set of as built construction plans showing
the drainage, street profiles, and any other improvements determined by the
Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.189 CONTENT OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION.
   Unless waived pursuant to the provisions of §
152.190 of this subchapter, the documentation and supporting information
required in primary and secondary subdivision plats, as set forth in §§
151.042 and
151.045 of the Subdivision Control Ordinance shall be the same documentation
required in and supporting primary and secondary development plans. Under the
authority of I.C. 36-7-4-1403(d), §§
151.042 and
151.045 of the Subdivision Control Ordinance are incorporated herein by
reference. Where necessary the term “developer” shall be substituted for the
term “subdivider” and the term “development plan” shall be substituted for the
terms “subdivision plat” or “plat”.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.190 WAIVERS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to issue an
improvement location permit for construction of an improvement within a
development plan district without the prior submission and approval of a
development plan, if the Plan Commission determines that the following
circumstances exist:
      (1)   The proposed improvement would not have a significant impact upon
adjacent land uses, or upon the streets, utilities, storm drains, or other
public improvements that serve the real estate on which the improvement is to
be located; and
      (2)   The public convenience and welfare would not be substantially
served by requiring the submission of a development plan for the proposed
improvement.
   (B)   If the Plan Commission determines that the circumstances set forth in
division (A) above can only be met if certain conditions are satisfied, the
Plan Commission may impose conditions which must be satisfied by the applicant
before the issuance of the permit.
   (C)   The determination by the Plan Commission to waive, or not to waive,
the requirement of a development plan under division (A) above and the
determination by the Zoning Administrator to impose conditions on a permit
under division (B) above are not appealable to the Board of Zoning Appeals or
to the Town Council. If the Plan Commission imposes conditions for the issuance
of a permit under division (B) above, and the applicant disagrees with those
conditions, the applicant may submit a development plan for approval by the
Plan Commission in accordance with the normal requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   When a development plan is submitted in accordance with the normal
requirements of this subchapter, the Zoning Administrator shall have the
authority to waive any of the requirements of §
152.189 of this subchapter (pertaining to the content of development plans and
supporting information) if the Zoning Administrator determines that any of the
documentation or information required under §
152.189 would not assist the Plan Commission in determining whether the
development standards have been met.
   (E)   When a development plan is submitted in accordance with the normal
requirements of this subchapter, the Plan Commission shall have the authority
to waive any of the requirements of §
152.187 of this subchapter (pertaining to development standards) if the Plan
Commission determines that the following conditions are met:
   (1)   The applicant can demonstrate that compliance with the standards for
which a waiver is sought, places an unreasonable hardship on the applicant
because of a unique quality of the land upon which the improvement is to be
located, or that a benefit to the local community which arises from a unique
quality of the land or from an innovative nature of the proposal contained in
the development plan would be lost if the standards of this subchapter are
strictly adhered to;
   (2)   Waiver of the development standards at issue would not have a
significant impact upon adjacent land uses, and upon the streets, utilities,
storm drains, and other public improvements that serve the real estate on which
the improvement is to be located; and
   (3)   The public convenience and welfare would not be substantially served
by requiring the rigid compliance with the development standards at issue.
(Ord. passed - - )
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 152.205 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Sign Regulations” of the Town of Leo-
Cedarville.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.206 DEFINITIONS.
   All terms used in this subchapter, not otherwise defined herein, shall have
the definitions provided in §§
152.330 and
152.331 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.207 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permits required. Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be
unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, move or convert any sign
within the jurisdiction of the Leo-Cedarville Advisory Plan Commission, or
cause the same to be done without first obtaining a sign permit from the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Application. Application for a permit shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall be accompanied by information as may be required by the
Zoning Administrator to assure compliance with the laws and regulations of the
town, including:
      (1)   Name and address of the property owner of the premises on which the
sign is located or is to be located;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner of the sign;
      (3)   Clear and legible drawings with description showing the location of
the sign which is the subject of the permit;
      (4)   All signs on the same parcel or owned by the same business must be
noted; and
      (5)   All signs within 100 feet of the subject sign shall be noted on a
plain view drawing.
   (C)   Permit fees. The permit fee as specified by the official fee schedule
shall be paid to the Zoning Administrator at the time that the application is
filed.
   (D)   Effect of sign permit issuance. No permit for a sign issued hereunder
shall be deemed to constitute permission or authorization to maintain an
unlawful sign nor shall a permit issued hereunder constitute a defense in an
action to abate an unlawful sign.
   (E)   Nullification. A sign permit shall become null and void if the work
authorized thereunder has not been started within a period of 12 months or
completed within 18 months following the date of the permit.
   (F)   Permit exceptions. The following shall not be considered as erecting,
constructing, enlarging, moving, or converting a sign and therefore shall not
be required a sign permit unless otherwise specified.
      (1)   Changing copy. The changing of copy or message on an approved sign.
Provided that no changes are made to the size, height, location or structure of
the sign.
      (2)   Maintenance. Painting, repainting, cleaning or other normal
maintenance and repair of a sign or sign structure unless a structural change
is involved.
      (3)   Temporary or exempt sign. Temporary or exempt signs as described in
this subchapter.
   (G)   Variances. A variance from the sign regulations of this subchapter can
be granted by petitioning the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.208 INSPECTION, REMOVAL, SAFETY.
   (A)   Inspection. Signs for which a permit is required may be inspected
periodically by the Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator for compliance with
this chapter and other codes of the town.
   (B)   Removal of sign. 
      (1)   The Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator may order the removal
of any sign erected or maintained in violation of this subchapter. A 30-day
written notice shall be given to the owner or business operator describing the
violation and to remove the sign or bring it into compliance. A three-day
notice shall be given for temporary or portable signs. The Plan Commission or
Zoning Administrator may remove a sign immediately and without notice if the
condition of the sign presents an immediate threat to the safety of the public.
      (2)   Any cost associated with signs removed by the Plan Commission and/
or their agent, pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, shall be
reimbursed by the owner of said sign. Should said sign not be redeemed within
60 days of its removal, it may be disposed of in any manner deemed appropriate
by the town.
   (C)   Maintenance. All signs and components thereof shall be kept in good
repair and in safe, neat, clean and attractive condition. If failure to
maintain a sign is determined by the Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator, a
written notice will be given to the owner, business operator or leasee of the
property. Thirty days shall be given to the owner, business operator, or leasee
of the property to comply to the regulations. After 30 days if the owner/
business operator fails to comply penalties shall be imposed according to §§
152.275 through
152.279 and
152.290 through
152.295.
   (D)   Abandoned signs. A sign shall be removed by the owner or lessee of the
premises upon which the sign is located when the business which it advertises
is no longer conducted on the premises. If the owner or lessee fails to remove
the sign, the Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator shall give the owner 30
days written notice to remove it. Upon failure to comply with this notice, the
Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator may remove the sign at cost to the
property owner or leasee.
   (E)   Street improvement projects. Any sign that is in or projects over a
roadway right-of-way at the time of the effective date of this chapter must be
removed at the owner’s expense. No sign will be permitted in or projecting over
a roadway right-of-way.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.209 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs which existed prior to the time this chapter was passed and were
in conformance with previous ordinances will be legally nonconforming until
such time a major change is made to the sign, except sign located within or
projecting over a roadway right-of-way as described in §
152.208(E), which are never legally non-conforming. Major changes include
changing the copy, changing the size, changing the height, adding lights, and/
or relocation.
   (B)   All nonconforming signs shall be kept in good repair, safe, neat,
clean and attractive condition. In the event nonconforming signs are not kept
in said condition or are demolished by any force whatsoever to the extent of
50% or more of the fair market value of the sign structure, said signs shall
then be made to conform to this chapter.
   (C)   Nonconforming signs that are structurally altered, relocated, or
replaced shall comply immediately with all provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.210 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are expressly prohibited in all zoning
districts:
   (A)   “A” frame signs. “A” frame signs or sandwich board, sidewalk or curb
signs are prohibited if it is deemed hazardous to pedestrian traffic by the
Plan Commission.
   (B)   Abandoned signs. Such business signs that advertise an activity,
business, product or service no longer conducted or available shall be
prohibited.
   (C)   Animated or intensely lighted signs. No sign shall be permitted which
is animated by means of flashing, scintillating, blinking or traveling lights
or any other device or means not providing constant illumination.
   (D)   Hand painted signs. Hand painted signs erected as permanent outdoor
advertising signs must be done in a professional manner and character. Signs
deemed to not meet this criteria by the Plan Commission are prohibited.
   (E)   Search lights and balloons. Search lights, vertical wind-socks,
balloons, gas-filled figures, or similar objects used to attract attention
shall be prohibited except as set forth below. Such signs shall be permitted at
the opening of a new business in a commercial or industrial district for a
period not to exceed seven days. A temporary sign permit must be issued prior
to installation or use.
   (F)   Miscellaneous signs and posters. The tacking, posting or otherwise
affixing of signs of any character, visible from a roadway, located on the
walls of buildings, barns, sheds, on trees, poles, posts, fences or other
structures are prohibited unless specifically permitted by provisions of this
chapter.
   (G)   Moving signs.  No sign or any portion thereof shall be permitted which
moves or assumes any motion or gives the illusion of moving.
   (H)   Off-premise signs. Off-premise signs shall be prohibited except as
expressly permitted in this subchapter.
   (I)   Projecting signs. No sign shall project over or into the street right-
of-way.
   (J)   Public areas. No sign shall be permitted which is placed on any post,
pole, hydrant, bridge, tree or other surface located on public property or over
any street or roadway without the approval of the Plan Commission or Town
Council.
   (K)   Towers (water, radio, etc.) No sign shall be placed on any tower or
tank without the approval of the Plan Commission or Town Council.
   (L)   Unclassified signs. The following signs are prohibited which:
      (1)   Bear or contain statements, words or pictures of an obscene,
pornographic, immoral character, or which contain advertising matter which is
untruthful or will offend public morals or decency;
      (2)   Utilize any motion picture, laser, or visual projection of images
or copy in conjunction with any business or advertisement;
      (3)   Emit audible sound, odor or visible matter;
      (4)   Are in imitation of, or resemble an official traffic sign or
signal, or which bear the words “Stop”, “Slow”, “Caution”, “Danger”, “Warning”,
or similar words;
      (5)   May be construed as a light of an emergency or road equipment
vehicle;
      (6)   Hide from view any traffic or roadway sign, signal or device;
      (7)   Obstruct any door, fire escape, stairway, or any opening intended
to provide entrance or exit for any building or structure; or
      (8)   Contain any moving or progressively changing text.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.211 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of signs are exempted from the provisions of this
subchapter unless determined by the Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator to
be unsafe or in excess of the purpose for the exemption.
   (A)   Street address sign. A sign on a primary structure may be mounted
flush against the structure and that such sign shall not exceed two square feet
in size.
   (B)   Damaged signs. A legal sign which is damaged or destroyed by wind,
weather, or other accidental means beyond the control of the applicant may be
replaced to its original size, shape, and location (as prior to the accident)
without obtaining a permit. Replacement of a damaged or destroyed sign with a
sign of different size, shape, type or location from the original sign shall
require a permit in compliance with this chapter. A legally non-conforming sign
that is damaged may not be replaced without a variance granted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals and a permit.
   (C)   Integral signs. Names of building, date of erection, monumental
citations, commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stone, concrete
or similar material or made of bronze, aluminum, or other permanent type
construction and made an integral part of the structure. In no case shall an
integral sign be allowed if it advertises a business or product.
   (D)   Parking signs. Signs for public and private parking shall be
permitted. The leading edge of such signs shall be subject to a three-foot
setback from the curb or pavement edge and shall not be used for advertising
purposes. Signs shall be no higher than six feet off the ground and no greater
than two square feet in area. Such signs shall be installed so as to not
present a hazard to pedestrians or motor vehicles.
   (E)   Private traffic/direction signs. Signs directing traffic movement onto
or within a premise shall be permitted. However, illumination of these signs
shall not be permitted. The leading edge of such signs shall be a minimum of
three feet from any curb or edge of pavement. The sign shall be no higher than
six feet off the ground and no greater than three square feet in area.
   (F)   Public signs. Signs of a noncommercial nature and in the public
interest erected by or on the order of public officer(s) in the performance of
public duty, such as signs to promote safety, no trespassing, or traffic signs,
memorial plaques, signs of historical interest, and signs directing people to
public and quasi-public facilities.
   (G)   Banners and pennants. Festival or public notification banners and
pennants shall be permitted. Such banners and pennants must be for a public or
quasi-public endeavor or activity. In no case are they permitted if they
project in or over public rights-of-way without the permission of the Plan
Commission or Town Council.
   (H)   Name plates. A nameplate which shall not exceed two square feet in
area is permitted for each dwelling unit of a single-family or multifamily
dwelling; such nameplate shall state nothing other than the name and/or address
of the occupant. No other sign shall be allowed.
   (I)   House sale or rental signs. Signs on the premises announcing rooms,
apartments or house for sale or rent provided that such signs comply with
provisions of §
152.212(E).
   (J)   Social or charitable organizations. Signs erected by organizations
that are established solely for purposes of national, social, patriotic,
political, or athletic nature or the like thereof.
   (K)   Vehicle or product for sale signs. Signs on a vehicles or products for
sale are permitted provided the sign is painted or attached directly to the
vehicle or product and does not project from the vehicle or product. Such
vehicles or product shall be located a minimum distance of ten feet from any
street right-of-way and shall be located so as to not create an obstruction or
hazard to the traveling public. Such vehicle or product must be owned by the
property owner and not be for sale as a commercial operation. No more than one
product may be displayed at one time and not for a period of more than 30 days
over the course of a three-month period of time, except for garage/yard sales
that are authorized under provisions of this code and which do not last longer
than two days in any three-month period.
   (L)   Utility signs. Utility signs are permitted to mark cables and lines
for public and private utilities except if determined to be a hazard by the
Plan Commission.
   (M)   Green address signs, provided by the local fire department, are
permitted and encouraged wherever possible.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.212 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be permitted as long as there is no risk to public
safety. The sign may not be located within the public right-of-way without
express written permission of the Town Council.
   (A)   Construction signs. Construction signs which identify the architects,
engineers, contractors and other individuals or firms involved with the
construction but not including any advertisement of any product, and signs
announcing the character of the building enterprise or the purpose for which
the building is intended during the construction period to a maximum of 26
square feet. The minimum setback shall be ten feet from any street right-of-
way. The sign shall be confined to the site of construction and shall be
removed within 30 days after the end of construction.
   (B)   Garage sale signs. Signs advertising the sale of miscellaneous
household items for the purpose of a residential “garage” or “yard” sale shall
not exceed 26 square feet in total area of all signs. Such signs may be erected
on the premises one week in advance of the sale and shall be removed within 48
hours after the sale. Per I.C. 35-43-1-2, garage sale signs are strictly
prohibited from being posted on utility poles or in the right-of-way.
   (C)   Political campaign signs. Political campaign signs announcing the
candidates seeking public political office shall be confined within private
property with owners permission and not within the street right-of-way. They
shall be permitted no more than 45 days prior to the scheduled election and
shall be removed within three days after the day of election.
   (D)   Portable signs. Signs placed upon wheels or lightweight frames for
convenient moving and with changeable letter boards for convenient changing of
sign copy, shall be prohibited except as noted below.
      (1)   Portable signs shall be permitted for newly established businesses,
relocated businesses for a period of 30 days provided that such sign shall:
         (a)   Be located not less than five feet from any public right-of-way;
         (b)   Not exceed seven feet from ground level;
         (c)   Not obstruct the flow or sight pattern of vehicular traffic;
         (d)   Not be less than ten feet from adjoining residential lots;
         (e)   Have a face not exceeding 32 square feet; and
         (f)   Not have blinking lights.
      (2)   Service and charitable organizations shall be permitted the use of
these portable signs two times per calendar year for a maximum of 14 days each
time.
   (E)   Real estate signs. One real estate sign advertising the sale, rental
or lease of the premises or part of the premises on which the sign is displayed
shall not exceed six square feet in single-family residential zones and 16
square feet in business, commercial or industrial zones. Such sign shall be
removed within 14 days of the sale, rental or lease. The minimum setback from
street right-of-way shall be ten feet. Signs shall reflect no advertising or
promotional material other than to indicate the party listing the property for
sale, rental or lease, sale price, and contact information. Such sign shall not
be required to obtain a permit. Four off-site real estate directional signs are
permitted for a period of 48 hours in a seven-day period when in conjunction
with an open house and may not exceed 24 square feet in total sign area for all
directional signs. Off-site real estate development directional signs shall be
allowed only by approval of the Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   Banners and pennants. Banners and pennants advertising new products
shall be permitted for only seven days.
      (1)   Each businesses is allowed 15 temporary permits for banners or
pennants per calendar year;
      (2)   Banners or pennants shall be placed on a building wall or permanent
structure;
      (3)   All setback regulations for a primary structure will apply to the
location of banners or pennants;
      (4)   The total sign area may not exceed 36 square feet; and
      (5)   Failure to remove the banner or pennant will result in a penalty
equal to the permit cost and the loss of one temporary sign permit from the 15
allowed during each calendar year.
   (G)   Subdivision or multi-family sign. Two temporary subdivision or
multiple-family project identity signs indicating only the name and/or address
of the premises and/or the name of the management. Such signs shall not exceed
32 square feet in area per sign and shall be located a minimum distance of ten
feet from any street right-of-way. The maximum time period allowed will be 12
months.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.213 ILLUMINATION.
   Any electronic message board sign proposed for a Residential District that
does any of the following, blinks, flashes, flutters, changes light intensity,
brightness, or color, or has a scrolling or changing message, must be approved
by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.214 SIGN STANDARDS BY ZONE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following sign standards by districts are intended to include
every zone district within the jurisdiction of the town. The zoning districts
are as defined in §§
152.025 through
152.028,
152.040 through
152.045,
152.060 through
152.064, and
152.075 and geographically located on the Official zone map. Only signs as
described herein and as may be described under temporary signs and exemptions
shall be permitted in each particular zoning district.
   (B)   If any zoning district is omitted from this chapter or if a new zoning
district is created after enactment of this chapter, no sign shall be permitted
therein until this chapter shall have been amended to include the new zoning
district.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.215 RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   This section of the sign regulations shall apply to all zoning districts
designated as R1, R2, R3, R4, and R5.
   (A)   Signs permitted in the R1 and R2 (Low Density) Districts.
      (1)   One nameplate sign not exceeding a combined area of two square foot
in area is permitted on the primary structure. No permit is required. No
illumination is permitted.
      (2)   One sign in conjunction with a home occupations is permitted. Said
sign must not exceed two square feet and shall not be illuminated. A permit is
required.
      (3)   A church, or public building sign, shall not exceed 100 square feet
in total area and may be illuminated according to provisions in this
subchapter. A permit is required.
      (4)   Signs under temporary signs and exemptions in this subchapter are
permitted as per the regulations of this subchapter.
      (5)   Gateway signs for subdivisions are permitted as per the regulations
in the Subdivision Control Ordinance. Said signs shall not exceed six feet in
height. Maximum size shall be 50 square feet in area.
   (B)   Signs permitted in the R3, R4, and R5 (Medium and High Density)
Districts.
      (1)   One nameplate sign not exceeding two square foot in area is
permitted per single family, duplex and/or multiple family unit. No permit is
required. No illumination is permitted.
      (2)   One sign in conjunction with a home occupation is permitted on
single family detached residences. Said sign must not exceed two square feet
and shall not be illuminated. A permit is required.
      (3)   A church or public building bulletin board or sign, not exceeding
32 square feet in area, may be illuminated but shall conform to §§
152.213 and
152.214 of this subchapter.
      (4)   A wall sign stating only the name of the church, school, or public
building may be approved by the Advisory Plan Commission, not to exceed 100
square feet.
      (5)   Any sign as permitted in §§
152.211 or
152.212, of this subchapter is permitted. Only the multifamily project identity
sign may be illuminated but shall conform to §
152.213 of this subchapter.
      (6)   For funeral homes or mortuaries, an illuminated nameplate shall be
permitted, provided it is not greater than 32 square feet in area.
      (7)   A maximum of two permanent or temporary multifamily project
“identity signs” shall be permitted for the main entryway. In the event the
project has entries from more than one street, additional identity signs may be
permitted by the Advisory Plan Commission. Any temporary sign, as provided in §
152.212 shall be removed before a permanent sign may be erected. Project
identity signs shall not exceed six feet in height. Maximum size shall be 50
square feet.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   All permanent signs shall be placed a minimum of ten feet from any
street right-of-way.
      (2)   All temporary signs shall be placed a minimum of ten feet from the
pavement edge.
      (3)   Building-mounted signs shall be flush mounted. There shall be no
projection of any sign above the roofline.
      (4)   Permitted signs shall not be placed in utility easements or
drainage easements as defined on recorded plats or site plans.
      (5)   Signs shall not be placed as to interfere with the sight path of
vehicular traffic.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.216 COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   This section of the sign regulations shall apply to all zoning districts
designated as OC, DC, and C1.
   (A)   Ground sign.
      (1)   Limit of one.  One ground sign indicating the name and nature of
the business shall be permitted for each business parcel.
      (2)   Height. The height of any ground sign shall be such that no part of
the sign face shall exceed a maximum height of six feet from the original
ground grade.
      (3)   Size and location. A ground sign shall be placed a minimum distance
of ten feet from any street right-of-way. The entire sign unit, side to side,
top to bottom, shall not exceed 50 square feet (5 x 10) in area.
      (4)   Illumination. All permitted signs in this district may be lit but
shall not shine directly or indirectly into adjacent residential areas.
   (B)   Wall sign. One wall sign shall be permitted on each building. Maximum
sign area shall be one and one-half square feet for each lineal foot of
building frontage; however, in no instance shall such signage exceed 50 square
feet for a single business. Wall signs shall be mounted flush against the
building. The face area may be increased by 75% if the sign is for two or three
businesses, and may be increased by 100% if the sign is for more than three
businesses.
   (C)   In the Old Town/DC zoning district of State Road One, there shall be
no ground signs.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.217 OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS.
   This section of the sign regulations shall apply to all zoning districts
designated as C2.
   (A)   For free standing buildings. Permitted signs for free standing
buildings including free standing buildings located at strip and enclosed mall
shopping centers.
      (1)   Ground or pole signs. Either one ground sign or one pole sign (but
not both) indicating only the name and nature of the occupancy shall be
permitted for each business parcel. Such sign shall not exceed 100 square feet
in area hereof and a pole sign shall not exceed 35 feet in height. Such sign
shall be installed in accordance with location criteria as explained in this
subchapter. Such ground sign may be illuminated as provided in this subchapter.
Where the business lot frontage is 100 feet or less, only a ground sign shall
be permitted.
      (2)   Wall signs. Signage on the wall of a building shall not exceed 20%
of the total area of the wall, up to a maximum of 200 square feet per wall. In
computing wall area for the purposes of this section, the areas covered by
doors or windows shall be excluded.
      (3)   Marquee signs. Marquee signs are permitted on the face of marquees
subject to the following conditions: the lower edge of the marquee sign shall
be no less than eight feet above the sidewalk at any point. Unless otherwise
approved by the Commission, no part of such sign shall project above the
roofline.
   (B)   Permitted signs for strip shopping centers.
      (1)   Pole signs. Pole signs at strip shopping centers and in industrial
zones may be made a part of the site development plan or erected at a later
date and shall be subject to the approval of the Advisory Plan Commission and
shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   One pole sign shall be permitted;
         (b)   Such sign shall indicate only the name and location of such
business or businesses;
         (c)   Such sign shall have a maximum surface area not exceeding 200
square feet; except as otherwise permitted in this subchapter;
         (d)   Where a strip shopping center or developed parcel in an
industrial zone has in excess of 200 feet of street frontage, one additional
free standing pole sign may be approved by the Advisory Plan Commission;
         (e)   Where a strip shopping center or developed parcel in an
industrial zone is authorized by the Advisory Plan Commission to have more than
one free standing pole sign, the distance between each sign shall be not less
than 100 feet; and
         (f)   Such signs may be illuminated as provided in this subchapter or
as approved by the Advisory Plan Commission.
      (2)   Wall signs. Signage on the wall of a building shall not exceed 20%
of the total area of the wall up to a maximum of 200 square feet per wall. In
computing wall area for the purposes of this section, the areas covered by door
or windows shall be excluded.
      (3)   Marquee signs. Marquee signs as provided in this subchapter shall
be permitted.
      (4)   Bench signs. Bench signs as provided in this subchapter shall be
permitted.
   (C)   Commercial Zoning Districts. Advertising signs (off-premise) - Outdoor
advertising sign structures are prohibited except as permitted under §§
152.230 through
152.235 Interstate Highway Signage. All other off-premise advertising shall be
prohibited.
   (D)   Signs for commercial/office parks. Off-premise signs shall be
permitted for directing the traveling public to commercial or industrial parks
(strip shopping center or mall not included) providing the following
requirements are met:
      (1)   A permit shall be obtained prior to the erection of the sign;
      (2)   Such sign shall indicate only the name, location, and information
about the park itself, products or services shall not be advertised;
      (3)   Such sign shall have a maximum sign face area of 100 square feet, a
minimum height of nine feet above grade level, a maximum height of 35 feet
above grade, and a minimum setback of 15 feet from street right-of-way;
      (4)   Such sign shall be a minimum distance of 100 feet from any
residential zoning district; and
      (5)   Such sign shall be a minimum distance of 500 feet from any other
“off premises” sign.
   (E)   Signs advertising more than one business. Signs advertising more than
one business shall be permitted subject to the following:
      (1)   If two or three businesses are served, the maximum permitted sign
area shall be increased to an area no greater than 50% larger than the total
area permitted for a single business.
      (2)   If more than three businesses are served by such advertising, the
total area shall be increased no more than double the area permitted for a
single business.
      (3)   In no instance shall a sign exceed 400 square feet on any face.
(Ord. passed - - )
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, LOTS, AND/OR USES
§ 152.230 INTENT.
   Upon adoption of this chapter and zoning map, some buildings, structures,
lots, and uses may no longer conform to the regulations of the zoning district
where they are located. For this reason, this subchapter has been generated to
provide the rules, policies and regulations that apply to these buildings,
structures, lots, and uses referred to as legally nonconforming.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.231 DISTINCTION BETWEEN NONCONFORMING AND LEGALLY NONCONFORMING.
   (A)   A building, structure, lot or use that does not meet the standards and
regulations of the Zoning Ordinance is considered nonconforming. A
nonconforming property shall be subject to actions and penalties by the Plan
Commission or BZA and shall be altered to conform with all applicable standards
and regulations.
   (B)   Legally nonconforming differs from nonconforming in that the reason
for the nonconformance is caused by a change to the Zoning Ordinance. The
building, structure, lot or use has not changed, but due to the ordinance
change, the property no longer conforms to the policies and standards of the
zoning district the property resides. When this situation occurs, the property
is deemed legally nonconforming or another term commonly used is
“grandfathered.”
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.232 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All conforming or legally nonconforming buildings and structures prior
to the effective date of this chapter that no longer meet the design standards
(see list below) under this chapter shall be deemed a legally nonconforming
building(s) or structure(s).
   (B)   Legally nonconforming building(s) or structure(s) no longer meet one
or more of the design standards of this chapter. These design standards
include:
      (1)   Front, side and rear yard setbacks;
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage;
      (3)   Minimum main floor area;
      (4)   Height;
      (5)   Temporary structures;
      (6)   Landscaping;
      (7)   Parking;
      (8)   Accessory structures; and
      (9)   Any other provision of this chapter that is applicable to the
building or structure.
   (C)   Legally nonconforming building(s) or structure(s) may be enlarged or
altered if the new features are conforming and the nonconforming features are
reduced in nonconformity.
   (D)   Damaged or destroyed legally nonconforming building(s) or structure(s)
that lose 50% of the fair market value, space, function, or nonconforming
feature(s) shall not reconstruct the building or structure without conforming
to the policies and provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   No building or structure may be moved for any reason other than to
reduce the feature(s) that are in nonconformance.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.233 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   All conforming or legally nonconforming lots prior to the effective
date of this chapter that no longer meet the lot standards (see list below)
under this chapter shall be deemed a legally nonconforming lot.
   (B)   A legally nonconforming lot no longer meets one or more of the lot
standards of this chapter. These lot standards include:
      (1)   Lot   area;
      (2)   Lot   width;
      (3)   Lot   depth;
      (4)   Lot   frontage; and
      (5)   Any other provision of this chapter that is applicable to lots.
   (C)   Legally nonconforming lots may be built upon only if the use is
permitted and design standards for the applicable zoning district of the
chapter are met. Subdivision lots, approved prior to the effective date of this
chapter are to be governed by the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Ordinance
under which they were approved.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.234 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES, LAND, OR STRUCTURES AND LAND IN
COMBINATION.
   Any continuous, lawful use of structures, land, or structures and land in
combination established prior to the effective date of this chapter or its
subsequent amendments that is no longer a permitted use in the district where
it is located shall be deemed a legally nonconforming use. A legally
nonconforming use may continue provided that it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a legal nonconforming use shall be
enlarged, expanded, increased, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or
structurally altered except as to change the use of the structure to a use
permitted in the district in which it is located or as otherwise specified in
division (D) below or otherwise in this chapter.
   (B)   No building or structure shall be constructed in connection with an
existing legal nonconforming use of land.
   (C)   Any legal nonconforming use of a structure may be extended throughout
any parts of a building which were plainly arranged or designed for such use at
the effective date of this chapter or its subsequent amendments, but no such
use shall be extended to occupy any land outside the building except as allowed
in division (D) below.
   (D)   In the case of a legal nonconforming use of structure, the structure
may only be expanded on two occasions from the date it becomes legally
nonconforming. Each of the two expansions may not exceed 10% of the existing
floor area. The expansion shall conform to all applicable development standards
except for landscaping, unless a variance of developmental standards is
received from the Board of Zoning Appeals. If the structure is occupied by a
commercial or industrial use in a residential district, §
152.137(C) and (D) shall be used for parking standards.
   (E)   If no structural alterations are made, a legally nonconforming use of
structure or structure and land in combination may be changed to another
legally nonconforming use, provided that the zoning administrator makes a
determination and specific findings that the proposed use is less of impact or
lower impact than the existing legally nonconforming use. However, if the new
use requires more parking or loading area than the previous use, such new use
will comply with the requirements of §§
152.137 and
152.138 of this chapter, unless a variance from developmental standards is
granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (F)   If a legally nonconforming use is discontinued or abandoned for six
consecutive months, except when government action impedes access to the
premises, any subsequent use of such land, the new use of structure, land or
structure and land in combination shall conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (G)   When a legally nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, it
shall thereafter conform to regulations of the district, the legally
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.235 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The following applies to legally nonconforming structures or buildings, and
legally nonconforming uses of structures, land, or structures and land in
combination:
   (A)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance of any legally nonconforming
structure or building may be completed, but must obtain proper permits. Repairs
may include the replacement of interior walls, heating, fixtures, wiring, or
plumbing; under the condition that the repairs and maintenance do not add to
the nonconformity or add a nuisance.
   (B)   If a structure or portion of a structure were to become unsafe or
unlawful due to lack of repairs or maintenance, and is declared by an
authorized official to be unsafe or condemned due to physical condition; the
building or structure shall not be restored, repaired or rebuilt within eight
weeks of the declaration. In the event that an unsafe or condemned building or
structure is not restored, repaired or rebuilt within the eight-week period of
time, it will not be able to be used or occupied until such time that it is
made to conform to all provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If a building or structure becomes unsafe or unlawful due to physical
condition and is razed, any new building or structure shall be built in
conformity with the district in which it is located.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening,
repairing, or restoring to a safe condition of any building or structure or
part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting
public safety upon order of such official.
(Ord. passed - - )
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 152.250 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) shall consist of and continue as a five
member Board. Members shall be appointed pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-902.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.251 OFFICERS, MEMBERS, AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Following their initial appointment to the BZA, each member shall be
appointed for a term of four years. Each term shall expire at midnight on
December 31 of the fourth year of the four-year term; however, members of the
Board of Zoning Appeals shall serve until their successors are appointed and
seated.
   (B)   At its first regularly scheduled meeting in each calendar year, the
Board shall select from its membership a chairman and a vice-chairman. Each
shall serve during the period of their membership on the Board for the balance
of the calendar.
   (C)   The vice-chairman shall have the authority to act as chairman of the
Board during the absence or disability of the chairman.
   (D)   Upon resignation or replacement of the chairman or vice-chairman as a
member of the Board, the Board shall elect a successor at its next regularly
scheduled meeting.
   (E)   The Board shall appoint and fix the duties of a secretary, who is not
required to be a member of the Board. The secretary shall be charged with such
duties as required under state statutes, town ordinances, and these rules.
   (F)   If a vacancy occurs among the members of the Board, the appointing
authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the vacating member.
The appointing authority shall be notified in writing by the secretary when a
member has been absent for three consecutive meetings of the Board. Such
absences may constitute cause for removal from the Board by the appointing
authority under I.C. 36-7-4-906(f).
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.252 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have jurisdiction over all the land
subject to the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Control Ordinance.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.253 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have exclusive subject matter jurisdiction
for:
   (A)   Variance from development standards;
   (B)   Variances of use (use variances);
   (C)   Special exceptions; and
   (D)   Administrative appeals.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.254 RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Rules and procedures. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have sole
authority to adopt any and all rules under I.C. 36-7-4-916 and any and all
procedures concerning organization, selection of officers, forms for
applications, filing requirements, procedures, notices for an conduct of
meetings, and public hearings.
   (B)   Facilities and funding. The town shall provide suitable facilities for
the holding of Board of Zoning Appeals meetings and hearings and the storage of
its records, documents, and accounts, and in its annual budget to provide
sufficient funds for the functioning of said Board and its staff.
   (C)   Filing. All applications for variances, special exceptions, and
requests for appeal shall be filed by the applicant with the staff of the Board
of Zoning Appeals and in the form prescribed by said Board.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.255 HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
administrative appeals, special exceptions, and variances.
   (B)   Public notice in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1-2 and I.C. 5-3-1-4 and due
notice to interested parties shall be given at least ten days before the date
set for the hearing.
   (C)   The party pursuing the appeal or applying for the special exception or
variance shall be required to assume costs of public notice and notice to
interested parties. Interested parties shall include, but are not limited to,
all properties adjacent within 300 feet of the subject site boundaries with the
corporate boundary and only directly adjacent properties outside the corporate
limit.
   (D)   The Board may, by rule, determine who are interested parties, how
notice is to be given to them, and who is required to give that notice.
   (E)   Other persons may appear and present relevant evidence at such public
hearing.
   (F)   A person may not communicate with any member of the Board before the
hearing with intent to influence the member’s action on a matter pending before
the Board.
   (G)   Special meetings may be called by the chairman or by two members of
the Board upon written request to the secretary. The secretary shall send to
all members, at least three days before the special hearing, a special notice
fixing the time and place of the meeting. Written notice is not required if:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the special meeting are fixed in the
regular meeting;
      (2)   All members of the Board are present at that regular meeting; and
      (3)   The secretary complies with the notice requirement of I.C. 5-14-
1.5.
   (H)   The chairman of the Board shall preside over meetings and hearings,
decide questions of order, subject to appeal by Board members, and preserve
decorum in the meeting room. The chairman may warn any person present that
particular conduct is a breach of courtesy and may order a person expelled from
the meeting for disruptive conduct.
   (I)   The secretary shall keep minutes of its proceedings and record the
vote on all actions taken. The Board shall also make written findings of fact
in all cases heard by it. The minutes shall be presented to the Board at the
next succeeding regular meeting. When approved, the minutes shall be signed by
the chairman and attested by the secretary.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.256 APPEARANCES.
   (A)   The petitioner or the petitioner’s agent must appear in person or by
counsel to present petition or remonstrance to the Board and for the Board to
consider the case. If no person appears on behalf of a petition, the petition
may be tabled until the following meeting or dismissed under division (B)
below.
   (B)   The Board’s secretary or staff must be informed prior to the meeting
if the petitioner requests a time extension. The chairman will determine
whether the petitioner’s reasons warrant an extension. If the petitioner or the
petitioner’s agent fail to appear at the meeting for which the extension was
given without sufficient reason, the petition may be dismissed.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.257 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business for a regular meeting shall be:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call and determination of quorum;
      (3)   Consideration of minutes of previous meeting;
      (4)   Old business (tabled or continued items);
      (5)   New business;
      (6)   Report of officers and committees;
      (7)   Communications, bills, and expenditures; and
      (8)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The order of business for special meetings shall be:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call and determination of quorum;
      (3)   The business for which the special meeting was called; and
      (4)   Adjournment.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.258 OFFICIAL ACTION.
   (A)   A majority of the members of the Board who are qualified to vote shall
constitute a quorum. Action of the Board shall not be official unless it is
authorized at a regular or properly-called special meeting by a majority of the
entire membership of the Board.
   (B)   Voting by the Board shall be by roll call vote of the members. All
members present shall vote on every question unless they are permitted to
abstain by the presiding officer.
   (C)   On all decisions on petitions before the Board of Zoning Appeals, the
Board shall adopt written findings of fact and a written decision.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-909, a member of an Advisory Board of Zoning
Appeals may not participate in a hearing or decision of that Board concerning a
zoning matter in which he has a direct or indirect financial interest. The
Board shall enter in its records the fact that its member has such a
disqualification.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.259 APPEALS.
   Every decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be subject to review by
a writ of certiorari as prescribed in I.C. 36-7-4-1000. Such appeals shall be
presented to a court of jurisdiction within 30 business days of the Board’s
decision, and not thereafter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.260 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   There shall be no cases or application therefore, nor any particular
situation in which these rules authorize special exceptions without the
approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals. Further, no previous applications
shall set a precedence for any other application before the BZA.
   (B)   The Board may grant a special exception for a use in a district if,
after a hearing under, it makes findings of facts in writing, that:
      (1)   The requirements and development standards for the requested use as
prescribed by this chapter will be met; and
      (2)   Granting the exception will not subvert the general purposes served
by this chapter and will not, because of traffic generation, placement of
outdoor lighting, noise production or hours of operation, materially and/or
permanently injure other property or uses in the same district and vicinity.
   (C)   The Board may impose such reasonable conditions upon its approval as
it deems necessary to find that the purpose of this chapter shall be served.
   (D)   The Board may permit or require the owner of the parcel of property to
make a written commitment concerning the use or development of the parcel as
specified under I.C. 36-7-4-921.
   (E)   A use authorized by special exception may not be expanded, extended,
or enlarged unless reauthorized by the Board under the procedures set forth in
these rules for granting a special exception.
   (F)   A special exception, granted for a specific use ceases to be
authorized and is void if that use is not established within a 12-month period
of the date the special exception was granted, or if that use is discontinued
at that site for a 12-month period during which time it is not succeeded by the
same use specifically authorized as a special exception.
   (G)   A special exception may be terminated by the Board of Zoning Appeals,
upon filing of an application therefore by an interested person or a member of
the staff, and upon a finding at a public hearing, with notice to the property
owner, that the terms of this chapter, or conditions of approval or commitments
have not been complied with.
   (H)   To be eligible for the granting of a special exception under this
section, a person must first receive a determination from the Board that a
special exception is required for the intended use or for the expansion,
extension, or enlargement of a use.
   (I)   After public hearing the Board shall issue written findings of facts
granting or denying the special use exception. If the Board grants the special
exception, the applicant may apply for an improvement location permit. If such
application complies with all ordinances and rules, an improvement location
permit for the use authorized by special exception shall be issued.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.261 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board may grant a variance from the development standards (such as
height, bulk, area) of the zoning ordinance if, after a public hearing, it
makes findings of facts in writing, that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community; and
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner; and
      (3)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will result in
a unnecessary hardship. This situation shall not be self-imposed, nor be based
on a perceived reduction of or restriction on economic gain.
   (B)   The Board may grant a variance from the use restrictions of the Zoning
Ordinance if, after public hearing, it makes findings of fact in writing, that:
      (1)   The variance will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be effected in a substantially adverse manner;
      (3)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to
the property involved;
      (4)   The strict application of the terms of the Zoning Ordinance will
constitute an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the
variance is sought; and
      (5)   The approval of the variance does not interfere substantially with
the comprehensive plan adopted by the Town Council.
   (C)   The use variance granted by the Board shall run with the parcel until
such time as the use of the variance ends, or the property conforms to the
ordinance as written.
   (D)   The Board may permit or require the owner of a parcel of property to
make written commitment concerning the use or development of that parcel or may
impose provisions upon the grant of a use or development of that parcel or may
impose provisions upon the grant of a use or development standards variance.
   (E)   Where an owner has failed to comply with any condition and/or
commitment permitted or required by the grant of a variance, the Board may
authorize such action as it may deem appropriate to obtain compliance by the
owner with the condition or commitment of the grant, or with the terms of the
town ordinances in the same manner as if the variance had not been granted.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.262 EXCLUSION.
   Nothing in these rules, regulations or orders issued pursuant to town
ordinances shall be deemed to restrict or regulate or to authorize any unit of
government, legislative body, Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals now or
hereafter established, to restrict or regulate the exercise of the power of
eminent domain by the State of Indiana or by any state agency, or the use of
property occupied by the State of Indiana or any state agency. As used in this
section, the term STATE AGENCY shall mean and include all agencies, boards,
commissions, departments, and institutions, including state educational
institutions of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.275 ADMINISTRATION OFFICER.
   The Zoning Administrator in the town will have the principal responsibility
for administration and enforcing or coordinating the enforcement of this
chapter within the Plan Commission’s planning jurisdiction. The Zoning
Administrator shall issue all improvement location permits and sign permits.
The Zoning Administrator shall have the inherent authority to interpret the
Zoning Code, including but not limited to, determining in which zoning
districts a proposed use is permitted or a special exception. All
determinations of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the Board of
Zoning Appeals pursuant to rules adopted by the BZA for the handling of
administrative appeals.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.276 EFFECT ON ANNEXATION OR VACATION ON ZONING.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, areas annexed by the town
shall be converted to the appropriate zoning district.
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley, public way, railroad right-of-way,
waterway, or other similar area is vacated by proper authority, the zoning
districts adjoining each side of vacated areas shall be extended automatically
to the center of the vacated area. All areas included in the vacation shall
then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended
zoning districts. In the event of a partial vacation, the adjoining zoning
district, or zoning district nearest the portion vacated, shall be extended
automatically to include all of the vacated area. Any disputes as to the exact
zoning district boundaries shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator.
Appeals of the Zoning Administrator’s determination may be brought before the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.277 SUMMARY OF POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   The powers and duties of the Town Council are described below.
   (A)   Town Council duties:
      (1)   Adopt, reject or amend the Comprehensive Plan, Strategic Plans,
Zoning Ordinance, or Subdivision Control Ordinance that have been certified and
submitted by the Plan Commission;
      (2)   Adopt, reject or amend proposals to amend or partially repeal the
text of the Comprehensive Plan, Strategic Plans, Zoning Ordinance, or
Subdivision Control Ordinance that has been certified and submitted by the Plan
Commission;
      (3)   Adopt, reject or amend proposals to amend the Official Zoning Map
certified and submitted by the Plan Commission;
      (4)   Adopt, reject or amend proposals for a Planned Development District
that have been certified and   submitted by the Plan Commission;
      (5)   Adopt, reject or amend proposals to adopt or amend a fee schedule
that have been certified and   submitted by the Plan Commission; and
      (6)   All duties as permitted by Indiana State Code.
   (B)   Town Council powers:
      (1)   Initiate amendments to the text of the Comprehensive Plan,
Strategic Plans, Zoning Ordinance, or Subdivision Control Ordinance;
      (2)   Initiate amendments to the Official Zoning Map; and
      (3)   All powers as permitted by Indiana State Code.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.278 SUMMARY OF POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE PLAN COMMISSION.
   The powers and duties of the Plan Commission are described below.
   (A)   Plan Commission duties:
      (1)   Adopt and maintain a Town Council approved Comprehensive Plan,
Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Control Ordinance as authorized under Indiana
State Law;
      (2)   Adopt and maintain rules and procedures for holding meetings,
holding pubic hearings, and administrating and enforcing the Comprehensive
Plan, Zoning Ordinance, and Subdivision Control Ordinance;
      (3)   Maintain complete records of all meetings, hearings,
correspondences, and affairs of the Plan Commission;
      (4)   Record and file bonds and contracts for development and land use
functions;
      (5)   Publish and make available to the public all plans, ordinances, and
other related material that are the responsibility of the Plan Commission;
      (6)   Adopt and maintain a permitting process and seal used to certify
official or approved documents;
      (7)   Certify and submit recommendations to the Town Council including
new versions of and revisions to the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance,
Subdivision Control Ordinance, and Official Zoning Map;
      (8)   Certify and submit recommendations to the Town Council for adopting
a Planned Development District;
      (9)   Approve or deny plats or replats of subdivisions;
      (10)   Approve or deny development plans and amendments to development
plans;
      (11)   Assign street numbers to new lots and structures, renumber lots
and structures, assign street names, and approve or deny proposed street names
in new developments;
      (12)   Establish and maintain a Town Council approved fee schedule that
assigns a fee to permits, processes, and official actions of the Plan
Commission in order to defray the administrative costs of such duties and
powers;
      (13)   Enforce regulations and procedures of the Comprehensive Plan,
Zoning Ordinance, and Subdivision Control Ordinance to the extent of the local
resolutions, ordinances, and State of Indiana Law; and
      (14)   All duties as required by Indiana State Code.
   (B)   Plan Commission powers:
      (1)   Hire, remove, and determine job descriptions for support staff to
the Plan Commission;
      (2)   Establish an executive committee;
      (3)   Seek funding assistance through grant programs as necessary;
      (4)   Distribute copies or summaries of the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning
Ordinance, or Subdivision Control Ordinance to the general public and
development community; and
      (5)   All powers as required by Indiana State Code.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.279 SUMMARY OF POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The powers and duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals are described below.
   (A)   Board of Zoning Appeals duties:
      (1)   Review and hear appeals of decisions made under this chapter by the
Zoning Administrator, Plan Commission;
      (2)   Review, hear and approve or deny all petitions for special
exceptions based on the provisions of this chapter and Indiana State Code;
      (3)   Review, hear, and approve or deny all petitions for variances from
the development standards of this chapter;
      (4)   Review, hear, and approve or deny all petitions for variances of
use regulations in this chapter; and
      (5)   All duties as permitted by Indiana State Code.
   (B)   All powers as permitted by Indiana State Code.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
PROCESSES, PERMITS AND FEES
§ 152.290 TYPES OF PETITIONS.
   (A)   The town hereby requires that an application and filing fee be
submitted for the following formal petitions:
      (1)   Variances (dimensional or use);
      (2)   Special exceptions;
      (3)   Improvement location permit and certificate of compliance where
required;
      (4)   Certificate of occupancy;
      (5)   Subdivision plats/development plans;
      (6)   Planned developments;
      (7)   Zoning amendments (zoning map change);
      (8)   Administrative appeals;
      (9)   Voluntary annexations; and
      (10)   Sign permit.
   (B)   All applications may be obtained through the Zoning Administrator’s
office. Fees shall be paid at the Zoning Administrator’s office at the time of
submittal before the petition can be placed on the agenda.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.291 PROCESSES PER TYPE OF PETITION.
   (A)   Variances. The following procedure applies to variance petitions.
      (1)   Submit a variance application, required information, and
application fee 45 days prior to the regularly scheduled Plan Commission
meeting.
      (2)   Plan Commission will review the variance application and required
information and make a favorable or unfavorable recommendation to the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   BZA will then review the variance application, required
information, and opinion of the Plan Commission in a public meeting. The BZA
may approve, deny or table the petition. Approvals shall only be granted upon
finding of fact that there is a hardship.
   (B)   Special exceptions. The following procedure applies to special
exception petitions.
      (1)   Submit a special exception application, required information, and
application fee 45 days prior to the regularly scheduled Board of Zoning
Appeals meeting.
      (2)   The BZA shall then review the special exception application,
required information, testimony of the petitioner, and testimony of the public
at their next regularly scheduled public meeting. The BZA may approve, deny, or
table the petition.
   (C)   Non-subdivided site development plans. Submit a non-subdivided site
development plan application, required information, and application fee 45 days
prior to the regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.292 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits required. No building or structure shall be erected, moved,
added to, or structurally altered without an improvement location permit and
building permit issued by the Zoning Administrator. No improvement location
permit or building permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator unless
the project is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. The granting
of an ILP does not mean that no easement is present. The Zoning Administrator
is not responsible for locating easements, property lines, or right-of-way
lines, rather the property owner is responsible for determining the existence
of easement rights on the subject property along with property lines and/or
right-of-way lines.
   (B)   Application for an improvement location permit.
      (1)   All applications for improvement location permits shall be
accompanied by:
         (a)   The common address for subject property and parcel number;
         (b)   A site location map showing context around subject property;
         (c)   Plans drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions and shape of
the lot to be built upon;
         (d)   The exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already
existing, if any;
         (e)   The location and dimensions of the proposed building or
alteration;
         (f)   Building setback distances from all property lines, and from
existing and proposed road right of ways; and
         (g)   Elevations of all buildings.
      (2)   The application shall also include such other information as
lawfully may be required by the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator to
determine conformance with and provide for the enforcement of this chapter
including:
         (a)   Elevations of the existing or proposed building or alteration;
         (b)   Detailed description of the existing or proposed uses of the
building and land;
         (c)   The number of families, dwelling units, or rental units the
building is designed to accommodate;
         (d)   Natural, physical or hazardous conditions existing on the lot;
         (e)   Landscape plan;
         (f)   Lighting plan; and
         (g)   Drainage plan.
      (3)   The Administrator can require written approval from the following:
         (a)   State Highway Department;
         (b)   County Highway;
         (c)   County Surveyor;
         (d)   Utilities-Pioneer Water;
         (e)   Leo-Cedarville Sewer District;
         (f)   IDEM Approval;
         (g)   East Allen County Transportation Department;
         (h)   Approved Certified Engineer;
         (i)   Leo-Cedarville Storm Water Utility; and
         (j)   Any other necessary entity.
      (4)   The approved plans and application materials shall be retained by
the Commission or Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Expiration of permits.
      (1)   Initiation of work. If the work described in any improvement
location permit has not begun within four months from the date of issuance,
said permit shall expire; no written notice shall be given to the persons
affected.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall assign a completion date that will
be stated on the face of the ILP permit.
      (3)   Completion of work. If the work described in any improvement
location permit has not been completed by the completion date, said permit
shall expire; no written notice of expiration shall be given to the persons
affected. Work shall not proceed unless and until a new improvement location
permit has been obtained.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator may give a one time extension for up to
six months for work completion. Requests for extensions must be received within
two months of the expiration.
   (D)   Construction according to permits and permit application. Improvement
location permits issued on the basis of plans and applications only authorize
the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications. Any other use, arrangement, or construction not authorized shall
be deemed as a violation of this chapter and subject to an order of removal,
mitigation, or penalty fees.
   (E)   Certificates of compliance (CoC). Any application for an ILP for a
primary structure, or an addition to a primary structure shall also require the
filing of an application for a certificate of compliance and the fee for the
certificate of compliance at the same time as the application for the ILP. The
applicant shall also submit a written authorization to allow the Zoning
Administrator to enter onto the property of the applicant to inspect the
project for purposes of issuing a CoC. At the completion of the project, the
Zoning Administrator shall inspect the project and if the project complies with
the ILP, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a CoC to the Allen County
Building Department.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.293 SCHEDULE OF IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   The town hereby requires that an improvement location permit be obtained for
the following:
   (A)   All residential dwellings;
   (B)   Other detached accessory buildings: sheds, pole barns, gazebos,
fences, as per Leo-Cedarville ordinance;
   (C)   Detached and attached garages and carports;
   (D)   Temporary structures;
   (E)   Signs;
   (F)   Swimming pools;
   (G)   Alterations, modification, remodeling, or additions (residential and
commercial);
   (H)   Tents (commercial only);
   (I)   Demolition;
   (J)   All commercial, industrial, and institutional buildings;
   (K)   Structures other than buildings (including satellite dish, towers,
antennas);
   (L)   Surface and sub-surface drainage work (including land alteration);
   (M)   Street cuts;
   (N)   Curb cuts;
   (O)   Storm sewer hookups;
   (P)   Removal of trees and plants within buffer yards or right-of-ways
otherwise required by this chapter;
   (Q)   Placement or moving of manufactured or mobile homes;
   (R)   Parking lot construction, alteration, or removal;
   (S)   Ponds or lakes;
   (T)   Mineral extraction;
   (U)   Telecommunication facilities; and
   (V)   Any exterior construction that adds to or alters the height, building
materials, existing structure.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.294 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   It shall hereby be declared unlawful and in violation of the provisions of
this chapter for any builder or property owner to allow any new or
significantly remodeled structure to become occupied or utilized prior to:
   (A)   Legally obtaining an improvement location permit;
   (B)   A certificate of compliance being issued by the Zoning Administrator
to the Allen County Building Department; and
   (C)   Receiving a certificate of occupancy permit from the Allen County
Building Department.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.295 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   Until all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in
full, no final action shall be taken on any permit application, appeal, or
petition.
   (B)   Any person or persons who shall initiate construction of a structure
prior to obtaining an improvement location permit or any other required permit
shall pay three times the amount of the normal permit fee.
(Ord. passed - - )
Cross-reference:
   Fee Schedule for Planning Services, see
Appendix A following this chapter
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.310 AUTHORITY.
   The Plan Commission and/or Zoning Administrator are designated to enforce
the provisions, regulations, and intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.311 VIOLATIONS.
   Complaints made pertaining to the Zoning Ordinance shall be investigated by
the Zoning Administrator. Also, any suspected violations by the Plan Commission
or Zoning Administrator shall be investigated. Action may or may not be taken
depending on the findings. The degree of action will be to the discretion of
the investigating person(s) and should reflect what is warranted by the
violation.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.312 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Investigations of property may be done so by the Zoning Administrator
either from a right-of-way without permission of the property owner, or from
the property suspected of a violation once the inspector has described the
purpose of the inspection to the owner, tenant, or occupant at the time of the
inspection, and obtained their authorization.
   (B)   In the event that the investigator(s) is (are) denied entry, the Plan
Commission or Zoning Administrator may apply to a judicial officer of competent
jurisdiction to obtain a search warrant. The application shall include the
purpose, violation(s) suspected, property address, owner’s name if available,
and all relevant facts. Additional information may be necessary and requested
by the court.
   (C)   The warrant issued shall order the owner, tenant, or occupant to
permit entry by the Zoning Administrator for the purposes documented in the
application for the warrant.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.313 RESPONSIBILITY OF VIOLATIONS.
   The owner, tenant, or occupant of any property or building, or part thereof,
shall be responsible for the violation. Architects, builders, developers, or
agents thereof may also be found responsible for the violation if evidence of
their involvement or negligence is found. Ultimately, if fault is not clearly
found in whole or in part in persons other than the owner, the owner shall be
held responsible in whole or in part as warranted by the Plan Commission or
Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.314 VIOLATIONS DURING THE CONSTRUCTION/BUILDING PROCESS.
   (A)   The Plan Commission and/or Zoning Administrator may place a stop-work-
order on any land/property improvement process in violation of this chapter.
Stop-work-orders shall be issued by written letter that shall state the
violation and that work must stop immediately until the matter is resolved.
This letter shall be posted in a conspicuous place or be delivered to the
owner, developer, property manager, tenant, or occupant. The Plan Commission or
Zoning Administrator must meet with the person(s) served the stop-work-order
notice within seven days of a request to meet by such a person. A memorandum of
agreement shall be drafted stating the conditions in which construction or
action may be resumed. This memorandum of agreement must be signed by the
owner, developer, property manager, tenant, or occupant that has caused or is
responsible for the violation and the Zoning Administrator or Plan Commission
President.
   (B)   Reasons for a stop-work-order include:
      (1)   Not complying with development standards and/or any regulations of
the Zoning or Subdivision Control Ordinance;
      (2)   Not obtaining an improvement location permit;
      (3)   Not meeting the conditions or commitments of a special exception,
variance, or building permit;
      (4)   Not meeting the conditions of development commitments, development
plans, detail plans, or covenants that are enforceable by the Plan Commission;
and/or
      (5)   Not obtaining any other permit necessary for site/property
improvement as called out in local code, Zoning Ordinance, or Subdivision
Control Ordinance.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.315 TYPES OF VIOLATIONS.
   The following items shall be deemed civil zoning violations, enforceable by
the Plan Commission and/or Zoning Administrator. Penalties may be imposed based
on the provisions set forth by §
152.999.
   (A)   The placement of a primary structure, secondary structure, sign,
rocks, earth, or any other element determined by the Plan Commission or Zoning
Administrator to not conform to the provisions or explicit intent of the Zoning
Ordinance and that has not specifically been granted.
   (B)   The erection of a primary structure, secondary structure, sign,
accessory structure, or any other element determined by the Plan Commission or
Zoning Administrator to not conform to the provisions or explicit intent of the
Zoning Ordinance and that has not specifically been granted.
   (C)   The maintenance of a primary structure, secondary structure, sign,
accessory structure, or any other element determined by the Plan Commission or
Zoning Administrator to not conform to the provisions or explicit intent of the
Zoning Ordinance and that has not specifically been granted.
   (D)   Failure to obtain an improvement location permit or building permit
when required.
   (E)   Conducting a use or uses that do not comply with the provisions or
explicit intent of the Zoning Ordinance and which have not specifically been
granted.
   (F)   Any failure to comply with the development standards and/or any
regulations of the Zoning Ordinance or Subdivision Control Ordinance,
improvement location permit, or building permit.
   (G)   Proceeding with work under a stop-work-order or a violation of a
memorandum of agreement.
   (H)   Any failure to comply with commitments made in connection with a
rezoning, approval of a development plan, detailed plan, special exception,
variances, or other similar or documentable commitment, including verbal
agreements during official Plan Commission, Town Council, or BZA meetings.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.316 APPEALS TO BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Any persons receiving a notice of violation and a penalty and/or order
to abate may appeal the notice of violation to the Board of Zoning Appeals. An
appeal must be initiated by a written request for appeal delivered to the
Zoning Administrator as set forth in §
152.999.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall set the matter for hearing before the
BZA at the next available regularly scheduled meeting of the BZA (or special
meeting of the BZA called for this purpose) that is not less than 15 days
following the receipt of the notice of appeal. Notice of the date, time and
location of the hearing shall be served on the appellant by certified mail not
less than 15 days prior to the hearing.
The appealing party shall have the right to be represented by an attorney, to
call witnesses, and to submit other evidence at the hearing. The Zoning
Administrator shall present the evidence of the alleged violation at the
hearing and shall bear the burden of proof of establishing the violation.
   (C)   Upon consent of the Town Council, the Zoning Administrator may request
the assistance of the Town Attorney in the presenting the matter before the
BZA. The Town Attorney may serve as legal counsel in this status only if there
has been no ex parte communication between the Town Attorney and the BZA or any
member of the BZA regarding this issue. If such communications has occurred,
the Town Attorney may designate other legal counsel to assist the Zoning
Administrator in presenting the matter.
   (D)   Fines due and enforcement action will be postponed until the BZA has
made a ruling. No additional notices will be issued nor penalties imposed by
the Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator during the pendency of an appeal.
   (E)   If the BZA sustains the violation, the responsible party shall have 30
days from the date of the BZA’s decision to pay any penalties and to abate the
violations before enforcement actions is taken.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.317 APPEALS OR TRIALS.
   (A)   Any person receiving a notice of violation and/or fines may appeal the
violation and/or fine to the Board of Zoning Appeals or to the court of
jurisdiction. A written statement from the person in violation requesting the
appeal, shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator via certified mail at
least three days prior to the date the fine is due.
   (B)   Fines due will be postponed until the BZA has made a ruling as to the
violation and/or fine.
   (C)   No additional notices will be issued by the Plan Commission in the
event the person(s) in violation has (have) submitted a written statement of
their intention to appeal.
(Ord. passed - - )
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.330 GENERAL.
   The definitions contained in this subchapter shall be observed and applied
in the interpretation of all sections in this chapter, except where the context
clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the present tense shall include the
future; words used in the singular number shall include the plural and the
plural the singular; words used in the masculine gender shall include the
feminine.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 152.331 DEFINED WORDS.
   The following terms shall have the following meanings:
   ABANDONMENT. The relinquishment of property or a cessation of the use of the
property for a continuous period of one year by the owner with the intention
neither of transferring rights to the property to another owner nor of resuming
the use of the property.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure which:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1273.png]  
 
      (1)   Is subordinate to a principal building or structure in area,
intent, and/or purpose;
      (2)    Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants
of the principal building, structure, or principal use;
      (3)   Does not alter or change the character of the premises;
      (4)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building,
structure, or use;
      (5)   Conforms to the setback, height, bulk, lot coverage, and other
requirements of this chapter unless otherwise provided for by this chapter;
      (6)   May not be constructed prior to the time of construction of the
principal building or structure; and
      (7)   Is not designed for human occupancy as a dwelling or commercial
use.
   ADMINISTRATOR. See ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   ADULT USE.  See §§
152.125 through
152.144, Development Standards.
   ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.  A planning commission serving a single local
government jurisdiction established as defined under I.C. 36-7-1-2 as amended.
The Leo-Cedarville Plan Commission is an ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agriculture purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, apiculture, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses
for packing, treating, or storing the produce; provided, however, that the
operation of any accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal
agricultural activities. AGRICULTURE shall not include feedlots, stockyards, or
the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
   AGRICULTURE ZONING DISTRICT. Refers to an AG District.
   ALLEY.  A public right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk, or
easement, that provides secondary access for the special accommodation of the
abutting property.
   APARTMENT.  One or more rooms in an apartment building or combination
apartment and commercial building, arranged, intended, designed, or occupied on
a rental basis as a dwelling unit of a single family, an individual, or a group
of individuals.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A multi-family housing structure designed and
constructed to accommodate three or more apartments, in contrast to single or
two-family dwellings converted for multi-family use.
   APPLICANT. The owner, owners, or legal representative of real estate who
makes application to the Plan Commission and/or Board of Zoning Appeals for
action by Said Commission or Board affecting the real estate owned thereby.
   ARTERIAL STREET. See STREET, ARTERIAL.
   ATTACHED BUILDING. A building that is structurally connected to another
building by a foundation, wall, or roof line. Carports, garages, porch awnings
and the like shall be considered ATTACHED BUILDINGS and abide by all
regulations pertaining to primary buildings.
   AUTO REPAIR, MAJOR.  Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or
damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair; and overall painting of vehicles.
   AUTO REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and motor
service to automobiles but excluding any operation specified under AUTOMOBILE
REPAIR, MAJOR.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.  Any building or premises used for the
dispensing, sale, or offering for sale at retail to the public, automobile
fuels stored only in underground tanks and located wholly within the lot lines;
lubricating oil or grease for the operation of automobiles; and the sale and
installation of tires, batteries, other minor accessories, and minor auto
repair, but not including a bulk plant, conducting of major auto repairs,
automobile wrecking, automobile sales, or automobile laundries; provided,
however, that the washing of individual automobiles where no chain conveyor is
employed may be included.
   BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY. An owner occupied or owner employee occupied
residence containing no more than six guest rooms for hire, for lodging by
prearrangement for periods not to exceed three consecutive weeks and providing
for occasional meals daily (usually breakfast) and not a hotel, boarding,
lodging house or motel.
   BERM. A man-made, formed, earth mound of definite height and width used for
landscaping and obscuring purposes, the intent of which is to provide a
transition between uses of differing intensity.
   BILLBOARD.  See SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.
   BLOCK. Property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, intersecting railroad,
intersecting waterway, or the end of a dead end street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1279.png]           [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1277.png]
 
   BOARD. See BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Town of Leo-Cedarville Advisory Board of Zoning
Appeals or any division thereof.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building or part of a building that contains accommodation
facilities for lodging, and typically with meals reserved solely for the
occupants thereof for a fee. BOARDING HOUSES do not include bed and breakfasts,
multi-family dwellings, hotels or motels.
   BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the Plan Commission. All bonds shall be approved by the
Commission wherever a bond is required by these regulations.
   BOULEVARD. See STREET, PARKWAY.
   BUFFER LANDSCAPING. Any trees, shrubs, walls, fences, berms, space, or
related landscaping features required under this chapter on private lots, and
privately maintained, for buffering lots from adjacent properties or public
rights-of-way for the purpose of increasing visual or other aspects of privacy
and aesthetics.
   BUFFER YARDS. An area adjacent to front, side and rear property lines,
measured perpendicularly from adjacent property lines and/or right-of-way
lines, intended to provide attractive spaces to reduce the impacts of proposed
uses on adjacent property or natural features and to screen incompatible uses
from each other. Buffers also help to maintain existing trees or natural
vegetation, to block or reduce noise, glare or other emissions and to maintain
privacy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1281.png]
 
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof, supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, property, or animals; and when
separated by division walls from the ground up and without openings, each
portion of such BUILDING shall be deemed as a separate BUILDING.
   BUILDING AREA.  The horizontal area of the buildings on a lot, measured from
the outside exterior walls, excluding open areas or terraces, unenclosed
porches or decks, and architectural features that project no more than two
feet.
   BUILDING CODE. The town ordinance establishing and controlling the standards
for constructing mechanical equipment, and all forms of permanent structures
and related matters within the town. Also referred to herein as the Leo-
Cedarville Building Code.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE. The setback lines that establishes an area on a lot in
which building can occur.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1283.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1285.png]
 
   BUILDING HEIGHT. See STRUCTURE HEIGHT.
   BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise, or services, or the maintenance or operation of offices,
recreational, or amusement enterprises.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  Refers to the NC, OC, TC, and C1 Districts.
   BZA.  See BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   CAMPGROUND.  Any site, lot, field, or tract of land designed with facilities
for short term occupancy by recreational vehicles and other camping equipment
but not including mobile homes.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN. A proposed schedule of future projects listed in
order of construction priority together with cost estimates and the anticipated
means of financing each project. Major projects requiring the expenditure of
public funds, over and above the annual local government's operating expenses,
for the purchase, construction, or replacement of the capital improvements for
the community are included.
   CEMETERY. Includes any crematory, mausoleum, or mortuary operated in
conjunction with and on the same tract as the CEMETERY.
   CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The community sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities owned and maintained by the Leo-Cedarville Sewer District.
   CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A community water supply system including existing and
new wells and/or surface water sources and intakes, treatment facilities, and
distribution lines and includes such of the above facilities established by the
developer to serve a new subdivision or commercial/ industrial development.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certificate issued prior to the certificate of
occupancy stating that the building, structure or use has been constructed and
complies with the provisions of this chapter, developer commitments, and all
conditions of the Plan Commission or BZA. A posting of bond may be accepted for
incomplete requirements that will be completed as per a written agreement. The
time period and amount of bond shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.  A certificate stating that the occupancy and use
of a building or structure complies with the provisions of the Allen County
Building Code.
   CHILD CARE CENTER.  Any institution operated for the care of children,
licensed pursuant to I.C. 12-17.2-4, et seq., and as defined by I.C. 12-7-2-28-
4.
   CHILD CARE HOME. An establishment providing non-overnight care, supervision,
and protection of children in private residences which is ancillary to the
primary use of residential. The maximum number of children allowed is six at
any given time excluding the children of the property owner.
   CHILD CARE INSTITUTION. 
      (1)   A residential facility that provides for the care, supervision and
protection of children on a 24-hour basis; or
      (2)   An institution that operates under a license issued under I.C. 31-
27-3; provides for delivery of mental health services that are appropriate to
the needs of the individual; and, complies with the rules adopted under I.C. 4-
22-2 by the Division of Family and Children. (For reference see I.C. 12-7-2.)
   CHILDREN’S HOME.  See CHILD CARE INSTITUTION.
   CLINIC.  An establishment in which human patients are admitted for medical
or dental study or treatment and in which the services of at least two
physicians or dentists are provided.
   COLLECTOR STREET. See STREET, COLLECTOR.
   COMMISSION. See PLAN COMMISSION.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Refers to the Leo-Cedarville Comprehensive Plan. The
plan includes goals, objectives and strategies for land use, growth management,
transportation/thoroughfares, community facilities and services, environment
concerns, infrastructure, aesthetics and identity, economic development, and
parks and recreation. The plan was developed and adopted by the Commission
pursuant to the I.C. 36-7-4-500 series and includes any part and/or policies
separately adopted and any amendment to such plan and/or policies, or parts
thereof.
   CONDITION OF APPROVAL. Stipulations or provisions set forth by the Board of
Zoning Appeals or Plan Commission required as a prerequisite for approval of a
petition.
   CONDOMINIUM. Real estate lawfully subject to I.C. 32-1-6 (1-31), (the
Horizontal Property Law), by the recordation of condominium instruments, in
which undivided interests in the common areas and facilities are vested in the
condominium unit owners.
   CONFORMING MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1106, a residence
constructed after January 1, 1981, that exceeds 950 square feet of occupied
space and which is installed as a permanent dwelling unit which may be placed
or constructed providing complies with setback, side and rear yard, parking
space, and minimum square footage requirements for the district in which it is
located, and an under-floor space requirements of this chapter.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN(S). The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat
and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed
for the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of this chapter as a
condition of the approval of the plat.
   COUNTY. Allen County, Indiana.
   COVENANTS. Private and legal restrictions of various kinds on the usage of
lots, typically within a subdivision and applied by the subdivider. In the case
of public health, safety and welfare, covenants may be applied by the
Commission, that are recorded with the plat and deed. COVENANTS can also be
placed on commercial and industrial developments. COVENANTS are not enforceable
by the Plan
Commission or its designees. However, they are enforceable in civil court by
interested or affected parties.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having one end open to traffic and being
permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   DAY CARE CENTER. See CHILD CARE CENTER.
   DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
municipality or public by ordinance, resolution, or entry in the official
minutes as by the recording of a plat.
   DETACHED BUILDING. A building that has no structural connection with the
principal building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1287.png]
 
   DEVELOPER. The owner or legal representative of land proposed to be
subdivided or commercially / industrially utilized. Consent for making
applications for development approval shall be required from the legal owner of
the premises.
   DISTRICT.  A section of the town for which uniform zoning regulations
governing use, height, area, size, intensity of use of buildings and land, and
open spaces about buildings, are established by this chapter.
   DOMESTIC PETS.  Animals commonly used as household pets, protection,
companions, and for the assistance to disabled persons. Domestic pets shall
include animals that are cared for and treated in a manner acceptable for pet
dogs, cats, and birds. Domestic pets shall include, but not be limited to,
dogs, cats, parakeets, parrots, finches, lizards, spiders, guinea pigs,
hamsters, gerbils, rats, mice, rabbits, aquarium fish, pot belly pigs, ferrets,
and snakes if cared for in the manner described above.
   DRIVES, PRIVATE. See STREET, PRIVATE.
   DUPLEX. See DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.
   DWELLING. A building or structure or portion thereof, conforming to all
requirements applicable to the residential use districts and Leo-Cedarville
Building Code, used exclusively for residential occupancy, including single-
family dwelling units, two-family dwelling units, and multi-family dwelling
units, but excluding hotels, boarding houses, and lodging houses.
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit designed and
built in a factory, installed as a permanent residence, which bears a seal
certifying that it was built in compliance with the federal Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law (1974 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.), and
which also complies with the following specifications:
      (1)   Shall have been constructed after January 1, 1981, and must exceed
950 square feet of occupied space per I.C. 36-7-4(d);
      (2)   Is attached to a permanent foundation of masonry construction and
has a permanent perimeter enclosure constructed in accordance with the One and
Two Family Dwelling Code;
      (3)   Has wheels, axles, and towing chassis removed;
      (4)   Has a pitched roof with a minimum rise of 2/12; and
      (5)   Consists of two or more sections which, when joined, have a minimum
dimension of 23 feet in width for at least 60% of its length.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A transportable dwelling unit which is a minimum of
eight feet in width and which is built on a permanent foundation when connected
to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, and electrical system contained therein, and which was
manufactured either:
      (1)   Prior to June 15, 1976 and bears a seal attached under Indiana
Public Law 135, 1971, certifying that it was built in compliance with the
standards established by the Indiana Administrative Building Council; or
      (2)   Subsequent to or on June 15, 1976 and bears a seal, certifying that
it was built in compliance with the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied by
three or more families, with the number of families in residence not exceeding
the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
and occupied by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residential building containing two dwelling units
designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
   DWELLING UNIT.  Any structure or portion thereof designed for or used for
residential purposes as a self-sufficient or individual unit by one family or
other social association of persons and having permanently installed cooking
and sanitary facilities.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to specific persons, the general
public, corporations, utilities, or others, for the purpose of providing
services or access to the property.
   EXPRESSWAY/FREEWAY. Any roadway that operates at a high service level,
consists of limited access, is divided, carries region-wide traffic and is
generally classified as part of the interstate system.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
adoption, or a group of not more than three persons, not related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit in a
dwelling unit.
   FARM.  An area used for agricultural operations, forestry, the operating of
a tree or plant nursery, or the production of livestock and poultry.
   FARM ANIMALS.  Animals commonly used for transportation, food, skins, and
other by-products. FARM ANIMALS include, but are not limited to, horses,
cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, mules, donkeys, miniature horses, miniature
donkeys, camels, emu, ostrich, llamas, alpacas, rabbits, mink, fox, buffalo,
chickens, turkeys, quail, pheasants, and other animals or fowl of similar
characteristics.
   FLOODPLAIN. See Flood Control Ordinance,
Chapter 150.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of all horizontal surface areas of all floors of all
roofed portions of a building enclosed by and within the surrounding exterior
walls or roofs, or to the centerline(s) of party walls separating such
buildings or portions thereof. Floor area of a building shall exclude exterior
open balconies and open porches.
   FLOOR AREA, FINISHED. That portion of floor area constructed, completed, and
usable for living purposes with normal living facilities which includes
sleeping, dining, cooking, working, entertainment, common space linking rooms,
areas for personal hygiene, or combination thereof. Floor area or portion
thereof used only for storage purposes and not equipped for the facilities
mentioned above shall not be considered FINISHED FLOOR AREA.
   FLOOR AREA, MAIN. That portion of finished floor area located on the first
(or nearest ground level) floor of the dwelling unit. The MAIN FLOOR AREA of a
primary structure does not include a garage, carport, deck, unfinished storage,
patio, or open porch.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. See Flood Control Ordinance,
Chapter 150.
   FOUNDATION. The supporting member of a wall or structure.
   FREEWAY. See EXPRESSWAY.
   FRONT LINE. With respect to a building, the foundation line that is nearest
the front lot line.
   FRONT LOT LINE.
      (1)   For an interior or through lot, the line marking the boundary
between the lot and the abutting street right-of-way or a lake or watercourse;
and
      (2)   For a corner lot, the line marking the boundary between the lot and
the shorter of the two abutting street right-of-way segments; except as deed
restrictions specify otherwise.
   FRONT YARD. The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building to the front lot line, extending to the side lines of the lot, and
measured as the shortest distance from that foundation to the front lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1289.png]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1291.png]
 
   FRONTAGE. See LOT FRONTAGE.
   GARAGE. An attached or detached structure whose principal use is to house
motor vehicles or personal property for the accommodation of related dwelling
units or related business establishments.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. See FLOOR AREA, MAIN.
   HARDSHIP. A difficulty with regard to one’s ability to improve land stemming
from the application of the development standards of this chapter, which may or
may not be subject to relief by means of variance. In and of themselves, self-
imposed situations and claims based on a perceived reduction of or restriction
on economic gain shall not be considered hardships. Self-imposed situations
include the purchase of land with actual or constructive knowledge that, for
reasons other than physical characteristics of the property, the development
standards herein will inhibit the desired improvement; any improvement
initiated in violation of the standards of this chapter, any result of land
division requiring variance from the development standards of this chapter in
order to render that site buildable.
   HOME OCCUPATION. The intent of the HOME OCCUPATION provisions are to allow
minimal business practices within certain residential zoning districts.
Further, the intent is not to allow the loss of the residential district’s
character or function as a residential area or neighborhood. To regulate
reasonable business practices and residential character, the development
standards in §
152.131 shall apply.
   HOSPITAL. An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation
of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment, or care for three or more unrelated
individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity, or other
abnormal physical conditions. The term HOSPITAL as used in this chapter does
not apply to institutions operating primarily for treatment of insane persons,
drug addicts, liquor addicts, and other types of cases necessitating restraint
of patients, and the term "hospital" shall not include convalescent, nursing,
shelter, or boarding homes.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person
in charge at all hours. As such, it is open to the public. Compensation is
usually assessed on a day-to-day basis.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.  Any material that prevents absorption of stormwater
into the ground.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit issued under the Zoning Ordinance
prior to receiving a building permit, permitting a person, firm, or corporation
to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or
demolish any building or structure within its jurisdiction, or the pursuit of
changes to the condition of the land.
   INCIDENTAL. A minor occurrence or condition which is customarily associated
with a permitted use and is likely to ensue from normal operations.
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.  Refers to the C2 District.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK.  A planned industrial district not less than 20 acres in
area and is developed within the C3 District, in which buildings and land may
be used for research, office, experimental or testing laboratories, light
industrial, non-nuisance manufacturing, storage and distribution facilities and
other customary uses.
   INDUSTRY, HEAVY. See MANUFACTURING, HEAVY.
   INDUSTRY, LIGHT.  See MANUFACTURING, LIGHT.
   INTERIOR LOT.  See LOT, INTERIOR.
   INTERSTATE.  See EXPRESSWAY.
   JUNK. An automobile, truck, other motor vehicle, large appliances, furniture
or like materials which has been damaged to such an extent that it cannot be
operated under its own power or used and/or will require major repairs before
being made usable. This could also include such a vehicle which does not comply
with state or town vehicle laws or ordinances.
   JUNK YARD. A place, usually outdoors, where waste or discarded used property
other than organic matter, including but not limited to automobiles, farm
implements and trucks, is accumulated and is or may be salvaged for reuse or
resale; this shall not include any industrial scrap metal yard.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL.  A place primarily for keeping four or more dogs, or
other small animals that are ordinarily bred for sale as pets. Also could
include temporary care facility for compensation.
   LANDSCAPING.  The improvements of a lot with grass, shrubs, trees, and other
vegetation and/or ornamental objects. LANDSCAPING may include pedestrian walks,
flower beds, berms, fountains and other similar natural and man-made objects
designed and arranged to produce an aesthetically pleasing effect.
   LIVESTOCK. See FARM ANIMALS.
   LOCAL STREET.  See STREET, LOCAL.
   LODGING HOUSE. See BOARDING HOUSE.
   LOT. A piece, parcel or tract of land designated by its owner or developer
to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under single ownership or
control. There are generally three types of lots identified in this chapter:
Interior Lots, Corner Lots, and Through Lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1293.png]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1295.png]
 
   LOT, BUILDABLE. See LOT, IMPROVED.
    LOT, CORNER .  A lot situated at the intersect ion of two streets or which
fronts a str eet on two or more sid es forming an int erior angle of less tha n
135 degrees.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1297.png]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1299.png]  [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-
1301.png]
 
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building
and any accessory structures.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1303.png]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1305.png]
 
   LOT, DEVELOPED. A lot with buildings or structures.
   LOT FRONTAGE. All property of a lot fronting on a street right-of-way, as
measured between side lot lines.
   LOT, IMPROVED.  A lot upon which a structure or building can be constructed
and occupied. The lot shall have frontage on and access to an improved street,
meet minimal setbacks, and have all necessary utilities available to the lot
such as sewer, water, electricity, etc.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or a through lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1307.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1309.png]  [https://
export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-
1311.png]
 
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which is a part of a subdivision recorded in the
office of the County Recorder, or a parcel or lot described by metes and
bounds, and a description of what has been so recorded.
   LOT, THROUGH.  A lot fronting on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets, or abutting two streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of
the lot. Also includes lots fronting on both a street and a watercourse or
lake.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1313.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1315.png]
 
      LOT WIDTH.  The distan ce between the side lot lines as meas ured on the
front lot line. Cul-de-Sac front lot widths shall be measured at the front yard
set back line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1317.png]  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1319.png]
 
   MANEUVERING SPACE.  An open space in a parking area which:
      (1)   Is immediately adjacent to a parki ng space;
      (2)   Is used for and/or is necessary for turning, backing or driving
forward a motor vehicle into such parking space; but
      (3)   Is not used for the parking of or stora ge of motor vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. See DW ELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parce l of land containing two or more spaces
(sites), with requi red improvements and utilities, that are leased for long
term placement of mobile home dwellings and/or manufactured home dwellings, and
shall include any street used or intended for use as part of the facilities of
such mobile home park. A mobile home park does not involve sales of mobile home
dwellings or manufactured home dwellings in which unoccupied units are parked
for inspection or sale.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods and
materials using processes that ordinarily have greater than minimal impacts on
the environment, or that otherwise do not constitute light manufacturing, and
which may include open uses and outdoor storage. Heavy manufacturing generally
includes processing and fabrication of products made from extracted or raw
materials. Heavy manufacturing shall not include any use that is otherwise
listed specifically in any zoning district as a permitted use or special
exception.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods and
materials using processes that ord inarily do not create noise, smoke, fume,
odors, glare or hea lth or safety hazards outside of the building or lot where
suc h assembly, fabrication, or processing of goods are ho used entirely within
an enclosed building. Light manufacturing generally includes processing and fab
rication of finished products predominantly from pre viously prepared
materials. Light manufacturing shall not include any use that is otherwise
listed specifically in any zoning district as a permitted use or special
exception.
   MARKER / MONUMENT (SURVEY). A stake, pipe, rod , nail, or any other object
which is intended to be a per manent point for record purposes.
   MASTER PLAN. See COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   MOBILE HOME. See DWELLING, MOBILE HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  See MANUFACTURED H OME PARK.
   MOTEL. An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached living
or sleeping accommodations with bathroom and closet space, located on a single
zoning lot, and designed for use by transient automobile tourists. A motel
furnishes customary services such as maid service and laundering of linen,
telephone, secretarial, or desk service, and the use and upkeep of furniture.
   MOTOR HOME. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any passenger vehicle, truck, tractor, tractor-trailer,
truck-trailer, trailer, or semi-trailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING. A building, structure, or portion thereof, which
was designed, erected, or structurally altered such that it does not conform to
the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use which does not conform with the use regulations of
the district in which it is located.
   NURSING HOME. SEE REST HOME.
   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.  A map of the Town of Leo-Cedarville, Indiana, that
legally denotes the boundaries of zoning districts as they apply to the
properties within the planning jurisdiction.
   OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS. Any premises not located within the area of the
property to be subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the
applicant for subdivision approval, upon which is located improvements required
by or related to the property to be subdivided.
   OPEN SPACE.  An area of land not covered by buildings, parking structures,
or accessory uses except for recreational structures. OPEN SPACE may include
nature areas; streams and flood plains; meadows or open fields containing
baseball, football, and soccer fields, golf courses, swimming pools, bicycle
paths, etc. OPEN SPACE does not include street rights-of-way, platted lot area,
private yard, patio areas, or land scheduled for future development.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. See STORAGE, OUTDOOR.
   OWNER. Any person, group, of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under these
regulations, or their legal representative.
   PARCEL. See LOT.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. Space within a public or private parking area for
the storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under a one and
one-half ton capacity.
   PARKWAY. See STREET, PARKWAY.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. An amount of money or other negotiable security paid by
the subdivider, developer, or property owner or his surety to the town which
guarantees that the subdivider will perform all actions required by the town
regarding an approved plat or in other situations as stated forth in this
chapter and/or as deemed by the Zoning Administrator, and provides that if the
subdivider, developer, or property owner defaults and fails to comply with the
provisions of his approval, the subdivider, developer, or property owner or his
surety will pay damages up to the limit of the bond, or the surety will itself
complete the requirements of the approval.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION.  A structural system for transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent perimeter structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground, except for the necessary openings, constructed in accordance with the
One and Two Family Dwelling Code.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, unit of
government, or any other group that acts as a unit, as well as a natural
person.
   PETS. See DOMESTIC PETS.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The Advisory Plan Commission of the Town of Leo-Cedarville.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A large-scale unified development meeting the
requirements for zoning approval under the provisions of §§
152.155 through
152.172, Planned Developments, of this chapter. Generally a PLANNED DEVELOPMENT
consists of a parcel or parcels of land, controlled by a single landowner, to
be developed as a single entity which does not correspond in size of lots, bulk
or type of buildings, density, lot coverage, and required open space to the
regulations established in any district of this chapter. This may result in
more attractive and affordable development than conventional developments would
allow. Clustered housing (dwellings built in innovative lot arrangements around
common open space) and zero lot line housing (dwellings built immediately
adjacent to lot lines) are possible as part of PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS. A PLANNED
DEVELOPMENT requires approval through a zoning map amendment.
   PLAT. A map or chart that shows a division of land and is intended to be
filed for record.
   PLAT, PRIMARY.  The PRIMARY PLAT, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-700 series, is the
plat and plans upon which the approval of a proposed subdivision are based. The
PRIMARY PLAT and plans shall be subject to public notice and public hearing
according to law and according to Plan Commission rules. (Under former state
statutes, the PRIMARY PLAT was referred to as a “preliminary” plat.)
   PLAT, SECONDARY. The SECONDARY PLAT, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-700 series, is
the final plat document in recordable form. A SECONDARY PLAT shall
substantially conform with the preceding primary plat, or section thereof. The
SECONDARY PLAT and plans are not subject to public notices and public hearings.
SECONDARY PLAT approval is an administrative function to be carried out in the
manner prescribed by the written rules of the Advisory plan Commission, either
in public meeting of by Zoning Administrator.
   PORCH. A roofed-over structure projecting out from the wall or walls of a
main structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY. A difficulty with regard to one’s ability to improve
land stemming from regulations of this chapter. A practical difficulty is not a
“hardship,” rather it is a situation where the owner could comply with the
regulations within this chapter, but would like a variance from the development
standards to improve his site in a practical manner. For instance, a person may
request a variance from a side yard setback due to a large tree which is
blocking the only location that would meet the development standards for a new
garage location.
   PRIMARY ARTERIAL. See STREET, PRIMARY ARTERIAL.
   PRIMARY PLAT.  See PLAT, PRIMARY.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE.  The building or structure in which the
principal use of the lot or premises is located or conducted. With respect to
residential uses, the PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE shall be the main
dwelling.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from an
accessory use. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either a permitted use or a special
exception.
   PRIVATE STREET. See STREET, PRIVATE.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. An office used by members of a recognized profession
such as architects, artists, dentists, engineers, lawyers, musicians,
physicians, surgeons or pharmacists, and realtors or insurance agents and
brokers.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. Any storm drainage facility, street, highway, parkway,
sidewalk, pedestrian-way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement,
utility, or other facility for which the local government may ultimately assume
the responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement for which local government responsibility is established.
   PUBLIC/PRIVATE PARKING AREA. A group of parking spaces in an open area not
including any part of a street or alley, designed or used for temporary parking
of motor vehicles.
   PUBLIC STREET. See STREET, PUBLIC.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, or corporation duly authorized to furnish
under public regulation to the public, electricity, gas, steam, telephone,
fiber optics, transportation, water, or sewerage systems.
   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line that is opposite the front lot line and farthest
from it, except that for a triangular or other irregularly-shaped lot, the line
ten feet long, parallel to the front lot line, and wholly within the lot, that
is farthest from the lot line.
(SEE GRAPHICS FOR REAR YARD)
   REAR YARD.  The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building to a rear lot line and th at rear lot line, extending to the sidelines
of the lot, and measured as the shortest distance from the foundation to the
rear lot line. The REAR YARD of a corner lot shall be that yard at the opposite
end of the lot from the front yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1321.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1323.png]
 
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A portable vehicular structure designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel and vacation uses which:
      (1)   Is identified on the unit by the manufacturer as a travel trailer;
      (2)   Is not more than eight feet six inches in body width;
      (3)   Is of any weight provided its body length does not exceed 40 feet;
      (4)   Is a structure mounted on an automobile or truck; and
      (5)   Is designed to be used for sleeping and human habitation.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK.  Any site, lot, field, or tract of land under
single ownership, or ownership of two or more people, designed with facilities
for short term occupancy by recreational vehicles only.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR.  A land surveyor properly licensed and registered
or through reciprocity permitted to in the State of Indiana.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer properly licensed and
registered or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the State of
Indiana.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. A flood having a peak discharge which can be equalled or
exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period, as calculated by a method
and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the Indiana Natural
Resources Commission. Further, this flood is equivalent to a flood having a 1%
probability of occurrence in any given year. See Flood Control Ordinance,
Chapter 150.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the flood plains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to
efficiently carry and discharge peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river
or stream and, is that area covered by floodwaters in significant downstream
motion or covered by significant volumes of stored water during the occurrence
of the regulatory flood. See Flood Control Ordinance,
Chapter 150.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  Refers to the R1, R2, R3, R4 and MP Districts.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED (LARGE). A residential
facility which provides residential services for more than eight
developmentally disabled individuals as described in I.C. 12-28-4.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED (SMALL). A residential
facility which provides residential services for eight developmentally disabled
individuals or less as described in I.C. 12-28-4.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE MENTALLY ILL. A residential facility which
provides residential services for mentally ill individuals as described in I.C.
12-28-4. No two RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR THE MENTALLY ILL shall be within
3,000 feet of one another in the Leo-Cedarville planning jurisdiction as stated
in Indiana Code.
   REST HOME/NURSING HOME. A private home for the care of the aged or infirm,
or any other person in need of nursing care and which does not contain
equipment for surgical care or for treatment of disease or injury, and is not
primarily designed for mental patients or alcoholics.
   RE-SUBDIVISON.  A change in a recorded subdivision plat if such change
affects any street layout or area reserved thereon for public use or any lot
line; or if it affects any map or plan legally recorded prior to the adoption
of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
transportation facilities, public utilities, or other special public uses.
Rights-of-way intended for any use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to the public use by the maker of the plat on which such
right-of-way is established.
   ROW.  See RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   ROAD. See STREET.
   SATELLITE DISH/ANTENNA. An apparatus capable of receiving communications
from a transmitter relay located in a planetary orbit, or broadcasted signals
from transmitting towers.
   SCHOOL.    A public or private institution which offers instruction in any
of the branches of learning and study comparable to that taught in the public
schools under the Indiana School Laws, including pre-kindergarten,
kindergarten, elementary school, and junior and senior high schools, but
excluding trade, business, or commercial schools.
   SCRAP METAL YARD.  
      (1)   A general industrial use established independent or ancillary to
and connected with another general industrial use, which is concerned
exclusively in new and salvaged metal pipes, wire, beams, angles, rods,
machinery, parts, filings, clippings, and all other metal items of every type,
and which acquires such items incidental to its connection with the other
general industrial use or by purchase, consignment or bailment which stores,
grades, processes, melts, cuts, dismantles, compresses, cleans, or in any way
prepares said items for reuse by the connected other general industrial use or
for sale and shipment and use in other industries or businesses including open
hearth, electric furnaces and foundry operations; such an establishment shall
not include junk yards, dumps, or automobile graveyards.
      (2)   The storage, dealing in or the permitting of the accumulation of
significant quantities of combustible, organic or nonmetal scrap materials such
as wood, paper, rags, garbage, bones and shattered glass on the premises of
such an establishment will disqualify it from being classified as a SCRAP METAL
YARD, and the same will be classified as a junk yard.
   SECONDARY ARTERIAL. See STREET, SECONDARY ARTERIAL.
   SECONDARY PLAT. See PLAT, SECONDARY.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the building line and a lot
line or right-of-way.
   SHARED HOUSING.  Any dwelling unit which the owner allows to be occupied by
unrelated persons living as a single housekeeping unit, provided that the
number of occupants does not exceed twice the number of bedrooms, and that the
total number of occupants does not exceed four regardless of the number of
bedrooms.
   SIDE LOT LINE. A lot boundary line other than a front or rear lot line.
(SEE GRAPHIC UNDER "SIDE YARD")
   SIDE YARD.  The horizontal space between the nearest foundation of a
building to the side lot line and that side lot line, unoccupied other than by
architectural appurtenances projecting not more than 24 inches into that space;
steps or terraces not higher than the level of the first floor of the building;
and open lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies projecting not over 24 inches into that space.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1325.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1327.png]
 
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display, or illustration which is
affixed to, painted, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure, or piece of land, and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization, or business.
   SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than
upon the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed. Also
called billboard or off-premise sign.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. An on-premise advertising device not fixed to a permanent
foundation, for the purpose of conveying information, knowledge, or ideas to
the public about a subject related to the activities on the premises upon which
it is located.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. The authorization of a use that is designated as such by
this chapter as being permitted in the district concerned if it meets special
conditions, and upon application, is specifically authorized by the BZA.
   STORAGE, OUTDOOR.  The outdoor accumulation of goods, junk, vehicles,
equipment, products, or materials for permanent or temporary holding.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of
a STORY exceeding 14 feet in height shall be considered as an additional STORY
for each 14 feet or fraction thereof.
   STREET. Any vehicular way that:
      (1)   Is an existing state, county, or municipal roadway;
      (2)   Is shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law;
      (3)   Is approved by other official action; or
      (4)   Is shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the office of the
county recording officer prior to the appointment of a planning board and the
grant to such board to review plats; includes the land between the street
lines, whether improved or unimproved.
   STREET, COLLECTOR.  A street designed to facilitate the collection of
traffic from local streets and to provide circulation within neighborhood areas
and convenient ways to reach arterial streets, as depicted by the Thoroughfare
Plan element within the Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street designed primarily to provide access to abutting
properties and discourage through traffic, as depicted by the Thoroughfare Plan
element within the Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET, PARKWAY. A street with limited access (curb cuts), restricted
parking, a substantial amount of landscaping usually including a landscaped
median, and that collects and distributes traffic to and from secondary
arterials, as depicted by the Thoroughfare Plan within the Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET, PRIMARY ARTERIAL. A street with access control, restricted parking,
and that collects and distributes traffic to and from secondary arterials, as
depicted by the Thoroughfare Plan element within the Comprehensive Plan.
   STREET, PRIVATE. Vehicular streets and driveways, paved or unpaved, which
are wholly within private property except where they intersect with other
streets within public rights-of-way and maintained by the owner(s).
   STREET, PUBLIC. All property dedicated or intended for public highway,
freeway, or roadway purpose or subject to public easements therefore.
   STREET, SECONDARY ARTERIAL.  Street with signals at important intersections
and stop signs on side streets, and that collects and distributes traffic to
and from collector streets, as depicted by the Thoroughfare Plan element within
the Comprehensive Plan.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS.  Any change in the supporting members of a building
or structure such as bearing walls, partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any substantial change in the footprint or increasing size of living space.
Also, substantial roofing and siding work when repairs are made to the
structure beneath.
   STRUCTURE HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the lot ground level
to the highest point of the roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1329.png]
 
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of a parent tract or other piece of land into at least
two smaller lots or the combination of two or more smaller lots into one lot so
that, either now or in the future, the subdivider can do any of the following
with one or more of the subdivided lots:
         (a)   Transfer ownership;
         (b)   Construct buildings; and/or
         (c)   Create new building sites for leasehold.
      (2)   The actual location, shape and size of a parent tract to be divided
is determined by the official record of the last transfer of its ownership
transacted before this Zoning Ordinance was enacted or by its last conditional
transfer of ownership by recorded contract transacted before this Zoning
Ordinance was enacted. The following kinds of divisions are not SUBDIVISIONS
and are exempt from the rules of this chapter:
         (a)   A division of land into two or more tracts all of which are
least ten acres in size and have at least 200 feet of road frontage;
         (b)   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts to
correct errors in an existing legal description, provided that no additional
principal use building sites are created by the division;
         (c)   A division of land pursuant to an allocation of land in the
settlement of a decedent's estate or a court decree for the distribution of
property;
         (d)   A division of land for federal, state or local government to
acquire street right-of-way;
         (e)   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts between
adjoining lots provided that no additional principal use building sites are
created by the division. The lots so created hereunder shall have only one
principal use building site; and
         (f)   Property legally divided prior to adoption of this chapter.
   SWIMMING POOL.  A self-contained body of water at least 18 inches deep and
eight feet in diameter or width and used for recreational purposes. It may be
above or below ground level, and shall be considered an accessory structure/
use.
   TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit issued under this chapter
permitting a temporary use or structure not to exceed two months.
   TEMPORARY USE/STRUCTURE. A land use or structure established for a limited
and fixed period of time with the intent to discontinue such use or structure
upon the expiration of the time period.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN.  The plan, now and hereafter adopted, which includes a
street plan, sets forth the location, alignment, dimensions, identification,
and classification of existing and proposed streets, and other thoroughfares.
   TOWN. The Town of Leo-Cedarville, Indiana.
   USE.  The purposes of which land, building, or structure thereon is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied, maintained, let,
or leased.
   VARIANCE, DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.  A specific approval granted by a Board of
Zoning Appeals in the manner prescribed by this chapter, to deviate from the
development standards (such as height, bulk, area) that the chapter otherwise
prescribes.
   VARIANCE, USE.  The approval of a use other than that prescribed by this
chapter, an act granted by I.C. 36-7-4-918.3.
   VILLAMINIUM. A single-family dwelling on a single lot or parcel that may
have a common external appearance and setback with adjoining dwellings, and
community association or cooperative analysis.
   YARD.  A space on the same lot with a principal building that is open and
unobstructed except as otherwise authorized by this chapter.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The officer appointed by and/or delegated the
responsibility for the administration of this chapter’s regulations by the
Advisory Plan Commission. The Plan Commission is hereby designated as the
Administrator for the purpose of administering and enforcing this chapter and
is the town officer referred to herein wherever the term Administrator or
Zoning Administrator appears.
   ZONING MAP. See OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2021-08, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 152.999 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Issuance of notice.
      (1)   If during a single inspection, the Zoning Administrator shall find
one or more violations of this chapter (as set forth in §
152.315), the following monetary fines shall be imposed:
         (a)   Single Violation         $75
         (b)   Second Violation         $30
         (c)   Each Additional Violation      $25 each
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a notice of violation and
order to abate to the responsible party as determined by §
152.313. The notice shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The date and time of issuance of the notice;
         (b)   The specific violation(s) for which the notice is issued;
         (c)   The date and location of the violation(s);
         (d)   The amount of the penalty that is imposed;
         (e)   The name and address of the responsible party as determined by §
152.313;
         (f)   Notice that the responsible party must respond to the notice in
writing within 15 days either admitting or denying the violation;
         (g)   Instructions that the responsible party may pay the penalties
and provide proof that the violations have been corrected in lieu of admission
or denial;
         (h)   Notice that further penalties and legal action may ensue if the
responding party does not respond to the notice within 15 days;
         (i)   Notice of the right to appeal the notice of violation as set
forth in §
152.316 which shall include a statement that the appealing party has the right
to be represented by an attorney, and the right to produce evidence before the
BZA; and
         (j)   The signature of the Zoning Administrator, which may be affixed
manually or electronically.
   (B)   Failure to respond to initial notice / second and third notices.
      (1)   If a responsible party fails to respond to an initial notice of
violation within 15 days, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a second notice
of violation. If a responsible party fails to respond to the second notice of
violation, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a third notice of violation.
Upon the issuance of the third notice of violation, additional penalties shall
be imposed as follows:
         (a)   Second notice + $25;
         (b)   Third notice + $50.
      (2)   All subsequent notices shall contain the information contained in
the original notice but shall state that they are a second or third notice and
shall identify the additional penalty.
      (3)   Failure to respond within 15 days of a third notice shall be deemed
an admission of the violation and shall constitute a waiver of the right to
appeal the violations(s) to the BZA. Following 15 days after a third notice of
violation, the Zoning Administrator shall refer the matter to the Town Attorney
for civil enforcement action.
   (C)   Response to notice by admission.
      (1)   Payment of a penalty shall be deemed an admission of a violation
and shall constitute a waiver of the right to appeal a notice of violation.
      (2)   If a party admits a violation in writing within 15 days of any
notice, such admission shall also be deemed a waiver of the right to appeal. In
such circumstance, the party shall be given upon request an additional 30 days
to pay the penalty (including any penalty for second and third notices) and to
abate the violation(s) and no further penalties or enforcement actions shall be
taken during this period (however, any pending stop work orders shall remain in
effect, and violations of such orders shall warrant immediate legal actions).
The Zoning Administrator may accept a late payment of a penalty (i.e. after the
expiration of 30 days) along with an additional $10 penalty, if the violations
have been abated within the 30-day time period and provided that the violation
has not yet been referred to the Town Attorney.
      (3)   If the responsible party fails to pay the penalty and to abate the
violation(s) within that 30-day period, the Zoning Administrator shall refer
the matter to the Town Attorney for civil enforcement action. However, the
Zoning Administrator shall have the discretion to grant a responsible party and
additional 30 days upon request to pay the penalties and/or abate the violation
but only if the responsible party can show good cause for the extension. The
Zoning Administrator may not grant additional extensions after the matter has
been referred to the Town Attorney for enforcement.
   (D)   Response to notice by denial.
      (1)   If, within 15 days of any notice, the responsible party appears and
denies in writing the violation(s) in the notice, the Zoning Administrator
shall evaluate the reasons given by the person and if necessary perform and
investigation to determine whether there is still cause to believe that a
violation exists.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may at his or her discretion refer the
issue to the full Plan Commission for consideration.
      (3)   If the Zoning Administrator or Plan Commission determines that
there remains cause to believe that a violation exists, the responsible party
will be informed in writing of this decision and his or her right to appeal the
decision to the Board of Zoning Appeals. An appeal must be initiated in
writing, signed by the appellant, and signed and dated when received by the
Zoning Administrator. A written notice of appeal must be received by the Zoning
Administrator within 15 days of issuance of the written decision of the Zoning
Administrator or Plan Commission. If no written request for appeal is received,
the responsible party shall have an additional 15 days (i.e. 30 days from the
date of the written determination) to correct the violation and pay the
penalty.
      (4)   Appeals shall be processed pursuant to §
152.316.
   (E)   Civil enforcement.
      (1)   If a person upon whom a notice of violation is served pursuant to
this chapter:
         (a)   Appears and denies the violation, but does not initiate a timely
appeal and otherwise fails to pay the penalty or correct the violation within
30 days of the final determination;
         (b)   Fails to appear and either admits or denies the violation within
15 days of issuance of the third notice of violation;
         (c)   Fails to pay the specified civil penalty or to abate all
violations within 30 days after admitting the violation (along with any duly
granted extensions); or
         (d)   Fails to pay the specified civil penalty or to abate all
violations within 30 days of the final decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals,
   then the Zoning Administrator shall refer the violation to the Town Attorney
for appropriate enforcement action. If civil action becomes necessary the Town
Attorney shall seek injunctive relief and shall seek to recover the unpaid
penalties with prejudgment interest running from the date of the issuance of
the final notice, plus costs and attorneys fees.
      (2)   Once a matter has been referred to the Town Attorney for
enforcement, the Town Council must approve any offers to compromise that
involve a payment of less than the full amount of any penalty plus costs and
attorneys fees.
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of §
152.132 shall be fined no less than $50 nor more than $250 for each offense.
Each day that such violation continues shall be regarded as a separate offense.
(Ord. passed - - )
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE FOR PLANNING SERVICES
FEE SCHEDULE FOR PLANNING SERVICES
JANUARY 2008
IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS (ILP)
IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS (ILP)
The following fee schedule shall apply to all permits and processes outlined in
this chapter:
1.   ILP for residential structure                        $ 175.00
2.   ILP for residential addition                         100.00
3.   ILP for residential accessory structure              20.00
4.   ILP for non-residential (commercial) structure or    250.00
addition
5.   Certificate of Compliance for primary structures and 45.00
addition
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
1.   Use variance                                         $ 255.00
   Per additional use variances                           50.00
   Publication cost                                       50.00
2.   Variance of Development Standards                    255.00
   Per additional development standard variance           50.00
   Publication cost                                       50.00
3.   Special Exceptions                                   255.00
   Publication cost                                       50.00
4.   Administrative Appeal                                380.00
   Per additional administrative appeal                   50.00
   Publication cost                                       50.00
PLANNING COMMISSION
1.   Review of Primary Plat                               $ 700.00
2.   Review of Secondary Plat                             700.00
3.   Review of Primary Development Plan                   700.00
4.   Review of Secondary Development Plan                 700.00
                                                             Current Cost of
5.   Petition for Vacation                                Certified Mailing
                                                             and Publication of
                                                             Notice
6.   Petition for Rezoning                                700.00
7.   Review of Primary Minor Plat                         400.00
SIGNS
1.   All permanent types                                  75.00
2.   Temporary signs                                      20.00
 
(Ord. passed - - )
APPENDIX B: COUNTY ZONING PRE- ANNEXATION MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.png]
 
APPENDIX C: TOWN OF LEO-CEDARVILLE ZONE MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b8ba813d2edfadbc71032feb726fb0757545d6c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1343.png]
 
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   VACATIONS
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
III.   AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   PROPERTY TRANSFERS
TABLE I: VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.  Date Passed Description
Ord. 5.0-2-1   11-5-1996   Vacating a 50-foot right-of-way known as Sherwood
                           Drive.
Ord. 5.0-2-2   11-5-1996   Vacating three sections of an alley.
Ord. 2000-11-1 12-5-2000   Vacating a stub street.
Ord. 2001-02   7-3-2001    Vacating a platted non-developed stub street, Powder
                           Mill Court, Metea Valley Section 1.
Ord. 2003-07   12-16-2003  Vacating a public right-of-way (Multirose Addition).
Ord. 2007-03   4-10-2007   Vacating a public right-of-way (between lots 53, 54,
                           57, 58, and 60 in the town).
Ord. 2008-05   8-5-2008    Vacating a public right-of-way (between lots 48 and
                           65 in the town).
Ord. 2017-07   10-26-2017  Vacating a public right-of-way (alley north of Lot
                           29 in Schlaters Addition).
Ord. 2018-02   8-9-2018    Vacating a public right-of-way (platted alleyway
                           between State Road 1 and Manning Street).
Ord. 2022-07   5-3-2022    Vacating two alleys (parallel to Pearl Street and
                           Main Street).
                           Vacating two alleys (parallel to Black Street and
Ord. 2023-03   4-18-2023   Washington Street, and parallel to Walnut Street and
                           Cherry Street).
                           Vacating two alleys (between Cedarville lots 42 and
Ord. 2023-05   8-2-2023    43, and Cedarville lots 41, 42, 43, 44, 69, 70, 71,
                           and 72).
                          
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. 7.1-0    6-6-1996    Reclassification of property to RSP-1/planned single-
                          family residential.
Ord. 7.1-1    2-3-1998    Reclassification of property to C-1(P)/planned
                          limited commercial.
Ord. 7.1-2    6-10-1998   Reclassification of property to RSP-1/planned single-
                          family residential.
Ord. 7.1-3    6-10-1998   Reclassification of property to RSP-1/planned single-
                          family residential.
Ord. 3.4-3    9-1-1998    Reclassification of property to C-1(P)/planned
                          limited commercial.
                          Reclassification of Lots 9 and 10 of the platted town
Ord. 3.4-4    7-6-1999    of Cedarville, according to plat record C, pages 113
                          and 114, as recorded in the office of the County
                          Recorder, from R-4 to NC.
Ord. 2003-04  5-20-2003   Revision of the zoning ordinance to provide for the
                          sale of fireworks within certain zoning districts.
Res. 2012-08R 3-27-2012   Establishing an economical revitalization area.
Ord. 2019-02  1-15-2019   Reclassification of property from R-4 to DC.
Ord. 2022-6   4-19-2022   Reclassification of property to R-3.
Ord. 2023-08  11-7-2023   Reclassification of property to R-3.
                         
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./    Date   Description
Res. No. Passed
Ord.     12-4-  Approving an agreement for services with the state’s Association of Cities
2007-    2007   and Towns.
08   
Res.     1-3-   Agreement with Nationwide Investment Advisors, LLC for financial management.
2012-02R 2012
Res.     4-8-   Approving contract with the City of New Haven for processing ordinance
2014-05R 2014   violations.
Ord.     8-5-   Adopting interlocal agreement with the Northeast Allen County Fire
2023-06  2023   Protection District.
               
 
TABLE IV: PROPERTY TRANSFERS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 2012-15R 9-11-2012   Purchase of real estate from the City of Fort Wayne.
Res. 2014-04R 3-25-2014   Purchase of two tracts of land.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                    Code Section
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
1-1-7-1                       92.19
Title 3                       33.06
3-5-2-26                      34.25
3-5-2-40.1                    33.06
3-5-9-5                       33.06
3-6-6-1                       30.56
3-6-6-2                       30.57
3-6-6-3                       30.57
3-6-6-5                       30.58
3-6-7-1                       30.62
3-8-2-2.5                     30.52
3-8-5                         30.51
3-8-5-2(a)                    31.06
3-8-5-2(c)                    31.06
                              30.47,
3-8-5-3                       30.53,
                              30.54
3-8-5-10                      31.06
3-8-6                         30.51,
                              31.06
3-10-3-4(b)                   32.15
3-10-6                        30.52
3-10-6-2.5                    30.49
3-10-6-2.5(d)(1)              30.46
3-10-6-2.6                    30.46
3-10-6-5                      30.46,
                              30.50
3-10-7                        30.45
3-10-7-1.5                    30.47
3-10-7-2                      30.48,
                              30.50
3-10-7-2.5                    30.49
                              30.46,
3-10-7-2.7                    30.50,
                              30.51
3-10-7-3                      30.51
                              30.48,
3-10-7-4                      30.51,
                              30.53
3-10-7-6                      30.46,
                              30.52
3-10-7-6.1                    30.52
3-10-7-7                      30.53
3-10-7-11                     30.53
3-10-7-12                     30.53
3-10-7-13                     30.53
3-10-7-14                     30.53
3-10-7-15                     30.54
3-10-7-16                     30.53
3-10-7-17                     30.55
3-10-7-18                     30.53
3-10-7-19                     30.53
3-10-7-20                     30.53
3-10-7-21                     30.53
3-10-7-22                     30.56
3-10-7-23                     30.56
3-10-7-24                     30.57
3-10-7-25                     30.58,
                              30.60
3-10-7-26                     30.59,
                              30.61
3-10-7-27                     30.60,
                              30.61
3-10-7-28                     30.61
3-10-7-29                     30.62
3-10-7-30                     30.63
3-10-7-31                     30.64
3-10-7-32                     30.65
3-10-7-33                     30.66,
                              30.67
3-10-7-34                     30.67
3-10-7-35                     30.68
3-11                          30.65
3-11-2                        30.65
3-11-2-9                      30.65
3-11-2-10(f)                  30.65
3-12-4                        30.66
3-13-9-4                      30.46
4-22-2                        152.331
5-1                           32.33
                              30.26,
                              32.21,
                              32.22,
5-3-1                         32.31,
                              32.33,
                              151.041,
                              152.188
5-3-1-2                       152.255
5-3-1-4                       152.255
5-4-1                         31.01
5-4-1-18                      32.26
5-4-1-18(c)                   31.08
5-11-10-1.6                   33.01
5-11-10-1.6(c)(1) - (c)(4)    33.01
5-12-1.5-6.1                  31.03
5-13-9                        34.70
5-13-9 et seq.                34.65
5-13-9-2.5                    34.70
5-13-9-3                      34.70
5-13-9-4                      34.70,
                              34.71
5-13-9-5                      34.69,
                              34.70
5-13-9-5.3                    34.70
5-13-9-5.6                    34.71
5-13-9-5.7                    34.71,
                              34.73
5-13-9-11                     34.70
5-13-9.2                      34.70
5-14-1.5 et seq.              30.04
                              30.02,
5-14-1.5                      30.03,
                              31.03,
                              152.255
5-14-1.5-5                    30.02
5-14-3                        30.27,
                              33.09
5-14-3-8                      33.03
5-22                          33.06
5-22 et seq.                  34.25,
                              34.32
5-22-2-24                     34.26
5-22-7 et seq.                34.28
5-22-10                       34.30
5-22-10-1 et seq.             34.28
6-1.1-18-4                    34.25
6-1.1-20                      32.33
6-1.1-41                      32.30
6-3.5-6-31(a)                 34.02
6-8-5-1                       32.33
Title 7                       152.135
7.1-3                         152.132
7.1-3-9-3                     110.01
8-1.5-5                       51.01
8-1.5-5-5                     51.01
8-1.5-5-6                     51.01
8-1.5-5-9                     51.02
8-1.55                        51.01
8-16-3-3                      34.09
9-13-2                        70.01
9-13-2-69.7                   72.15
9-13-2-73                     72.15
9-13-2-94.5                   72.15
9-21-4-2                      71.05
9-21-9-1                      72.23
9-21-11-1 et seq.             96.31
10-14-3-12                    30.04
12-7-2                        152.331
12-7-2-28-4                   152.331
12-17.2-4, et seq.            152.331
12-28-4                       152.331
Title 13                      152.135
14-8-2-185                    72.15
14-16-1-4                     72.15
14-28-1                       150.44
14-28-1-26                    150.44
14-28-4                       150.01
16-31-5                       34.12
18-3-1-16(b)                  30.49
22-3-2-2.1                    31.10
22-3-2-5                      34.31
22-3-2-14(b)                  34.31
22-3-5-1                      34.31
22-3-5-2                      34.31
22-9-1-4 et seq.              97.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.              97.01
22-9.5-2-2                    97.02
22-9.5-2-3                    97.02
22-9.5-2-4                    97.02
22-9.5-2-6                    97.02
22-9.5-2-8                    97.02
22-9.5-2-9                    97.02
22-9.5-2-11                   97.02
22-9.5-2-13                   97.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.              97.10
22-9.5-3                      97.03
22-9.5-4-8                    97.11
22-9.5-5                      97.02
22-9.5-6                      97.02,
                              97.11
25-34.1                       32.31
26-2-7-6                      34.34
31-27-3                       152.331
32-1-6 et seq.                151.005
32-1-6 (1-31)                 152.331
35-43-1-2                     152.212
35-44.1-1-4                   33.06
36-1-3-2                      31.09
36-1-3-8                      31.09
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               10.99
36-1-4-14                     31.03
36-1-6 et seq.                71.04
36-1-12                       33.06
36-1-12-4.9                   34.26
36-1-15                       32.33
36-1-20.2                     33.06
36-1-21                       33.06
36-4-7-3                      32.19
36-4-7-5                      32.20
36-4-7-6                      32.20
36-4-8-3                      34.07
36-5-1-10.1                   30.46
36-5-2-2                      30.45
36-5-2-3                      30.46
36-5-2-4.2                    30.46
36-5-2-7                      30.45
36-5-2-9.4 through 36-5-2-9.8 33.07
36-5-2-13                     31.03
36-5-4-2                      34.25
36-5-4-3                      34.25
36-5-4-12                     33.01,
                              34.08
36-5-5-1 et seq.              31.01
36-5-5-7                      34.26
36-5-6-2                      34.25
36-7-1-2                      152.331
36-7-2-2                      32.01
36-7-4 et seq.                151.003,
                              152.003
36-7-4                        150.01
36-7-4(d)                     152.331
36-7-4-500                    152.331
36-7-4-602                    152.011
36-7-4-602(b)                 152.011
36-7-4-602(c)                 152.011
36-7-4-607                    152.011
36-7-4-608                    152.011
36-7-4-613                    152.188
36-7-4-700 et seq.            152.331
36-7-4-902                    152.250
36-7-4-906(f)              152.251
36-7-4-909                    152.258
36-7-4-916                    152.254
36-7-4-918.3                  152.331
36-7-4-918.5                  111.04
36-7-4-921                    152.260
36-7-4-1000                   152.259
36-7-4-1003                   150.61
36-7-4-1016                   152.188
36-7-4-1106                   152.331
36-7-4-1208                   32.33
36-7-4-1400 et. seq.          152.185
36-7-4-1403(d)                152.187,
                              152.189
36-7-8-3                      32.03,
                              152.141
36-7-8-7                      32.03,
                              152.141
36-7-10.1-1 et seq.           92.15
36-8-2-4                      92.02
36-8-2-13                     92.02
36-8-14                       34.12
36-9-15.5                     34.13
36-9-23                       50.07,
                              51.03
36-9-27-2                     92.50
36-9-30-21                    50.07
36-10-3-3                     32.33
36-10-3-4(b)                  32.15
36-10-3-4(e)                  32.15
36-10-3-4.1                   32.15
36-10-3-5(a)(1) - (a)(4)      32.16
36-10-3-5(c)                  32.16
36-10-3-5(d)                  32.16
36-10-3-5(e)                  32.16
36-10-3-5(f)                  32.16
36-10-3-6                     32.17
36-10-3-8                     32.18
36-10-3-9(b) - (d)            32.19
36-10-3-10                    32.20
36-10-3-11                    32.21
36-10-3-12                    32.22
36-10-3-13                    32.23,
                              32.25
36-10-3-14                    32.23
36-10-3-15                    32.24
36-10-3-16                    31.08,
                              32.26
36-10-3-17                    32.27
36-10-3-18                    32.28
36-10-3-19                    32.29
36-10-3-20                    32.30
36-10-3-21                    32.30
36-10-3-22                    32.31
36-10-3-23                    32.31
36-10-3-24                    32.33
36-10-3-25                    32.33
36-10-3-26                    32.33
36-10-3-27                    32.33
36-10-3-28                    32.33
                              
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
30.03              30.03
30.15              30.15
30.16              30.16
30.17              30.17
30.18              30.18
30.19              30.19
30.20              30.20
30.21              30.21
30.22              30.22
30.23              30.23
30.24              30.24
30.26              30.25
30.27              30.26
30.28              30.27
30.29              30.28
30.50              30.45
30.51              30.46
30.52              30.47
30.53              30.48
30.54              30.49
30.55              30.50
30.56              30.51
30.57              30.52
30.58              30.53
30.59              30.54
30.60              30.55
30.61              30.56
30.62              30.57
30.63              30.58
30.64              30.59
30.65              30.60
30.66              30.61
30.67              30.62
30.68              30.63
30.69              30.64
30.70              30.65
30.71              30.66
30.72              30.67
30.73              30.68
31.01              31.01
31.02              31.02
31.03              31.04
31.04              31.07
31.05              31.08
31.06              31.09
32.01              32.01
32.03              32.02
32.04              32.03
33.02              33.02
70.01              71.01
70.02              71.02
70.03              71.03
70.04              71.04
71.01              72.01
71.02              72.01
Ch. 72, Schd. I    Ch. 73, Schd. I
Ch. 72, Schd. II   Ch. 73, Schd. II
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.04              90.04
90.05              90.05
90.06              90.06
90.07              90.07
90.08              90.08
90.09              90.09
90.10              90.10
90.11              90.11
90.12              90.12
91.01              91.01
91.02              91.02
91.03              91.03
92.02              92.01
92.03              92.02
93.01              93.01
93.02              93.02
93.03              93.03
93.04              93.04
93.05              93.05
93.06              93.06
94.01              94.01
95.01              95.01
95.02              95.02
95.03              95.03
96.01              96.01
96.02              96.02
96.03              96.03
96.04              96.04
96.05              96.05
96.06              96.06
96.07              96.07
96.08              96.08
96.09              96.09
96.10              96.10
96.11              96.11
96.12              96.12
96.13              96.13
96.14              96.14
                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ref. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ref. No. Date Passed Code Section
2012-01R 1-3-2012    31.05
2012-02R 1-3-2012    TSO Table III
2012-04R 1-17-2012   33.04
2012-05R 2-28-2012   34.32
2012-08R 3-27-2012   TSO Table II
2012-11R 5-8-2012    31.13
2012-12R 6-12-2012   34.06
2012-14R 6-12-2012   33.06
2012-15R 9-11-2012   TSO Table IV
2013-11R 11-12-2013  31.12
2014-04R 3-25-2014   TSO Table IV
2014-05R 4-8-2014    TSO Table III
2019-11  4-16-2019   31.12
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
7.1-0     6-6-1996    TSO Table II
5.0-2-1   11-5-1996   TSO Table I
5.0-2-2   11-5-1996   TSO Table I
3.4-2     4-7-1997    Ch. 73, Schd. I
7.1-1     2-3-1998    TSO Table II
7.1-2     6-10-1998   TSO Table II
7.1-3     6-10-1998   TSO Table II
3.4-3     9-1-1998    TSO Table II
2.3-2     1-5-1999    32.01
3.4-4     7-6-1999    TSO Table II
00-005    8-15-2000   71.01 –
                      71.04
00-006    8-15-2000   91.01 –
                      91.03
2000-11-1 12-5-2000   TSO Table I
2000-12-1 12-5-2000   30.01
2001-02   7-3-2001    TSO Table I
2002-02   7-22-2002   34.12
2002-06   12-5-2002   31.06
                      92.50 –
2003-01   1-7-2003    92.54,
                      92.99
2003-04   5-20-2003   TSO Table II
2003-07   12-16-2003  TSO Table I
2004-01   1-6-2004    34.11
2004-04   5-4-2004    Ch. 73, Schd. II
2004-05   6-1-2004    34.10
2004-06   8-3-2004    51.01
2004-07   10-5-2004   Ch. 73, Schd. I
                      96.25 –
2005-03   10-18-2005  96.33,
                      96.99
2005-04   12-20-2005  51.02
2006-01   2-21-2006   31.03
2006-04   5-16-2006   Ch. 73, Schd. II
2006-05   5-16-2006   Ch. 73, Schd. II
2006-06   5-16-2006   Ch. 73, Schd. II
2006-08   7-18-2006   31.01
2006-09   9-5-2006    Ch. 73, Schd. II
2006-10   9-5-2006    Ch. 74, Schd. I
2006-11   9-5-2006    33.03
2007-02   2-6-2007    Ch. 73, Schd. I
2007-03   4-10-2007   TSO Table I
2007-05   11-20-2007  Ch. 73, Schd. I
2007-06   11-20-2007  51.02
2007-08   12-4-2007   TSO Table III
2008-02   6-3-2008    71.05,
                      71.99
2008-03   7-15-2008   34.09
2008-05   8-5-2008    TSO Table I
2008-06   9-16-2008   Ch. 73, Schd. I
                      70.01 –
2008-07   9-16-2008   70.04,
                      70.99,
                      Ch. 74, Schd. I
2009-01   3-17-2009   92.02,
                      92.99
2009-02   3-17-2009   34.08
                      150.01 –
                      150.13,
                      150.25-
                      150.27,
2009-05   6-16-2009   150.40-
                      150.46,
                      150.60-
                      150.66,
                      150.99
2009-06   8-18-2009   33.05
                      70.15 –
2010-04   8-17-2010   70.21,
                      70.99,
                      Ch. 73, Schd. I
2010-06   1-18-2011   51.02
2011-04   12-6-2011   31.01
2012-1    2-14-2012   51.03,
                      51.99
2012-3    2-14-2012   34.07
2012-4    2-23-2012   Ch. 73, Schd. III
2012-5    2-28-2012   31.10
2012-6    3-13-2012   34.50 –
                      34.57
2012-7    3-13-2012   33.01
2012-8    4-10-2012   110.01
2012-09   6-12-2012   34.34
2012-11   11-27-2012  34.35
2013-4    7-9-2013    34.05
2014-3    9-23-2014   31.01
                      92.35 –
2015-4    12-8-2015   92.38,
                      92.99
                      72.15 –
2016-01   2-11-2016   72.23,
                      72.99
2016-04   5-26-2016   34.04
2016-05   6-23-2016   34.33
2016-06   7-28-2016   34.01
2016-07   8-25-2016   34.02
2016-08   8-25-2016   34.03
2017-01   2-9-2017    50.01 –
                      50.07
2017-02   2-23-2017   51.02
2017-03   3-23-2017   92.15 –
                      92.22
2017-04   7-8-2017    Ch. 73, Schd. I
2017-05   8-22-2017   Ch. 73, Schd. III
2017-07   10-26-2017  TSO Table I
2017-11   12-14-2017  32.15 –
                      32.33
2017-12   12-14-2017  34.25 –
                      34.31
2017-13   12-14-2017  71.06,
                      71.99
2018-01   4-12-2018   34.13
2018-02   8-9-2018    TSO Table I
2019-02   1-15-2019   TSO Table II
2019-03   – -2019   Ch. 74, Schd. I
2019-04   4-16-2019   33.07
2019-06   6-4-2019    97.01 -
                      97.11
2019-09   9-19-2019   33.08
2020-01   2-4-2020    95.04
2020-02   6-2-2020    111.01 -
                      111.06
2020-03   7-7-2020    33.09
2020-04   6-16-2020   Ch. 73, Sch. II
2020-05   9-15-2020   Ch. 73, Schd. I
2020-07   10-6-2020   Ch. 73, Schd. III
2021-01   1-19-2021   51.02
2021-02   5-4-2021    34.14
                      152.028,
                      152.044,
                      152.060,
                      152.061,
                      152.129,
                      152.131,
                      152.136,
                      152.137,
                      152.139,
                      152.143,
2021-08   10-19-2021  152.207,
                      152.211 -
                      152.213,
                      152.260,
                      152.275,
                      152.276,
                      152.279,
                      152.290 -
                      152.292,
                      152.294,
                      152.331
2021-09   - -2021     31.10
                      151.001 -
                      151.012,
                      151.025,
                      151.040 -
                      151.047,
                      151.060 -
-         - -         151.063,
                      151.075 -
                      151.081,
                      151.095 -
                      151.106,
                      151.120,
                      151.121
                      152.001 -
                      152.012,
                      152.025 -
                      152.028,
                      152.040 -
                      152.045,
                      152.060 -
                      152.064,
                      152.075,
                      152.090 -
                      152.094,
                      152.105 -
                      152.111,
                      152.125 -
                      152.144,
                      152.155 -
                      152.172,
                      152.185 -
-         - -         152.190,
                      152.205 -
                      152.217,
                      152.230 -
                      152.235,
                      152.250 -
                      152.262,
                      152.275 -
                      152.279,
                      152.290 -
                      152.295,
                      152.310 -
                      152.317,
                      152.330,
                      152.331,
                      152.999,
                      Appendices A,
                      B, and
                      C
2022-02   3-15-2022   10.17
2022-6    4-19-2022   TSO Table II
2022-07   5-3-2022    TSO Table I
2022-08   5-3-2022    30.04
2022-10   5-17-2022   34.14
2022-11   9-6-2022    10.17,
                      96.15
2022-16   11-1-2022   34.36
2022-17   11-1-2022   33.01
2022-18   12-20-2022  95.05
2023-01   3-7-2023    30.01
2023-03   4-18-2023   TSO Table I
2023-04   6-6-2023    34.15
2023-05   8-2-2023    TSO Table I
2023-06   8-5-2023    TSO Table III
2023-08   11-7-2023   TSO Table II
2023-10   12-5-2023   Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                       II
2023-11   12-5-2023   34.65 -
                      34.73
2024-01   2-6-2024    10.17
                     
 
 
