TOWN OF LIBERTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2024 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588   www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE   
ORDINANCE 2003-3
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF LIBERTY, INDIANA
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general -welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and .codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF TOWN OF LIBERTY:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Liberty.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         Title I:      General Provisions
         Title III:   Administration
         Title V:      Public Works
         Title VII:   Traffic Code
         Title IX:   General Regulations
         Title XI:   Business Regulations
         Title XIII:   General Offenses
         Title XV:   Land Usage
         Table of Special Ordinances
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting casements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
the 8th day of September, 2003.
ATTEST:  Cheryl Begley /s/                 Tony Gulley /s/
                                           Allan Dowder /s/
                                           Rodney West /s/  
                                           Chris Rosenberger /s/
                                                                                                   
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Code of
Liberty, Indiana,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified
Ordinances” or “Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. The County of Union.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON or WHOEVER. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm,
corporation, co- partnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Liberty, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   For similar definitions under state law, see I.C. 1-1-4-5
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to the indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed
1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Boundaries
   
11.02   Official flag
§ 11.01 BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The following described contiguous territory to the Town of Liberty,
Indiana, both platted and unplatted, be and the same is hereby defined and
annexed and declared to be the entire corporate boundaries of the Town of
Liberty, Indiana.
   Beginning at the section stone marking the northwest corner of the northeast
one quarter of section 12, township 11, range two west, and being approximately
100.00 feet north of the Liberty and Brownsville Road; thence south along the
west line of the quarter section to the southwest corner of the quarter
section; thence east along the south line of the quarter section, being the
south line of lots six and seven Ayer’s Addition to a point opposite the
prolongation of the west line of West Street; thence south parallel with the
quarter section line 938.00 feet to a point 142.00 feet more or less south of
the roadway running north of Witt’s property; thence east parallel with the
above mentioned roadway to the center of Main Street; thence continuing
eastwardly along the south property line of Clark’s Factory Lot to the center
line of the B and O Railroad; thence southeastwardly along the center of the
railroad to a point opposite the west line of Fairground Street prolonged;
thence north along the prolongation of the Fairground Street to a point 386.76
feet south of the south line of South Street; thence eastwardly along the
prolongation of and the south line of the lots facing South Street east of Line
Street to a point opposite the prolongation of the east line of lots 13, 20 and
51 in the First Industrial Addition to Liberty; thence north along the above
mentioned prolonged line to the center of College Corner Avenue also known as
Indiana State Road #27; thence southeastwardly and along the center of the
College Corner Avenue to the east line of an alley, parallel, adjacent to and
abutting upon the east line of the First Industrial Addition to the Town of
Liberty, Indiana; thence north to the south line of Wil-Mar Place as laid out
by Miles-Richmond, Inc.; thence east along the south line of the Wil-Mar Place
a distance of 321 feet; thence south 35 feet; thence east 175.77 feet, more or
less; thence north to the north line of Vine Street; thence west on and along
the north line of Camden Road also known as Vine Street to a point 778.50 feet
east of the west line of Layman Street; thence north parallel with and 478.50
feet east of the west line of Layman Street to the south line of Union Street
prolonged; thence east along the south line of Union Street prolonged 587.0
feet to the east line of the County Park Property thence north along the east
line of the Park Property 592.70 feet to the northeast corner of the Park;
thence west along the
north line of the Park Property and the prolongation thereof to a point
opposite the east line of Layman Street; thence north along the east line of
Layman Street and the prolongation thereof to the north line of section seven
thence west along the section line to the east line of lot 18 Hurty’s Addition;
thence north along the east line of lot 18 and the east line of the Town Water
Company Land to the north line of the Water Company Land, the north line being
a distance of 1789.00 feet more or less from the north line of Sycamore Street;
thence west along the north line of the Water Works Land to the east line of
the Richmond Pike, Federal Road # 27; thence southwestwardly along the east
line of the road as it was relocated to the northwest corner of lot four
Agricultural, Horticultural and Mechanical Arts Addition at the intersection of
Market Street and Richmond Pike; thence west along the north line of quarter
section 12 to the place of beginning.
   (B)   Which the above described territory shall be hereafter known as, the
Town of Liberty, Indiana, and be within the boundaries of the same town.
(Ord. 20, passed 12-5-1962)
§ 11.02 OFFICIAL FLAG.
   (A)   The County Development Corporation has held a contest for the design
of a flag suitable to become the official flag of the town.
   (B)   A flag and banner have been constructed from royal blue and gold
fabric with a statue of the town’s Lady Liberty.
   (C)   The County Development Corporation wished the above described flag as
the official flag of the town for display at the Town Council meeting place.
   (D)   The Town Council adopted this flag as the official flag of Liberty.
(Ord. 1989-6, passed 8-28-1989)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
31.   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 30: TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Town Council
   
30.01   Method of election
   
30.02   Designation as Purchasing Agency
Town Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.15   Office as Violations Bureau
   
30.16   Use of depositories
Town Marshals
   
30.25   Voluntary Reserve Marshal Unit
Conflicts of Interest; Nepotism
   
30.45   Nepotism and contracting with a unit by a relative policies
TOWN COUNCIL
§ 30.01 METHOD OF ELECTION.
   (A)   The town has been acting under I.C. 36-5-2-4.1 with voting districts,
or wards, for the purpose of electing Town Council members.
   (B)   It has now been determined that the registered voters are unevenly
divided in the wards.
   (C)   It has been ordained by the Town Council in order to provide better
representation to the residents of the town, to rescind this ruling and to
allow Town Council members to be elected at large, as per I.C. 36-5-2-5.
(Ord. 1996-4, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 30.02 DESIGNATION AS PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Council is hereby designated as the Purchasing Agency
of the town with all of the powers and duties authorized under I.C. 5-22.
      (2)   The Town Council shall designate in writing a person or persons to
become the Town’s Purchasing Agent.
   (B)   The Purchasing Agency shall be authorized to purchase supplies with an
estimated cost of less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or
receiving quotes or bids.
   (C)   The Purchasing Agency may purchase services not including supplies in
whatever manner the purchaser determines to be reasonable.
   (D)   The Purchasing Agency and the Purchasing Agent shall specify in
purchasing supplies that supplies purchased shall be manufactured in the United
States unless:
      (1)   The supplies to be purchased are not manufactured in the United
States.
      (2)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceed
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere.
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere.
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
      (5)   The Purchasing Agency and the Purchasing Agent shall in all
respects comply with I.C. 5-22.
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 8-3-1998)
TOWN CLERK-TREASURER
§ 30.15 OFFICE AS VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   The Town’s Office of the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby established as the
Violations Bureau for any violations of the town’s ordinances.
   (B)   The Office of the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to accept fines
for the violations for all ordinances except for those pertaining to moving
traffic violations.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to accept $25 as the full and
complete fine for any violations notwithstanding the fine mentioned in the
section.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the enforcement
of any ordinances by I.C. 34-28-5.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 11-21-1988)
§ 30.16 USE OF DEPOSITORIES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall use depositories limited to those designated by
the State Board of Finance.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 4-6-1998)
TOWN MARSHALS
§ 30.25 VOLUNTARY RESERVE MARSHAL UNIT.
   (A)   The following provisions of this section, pertaining to the formation
of a Voluntary Reserve Marshal Unit, have been established pursuant to I.C. 36-
8-3-20.
   (B)   Details are as follows:
      (1)   Reserve marshals are volunteers and expect no compensation for
performing their duties as reserve marshals for the town.
      (2)   Reserve candidates must complete a job application to the marshal
with references and agree to a background check.
      (3)   Reserve candidates will be given an oral interview by the Town
Council.
      (4)   (a)   Reserve candidates shall not be discriminated against by the
Appointing Body of the town based on race, age, sex or physical disability.
         (b)   Appointments shall be made based on the individual’s ability to
perform the duties required of a reserve marshal for the town.
      (5)   Reserve candidates shall be appointed by the same authority that
appoints regular members of the Department.
      (6)   Reserve candidates must have a high school diploma or G.E.D.
equivalent and must be 21 years of age.
      (7)   Reserves are not guaranteed any full-time compensated position
which may arise during their appointment as volunteers.
      (8)   Reserve marshals shall have the same police powers a regular
members of the Department except as limited by the rules of the Department.
Reserve Marshal S.O.P. (Standard Operating Procedure) sets these guidelines.
      (9)   (a)   Reserve marshals are representatives of the town and its
Police Department.
         (b)   Reserves are required to follow all departmental policies and
regulations as they pertain to job specifications, duties, limitations and code
of conduct on and off duty.
         (c)   Reserves are subject to dismissal by the marshal if these
policies are not adhered to.
      (10)   (a)   Reserve marshals shall be issued the uniform of the
Department by the marshal.
         (b)   Guidelines for same are listed in the Reserve S.O.P. (Standard
Operating Procedure).
      (11)   Reserve marshals are not considered to be members of the regular
Department, but have all the same police powers as regular officers.
      (12)   (a)   Reserve marshals shall receive medical insurance which
covers any injury that may occur during the performance of their duties as
police officers.
         (b)   Reserves must be gainfully employed and have regular health
insurance however in order to qualify for this coverage.
         (c)   This policy is similar to worker’s compensation details and is
made available by the marshal.
         (d)   This coverage is offered at no cost to the individual.
      (13)   A reserve marshal shall not be appointed until he or she has
completed the training and probationary period specified by rules of the
Department.
      (14)   (a)   Reserve officers who have not already met Indiana Law
Enforcement Training Board training requirements are mandated to attend the 40
hour pre-basic training course at the Indiana Law Enforcement Training Board
within one year of their appointment as reserve marshals.
         (b)   This is in addition to the training requirements of the
Department.
      (15)   All other details regarding the Reserve Marshal Unit for the town,
requirements, training and the like, can be found in Liberty Police Department
S.O.P. (Standard Operating Procedure) “Reserve Marshals” as well as the
departmental S.O.P.’s governing policy for police officers of the Department.
(Ord. 93-5, passed 7-20-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3-20
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST; NEPOTISM
§ 30.45 NEPOTISM AND CONTRACTING WITH A UNIT BY A RELATIVE POLICIES.
   (A)   Finding. The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a
policy of conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and
in contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012 known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   In general. On July 1, 2012 the town shall have a nepotism and a
contracting with a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of
I.C. 36-1-20.2 (hereinafter “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter
“contracting with a unit by a relative policy”) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   Nepotism policy. The town nepotism policy is hereby established
effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C.
36-1-20.2 and including all future supplements and amendments thereto which
become law from time to time, and making them a part hereafter as if fully set
out herein. In addition a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2 (Nepotism) in effect on July 1
is attached to Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-18-2012.
   (D)   Contracting with a unit by a relative policy. The town contracting
with a unit by a relative policy is hereby established effective July 1, 2012
by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-21 and; including
all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to
time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In addition a
copy of the I.C. 36-1-21 (Contracting with a Unit by a Relative) in effect on
July 1 is attached to Ordinance No. 2012-5, passed 6-18-2012.
   (E)   More stringent requirements permissible. The town finds that both I.C.
36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically allow a unit to adopt requirements that
are “more stringent or detailed” and that more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   Authority to act.
      (1)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority he or she will
not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11, I.C. 36-5-2-9.4.
      (2)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with
authority over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make
work assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance
evaluation without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute
provides that a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such
authority by the majority he or she will not be in the direct line of
supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-12, I.C. 36-5-2-9.4.
   (G)   Cooperation. All elected and appointed official and employees of the
town are hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
policies created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same
policies.
   (H)   Noncompliance.
      (1)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation,
compliance and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation
and may result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a
transfer from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An
elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
      (2)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation,
compliance and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a
relative policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including
termination, of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed
official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
contracting with unit by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed by
law.
   (I)   Implementation.
      (1)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting a copy of Ordinance No. 2012-5 in its entirety in at
least one of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other
notices to its employees;
         (b)   Providing a copy of Ordinance No. 2012-5 to its employees and
elected and appointed officials;
         (c)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of Ordinance No.
201205; or
         (d)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
polices established by Ordinance No. 2012-5 to its employees and elected and
appointed officials.
      (2)   Upon any of taking these actions these policies are deemed
implemented by the Town of Liberty.
   (J)   State legislation. Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and
as supplemented or amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
for the town for public inspection as maybe required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2012-5, passed 6-18-2012)
CHAPTER 31: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
31.01   Claims paid prior to Town Council allowance
   
31.02   Copies of accident reports
   
31.03   Credit card use
   
31.04   Capital asset policy
   
31.05   Infrastructure asset policy
   
31.06   Returned check policy
§ 31.01 CLAIMS PAID PRIOR TO TOWN COUNCIL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Town Council adopts the following list of types of claims which
may be paid prior to Town Council allowance.
      (1)   Property or services purchased from the U.S. Government;
      (2)   License of permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or connection charges;
      (5)   Grant funds (state grant funds);
      (6)   General grant programs where advanced refunding is not prohibited
and the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount
advanced;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal and county taxes;
      (12)   Other payroll deductions;
      (13)   Investments;
      (14)   Loan payments;
      (15)   Filing and releasing fees;
      (16)   Vehicle registration fees; and
      (17)   State utility payments to the town utilities.
   (B)   The payments shall be supported by a claim and be reviewed and allowed
at the next regular meeting following preapproval payment of the expense.
(Ord. 1992-4, passed 12-21-1992; Am Ord. 2018-5, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 31.02 COPIES OF ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The Town Police Department shall charge and collect a photocopy fee of
$5 for each accident report photocopied for any person requesting the same.
   (B)   The fee shall be remitted to the Clerk-Treasurer for approved receipt
and shall be deposited into the fund known as the Accident Report Fund.
   (C)   The monies may be expended by the Chief Police Officer on the approval
of the Town Board for expenses reasonably related to the keeping of accident
reports or records or the prevention of street and highway accidents.
(Ord. 1987-6, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 31.03 CREDIT CARD USE.
   (A)   The need to use credit cards has arisen, and the Liberty Town Council
wishes to establish a policy for such use.
   (B)   For fuel purchases at Energy Plus, it is to be a two-card system. One
card assigned for each vehicle, and one card assigned to each employee. The
employee is responsible for charges made on his or her card, so employees
should not exchange cards. Employees are to report any problems (such as lost
cards), to the Clerk-Treasurer immediately. Upon termination of employment card
must be returned to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   For purchases on Lowe’s cards or any other cards the department head
must get prior approval of items to be purchased. Pick up credit card the day
the purchase is to be made from the Clerk-Treasurer, and return it the same
day. Department head is responsible for purchases made while card is in their
care.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of each employee to see that all tickets
related to the charges are turned into the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. If all
documents related to the charge are not turned in then the employee making the
charges is responsible for that charge until such documents are turned in.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 2-20-2006)
§ 31.04 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   General information. 
      (1)   The town will be implementing a new capital asset policy that will
become effective May 20, 2019, and will be known as the “Capital Asset Policy”.
         (a)   This policy is to include capital assets as well as
infrastructure assets, which are to be accounted for at the network or
subsystem level.
         (b)   The policy is being put in effect to comply with the provisions
of GASB 34 and the requirements of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
         (c)   All infrastructures acquired after GASB 34 implementation will
be reported on a prospective basis.
         (d)   Assets that do not meet the specified threshold will be expensed
in the year of purchase.
         (e)   An inventory of capital assets will be maintained by the town at
all times and verified on an annual basis through confirmations by each
department head.
         (f)   Capital asset thresholds will be configured to account for 80-
90% of the total cost of all town assets.
      (2)   The town is making this policy effective to enhance financial and
operational accountability to the citizens of the town and to all other
concerned constituents.
      (3)   The purpose of establishing a capital asset policy is to:
         (a)   Comply with the standards of GASB 34;
         (b)   Maintain accurate records of all capital assets that are
capitalized, including infrastructure;
         (c)   Increase accuracy and transparency of financial reporting;
         (d)   To better serve the citizens of town and the town’s
constituents.
      (4)   This policy will only serve to classify all capital assets,
including capital and infrastructure, for accuracy in financial reporting
through the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   Definition of capital assets.
      (1)   CAPITAL ASSETS include: land, land improvements, buildings,
building improvements, machinery and equipment, vehicles, construction work in
progress, easements, works of art and historical treasures, and infrastructure.
These assets are to have a cost of greater than a specified threshold, and a
useful life of greater than one year. The cost of the asset will include all
expenses necessary to make the asset fully operational. Assets acquired through
lease purchase agreements that meet these specifications are to be capitalized.
This cost will be determined as the present value or discounted value of the
future stream of lease payments, and not the total lease. Items that do not
meet this definition of capital assets are to be expensed in the year the asset
is used. A separate database or inventory is to be established for assets with
a unit or network cost not above the thresholds. All capital assets are to be
reported at cost.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Office equipment, which is custom fit to the needs of a
particular office, will be capitalized as a portion of the cost of the building
or area in which it is located. All other office supplies and equipment will be
capitalized if they meet the specified requirements for capitalization.
         (b)   Inexhaustible assets, such as land, improvements, artwork,
statues, and the like, will be reported at cost.
         (c)   Separate thresholds will be established for tracking and
capitalization purposes.
         (d)   Certain items that do not individually meet the assigned
threshold may be aggregated for capitalization purposes.
         (e)   Properties and improvements reverted to the town through
Commissioner Tax Sales are excluded.
         (f)   Properties and improvements reverted to the town through flood
mitigation are also excluded.
   (C)   Classification of capital assets. Capital assets are to include any
item that falls into one of the following categories: land, land improvements,
buildings, building improvements, machinery and equipment, construction work in
progress, vehicles, easements, works of art and historical treasures. These
categories of capital assets are to be defined as follows.
      (1)   Land. LAND consists of all lots, parcels, rights-of-way, easements,
parks, police and fire stations, and acreages owned by the town government.
This includes all bodies of water and natural vegetation growing on these
properties. Gains or losses on the sale of land are to be reported as a special
item in the statement of activities.
      (2)   Land improvements. LAND IMPROVEMENTS include such items as
retaining walls, driveways, landscaping, parking areas, sprinkler systems,
fencing, and other items that add value to ormay be considered an improvement
in making the land ready for its intended use. Land improvements are to be
classified into two categories:
         (a)   Non-exhaustible - includes items that do not require maintenance
or repair and, therefore, are not to be depreciated;
         (b)   Exhaustible - includes items that do require maintenance or
repair and, therefore, are depreciated.
      (3)   Buildings. BUILDINGS include all structures erected by the town for
the purpose of conducting business, providing service, or facilitating work to
the citizens of the town. This includes all fixtures and systems within the
building, as well as specifically designed equipment. This may also include all
porches, balconies, canopies, flagpoles, stairwells, fire escapes, patios,
decks, and any other attachments that add to the value of the building. Certain
building components should be recorded and capitalized separately as they have
a distinguishably different useful life.
      (4)   Building improvements. BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS are those items that
extend the useful life of the building, and are to be capitalized, including
remodeling, roofing projects, energy conservation projects, and the like. These
items are to be inventoried, including project description, year completed,
funding source, and dollar amount.
      (5)   Machinery and equipment. MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT include furniture
and machinery and equipment. This may include items such as office equipment,
furnishings, appliances, earth moving equipment, construction equipment,
communication equipment, maintenance equipment, supplies, and the like. Items
that do not individually meet the established threshold may be aggregated for
capitalization purposes. This may include computers, library books, and the
like.
      (6)   Construction work in progress. CONSTRUCTION WORK IN PROGRESS
includes all partially completed portions of construction projects that are not
completed. This includes all current cost
of the project, including such items as assessment fees, architect fees,
licensing, supplies, labor, and the like.
      (7)   Vehicles. Vehicles should be inventoried and depreciated when
applicable. Gains or losses on the sale of vehicles will be reported as a
special item in the statement of activities.
      (8)    Easements. An EASEMENT is a specific land interest held by an
owner that entitles them to a specific use or right to the land. Since
easements are rights to use, they will not be reported in the financial
statements unless they are owned by the town.
      (9)   Works of art and historical treasures. These items are to be
recorded at historical cost.
   (D)   Valuation of capital assets. 
      (1)   All capital assets will be valued at the unit or system level. If
these costs exceed a specified threshold, they will be capitalized. Separate
thresholds will be established for tracking purposes. Any expense pertaining to
the cost of making the asset operational may be included in this cost. This may
include the following:
         (a)   Legal and title fees, closing costs;
         (b)   Appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying fees;
         (c)   Damage payments;
         (d)   Land preparation costs, demolition costs;
         (e)   Architect, engineering and accounting fees;
         (f)   Insurance premiums during construction;
         (g)   Transportation charges.
      (2)   Capital assets are to be recorded at actual cost, which includes
all expenses to make the asset fully operational. If no cost is available,
replacement cost or a historic cost index may be used. It will not be
sufficient to use appraisal cost to determine the cost of the capital assets,
as this is a violation of the matching principle.
      (3)   Capital assets will be capitalized when they exceed the following
thresholds of each specific category. The threshold the asset must meet will be
contingent on which category the asset falls in. The thresholds are as follows:
Category Tracking and Inventory Capitalize
Category                 Tracking and Inventory Capitalize
Land                           $1         $1
Land improvements              $500       $5,000
Building                       $500       $5,000
Building improvements          $500       $5,000
Machinery and equipment        $500       $5,000
Construction in progress       $500       $5,000
Vehicle                        $500       $5,000
Works of art                   $500       $5,000
Historic treasures             $500       $5,000
 
      (4)   Other factors that will be considered in capitalizing assets will
be the estimated useful life, asset cost, and associated debt.
      (5)   Exception for capitalization may also be made for items that must
be tracked and inventoried regardless of the costs. Also, individual items may
be aggregated for reporting and capitalization purposes.
   (E)   Physical inventory and reconciliation policy. All capital assets will
be inventoried no less than every year. A physical inventory will be the
responsibility of each department head to account for all capital assets at
year-end, as well as inventory items that are simply tracked and inventoried.
The physical inventory will include the following items: asset description,
year of acquisition, method of acquisition, funding source, cost or estimated
cost, salvage value, and estimated useful life. This information will be
aggregated and maintained in a database managed by the town.
   (F)   Capital asset acquisition.
      (1)   The means of capital asset acquisition may determine how the asset
is to be accounted for. In general, there are eight major methods of acquiring
or making capital purchases:
         (a)   Proceeds of debt issues;
         (b)   Tax revenues transferred in;
         (c)   Special assessments;
         (d)   Interest on investments;
         (e)   Interfund transfers;
         (f)   Tax revenues;
         (g)   Gifts, grants, entitlements;
         (h)   Capital leases.
      (2)   The various means of making capital acquisitions are to be
accounted for at the fund level, and in some instances will be reported at the
government-wide level. Capital leases are to be reported at the discounted cost
of the stream of future lease payments upon inception.
   (G)   Capital asset disposition and transfer.
      (1)   A distinction must be made as to whether the action is a betterment
or a replacement. A BETTERMENT adds to or extends the useful life of the asset.
These costs are to be added to the current carrying cost of the asset and
continue along the depreciation schedule. A REPLACEMENT requires that the asset
be removed from the books and new asset be recorded at cost.
      (2)   Some situations may be considered to be part betterment and part
replacement. This requires determining the distribution of part betterment and
part replacement. Once the distribution is determined, the respective portions
should be handled in the usual manner for a replacement or betterment. In
situations where assets are traded, the asset is to be removed from the books.
If only one part of the asset is being disposed of, that asset must be removed
from the books using a pro-rata share of the cost.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 31.05 INFRASTRUCTURE ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   Definition of subsystems and networks.
      (1)   New infrastructure reporting rules are mandated under GASB 34
implementation. The new standard requires the reporting of all major
infrastructure assets. The reporting of non-major infrastructure assets is
encouraged but not required. The town will classify major infrastructure assets
at the network and subsystem levels.
      (2)   At the subsystem level, the asset will be classified as major if
the cost of the subsystem is at least 5% of the cost of all capital assets
reported in fiscal years beginning after May 20, 2019. A SUBSYSTEM will be
defined as a segment of a network of assets that serve a similar function (such
as paved roads, gravel roads and unimproved roads).
      (3)   At the network level, the asset will be classified as major if the
cost of the network is at least 10% of the cost of all capital assets reported
in fiscal years beginning after May 20, 2019. A NETWORK will be defined as a
group of similar assets that serve a particular function or purpose of the
town.
      (4)   All major infrastructure assets are to be reported on a prospective
basis effective May 20, 2019. This will include the cost of the asset.
      (5)   All infrastructure assets that are to be reported will be
determined at the network and subsystem level, regardless of the method of
reporting.
   (B)   Method of obtaining cost.
      (1)   All infrastructure assets are to be reported at cost. Cost may
include all costs necessary to make the asset fully operational. These costs
may include:
         (a)   Legal and title fees, closing costs;
         (b)   Appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying fees;
         (c)   Damage payments;
         (d)   Land preparation costs, demolition costs;
         (e)   Architect, engineering and accounting fees;
         (f)   Insurance premiums during construction;
         (g)   Transportation charges.
      (2)   All infrastructure exceeding $50,000 will be tracked and
inventoried. The proposed capitalization point will be $250,000, in accordance
with the classification of a major infrastructure asset.
   (C)   Record keeping requirements.
      (1)   It will be the responsibility of all department heads to maintain
accurate records of capital assets within their respective departments. The
Town Clerk-Treasurer will be responsible for recording these values in the
town’s annual report in compliance with standards established by the state.
      (2)   The physical inventory of all capitalized and tracked assets will
serve as a policing tool against theft or destruction of the town’s property.
In situations where assets are missing, a search will be conducted to find the
cause. If an individual or group of individuals is determined to be the cause,
disciplinary measures will be taken.
      (3)   These new reporting requirements are mandated by the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board and are intended to enhance financial and
operational accountability to the citizens of the town and all concerned
constituents.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 31.06 RETURNED CHECK POLICY.
   (A)   In the event a check is returned for insufficient payment, the town
will assess a bad check fee as stated in
Chapter 55 of the town Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   The amount tendered by the insufficient fund check and the related bad
check fee shall be paid to the town in cash within five days of the town
receiving notification from the bank.
   (C)   If an individual has two bad checks returned within a 12 month period,
commencing on the date the first check is returned, the individual will not be
permitted to write checks to the town. The individual will have to satisfy
amounts due by cash, credit/debit card or money order.
   (D)   If the individual’s returned checks impact the balance of a utility
account and the account becomes delinquent, § 52.599 will be enforced.
   (E)   If the individual does not provide reimbursement to the town for the
insufficient check, and pay the related bad check fee, the matter will be
turned over to the Union County Prosecutor.
(Ord. 2021-8, passed 12-6-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   TRASH AND RECYCLABLES
      
51.   RESERVED
      
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
53.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
54.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
55.   UTILITIES FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 50: TRASH AND RECYCLABLES
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Establishment of service
   
50.03   Trash collection services to be provided
   
50.04   Authorized containers
   
50.05   Requirements for trash collection pick up
   
50.06   Limitations on trash eligible for collection
   
50.07   Fees
   
50.08   Delinquency fee
   
50.09   Fund for revenues
   
50.10   Bulky item collection services
   
50.11   Recyclables
   
50.12   Fines and penalties
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECYCLABLES. Newsprint, aluminum beverage cans, bi-metal, and ferrous cans.
Category #1 (polyethyl terephthalate) plastic containers, Category #2 (high
density polyethylene) plastic containers, and glass containers.
   TRASH. Ordinary household waste and garbage, including putrescible and non-
putrescible solid and semi-solid items of waste except for:
      (1)   Human and animal body waste;
      (2)   Liquids;
      (3)   Liquid or water carried wastes which are normally disposed of in
sanitary sewer systems;
      (4)   Hazardous waste;
      (5)   Building materials;
      (6)   Appliances, furniture, household fixtures, and/or any other similar
bulky items; and
      (7)   Lead acid batteries.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 50.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Town Council is the authority for the collection of residential
and small commercial business trash collection service solely for the benefit
of, and shall be used solely by, the residents and the small commercial
businesses, which includes multi-family housing units, located within the
town's corporation limits. The Town Council shall provide the service through
the use of interlocal agreements, contracts, licensing, franchise agreements,
or any method it may deem necessary to ensure that quality service is provided
to the town.
   (B)   Prior to awarding any contracts for trash collection under this
chapter, the Town Council shall assure that competitive bids are obtained.
Contracts shall be re-bid periodically to assure competition for providing
trash collection services. The Town Council may also extend contract agreements
if the Council deems it to be in the best interest of the town. No entity shall
contract for general curbside trash collection service in the town without
prior approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 50.03 TRASH COLLECTION SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED.
   The town, acting through the Town Council, and in cooperation with the trash
collection contractor, shall provide a curbside trash collection service to
residents once a week. The small commercial businesses, who the town provides
services for will be subject to pick twice a week. The weekly and bi-weekly
services will be a designated day/days of the week. This schedule, however is
subject to change necessitated by special circumstances including, but not
limited to holidays, special events, severe weather or equipment breakdown. Any
changes in the above schedule will be announced by the town.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 50.04 AUTHORIZED CONTAINERS.
   (A)   To be eligible for residential trash collection, the resident is
allowed two cans or six 32 gallon bags per pick-up. Cans and bags should not
exceed 50 pounds. All boxes should be broken down and bundled.
      (1)   Customers are permitted to contact the town's trash servicer to
obtain trash cans or dumpsters for construction materials. The transaction will
be considered to be between the customers and the provider.
   (B)   Small commercial businesses and multi-family units will contract their
dumpsters through the town.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 50.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR TRASH COLLECTION PICK UP.
   (A)   Items which are to be picked up pursuant to the trash collection
service, shall be placed adjacent to the curb immediately adjacent to the
individual's residence, within three feet of the curb or traveled portion of
the street prior to 6:00 a.m. on the date scheduled for said collection, but
not earlier than 5:00 p.m. on the date preceding the scheduled collection. If
the setting out of trash before the time allotted is a recurring issue, the
resident can be fined.
   (B)   No person shall place any trash on the property of another. No person
shall search through, alter, deform, or remove any items set out for
collection.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023) Fines and penalties, see §
50.12
§ 50.06 LIMITATIONS ON TRASH ELIGIBLE FOR COLLECTION.
   No person shall dispose of, for collection, any needles, syringes, lancets,
or other sharp objects unless the same are placed in a hard-plastic or metal
container with a screw-on or tightly secured lid. No person shall dispose of,
for collection, any soiled bandages, disposable sheets or medical gloves unless
the same are placed in a securely fastened plastic bag.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 50.07 FEES.
   (A)   Each residential trash customer will be charged monthly 50% of the
trash contractor's cost per unit per month. The sanitation charge will be a
part of the customer's water/wastewater invoice. The charge will be expected to
be due on the 15th of every month. If the 15th falls on a Saturday, Monday will
be the due date. If the 15th falls on a Sunday, Tuesday will be the due date.
Holidays that fall on the 15th, the next business day will be the due date.
   (B)   Each small business and multi-family housing trash customer will be
charged 80% of the trash contractor's cost for each container they use per
month. The sanitation charge will be a part of the customer's water/wastewater
invoice. The charge will be expected to be due on the 15th of every month. If
the 15th falls on a Saturday, Monday will be the due date. If the 15th falls on
a Sunday, Tuesday will be the due date. Holidays that fall on the 15th, the
next business day will be the due date.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 50.08 DELINQUENCY FEE.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-31, if any fees authorized by this chapter are not
paid within the time fixed for payment, they are delinquent. A penalty of 10%
of the amount of the fees attaches to the delinquent fees, as specified above.
The amount of the fee and penalty can be recorded as a lien onto the property.
The fee and penalty plus reasonable attorney's fee may be recovered by the Town
Council in a civil action in the name of the town. The town may also turn the
fee over to a collection agency.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 50.09 FUND FOR REVENUES.
   The revenues generated from the collection fees and service charges from
trash collection as provided for above, shall be deposited in a fund and
account separate from any other fund established and funded by tax monies,
expenditures from which shall be limited to costs associated with the
collection and disposal of said trash.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 50.10 BULKY ITEM COLLECTION SERVICES.
   Bulky items, excluded from the definition of trash, can be picked up on
collection day. The Town Administration building will have to be informed of
the bulky item pick up 72 hours before collection day in order to coordinate
the pick up with the trash contractor. Televisions cannot exceed 32 inches for
curbside pick-up. Any mattress or upholstered furniture must be completely
sealed in disposable plastic for removal. The town will put the customer in
contact with the trash contractor directly if the customer is wanting to
dispose of a refrigerator, air conditioner or other items which normally
contain CFC's (freon).
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 50.11RECYCLABLES.
   The town does not offer curbside recyclable pick up. Recyclable containers
are available at the county landfill.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 50.12 FINES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Residents in violation of section §
55.05 will be fined $25 per occurrence. The fine revenue will be receipted into
the Trash Collection Fund.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 51: RESERVED
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
Administration
   
52.100   Definitions
   
52.101   Operation of water utility
   
52.102   Property of town
   
52.103   Town access to pipes and fixtures
   
52.104   Town liability
   
52.105   Prohibited acts
Meters and Connections
   
52.200   Definitions
   
52.201   Town water meter system
   
52.202   Water meters
   
52.203   Water meter locations
   
52.204   Water meter requirements
   
52.205   Access to meters
   
52.206   Damage to meters and meter reading equipment
   
52.207   Alterations or changes
   
52.208   Rules and regulations for water meters
   
52.209   Other provisions
   
52.210   Connection requirements
   
52.211   Conditions for permission to use within a development
   
52.212   Application for connection
   
52.213   Requirements of prospective users
Cross Connection Control; Contamination Prevention
   
52.300   Definitions
   
52.301   Maintenance of cross connection prohibited
   
52.302   Inspections
   
52.303   Right to entry
   
52.304   Discontinuance of service
   
52.305   Use of toxic or hazardous liquids
   
52.306   Interpretation with Indiana Plumbing Code
Rates and Charges
   
52.400   Definitions
   
52.401   Establishment of rates and charges
   
52.402   Tapping and availability fees
   
52.403   Collection or deferred payment charge
   
52.404   Temporary users
   
52.405   Turn-on fees
   
52.406   User deposit
   
52.407   Multiple billing units
   
52.408   Bad check charge
   
52.409   Policy on delinquent water accounts; due process for disconnections
   
52.410   Adjustments
   
52.411   Re-check of meters
Water Management
   
52.500   Application
   
52.501   Definitions
   
52.502   Declaration of need
   
52.503   Conservation measures
   
52.504   Voluntary conservation
   
52.505   Mandatory conservation
   
52.506   Rationing
   
52.507   Exceptions
   
52.508   Notice
Enforcement
   
52.999   Penalty
ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, individuals, partnership, co-partnership, firm,
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives
or agency.
   PROPERTY. A house or building, together with its land and outbuildings,
occupied by a person or a business.
   WATERWORKS. The system of pipes, reservoirs, channels, mains, and pumping
and purifying equipment by which a water supply is obtained and distributed.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.101 OPERATION OF WATER UTILITY.
   (A)   The management, control and operation of the town’s Municipal
Waterworks is hereby vested in the Town Council and Public Works Department.
   (B)   The town operates the Public Works Department as a municipal utility.
The Waterworks, through the Town Council, may extend water mains to any section
of the town that the Town Council feels is profitable or necessary. Mains may
be extended to a location considered unprofitable by the town, if the cost of
the extension is paid for by the person benefitted.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.102 PROPERTY OF TOWN.
   All meters, pipes and fixtures lying between the water plant and property
line, including all meters wherever located that have been installed by the
town, shall be and remain, under all circumstances, the property of the town.
Special circumstances may be approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.103 TOWN ACCESS TO PIPES AND FIXTURES.
   The town and the Public Works Department shall have at all reasonable times
access to the pipes and fixtures on a user’s property.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.104 TOWN LIABILITY.
   The right to use water from the Town Waterworks is given upon the express
consideration and with the understanding that if, from any cause whatsoever,
the water supply should be temporarily cut off, no damage shall be claimed or
paid on that account, and the water user shall not have any right of action
against the town for such cause.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.105 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall take water from any public source when the act would
obstruct the use of or injure (in any manner) any building, machinery, pipe,
apparatus or fixture of the Waterworks. Exceptions include when authorized by
the Town Council in writing and for fires. When fire hydrants or plugs are
placed on public or private grounds by individuals, companies or corporations,
their use is prohibited, except in case of fire.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner: to injure or deface
the walls or foundations of the Waterworks buildings and wells; to injure any
of the machinery, water pipes, water meters, hydrants or other parts; to
wantonly, maliciously or mischievously open hydrants or water meter pits; to
throw stones or other substances into the wells of the Waterworks; or to break,
loosen or tamper with any seal that may be attached to any appendage of the
Waterworks.
   (C)   No person shall take any water from any public or private hydrant,
plug, street washer, draw cock, hose pipe, fountain, street reservoir, or
fountain basin that was filled, in whole or in part, by the Waterworks, except
by permission of the Public Works Department; nor shall a person in any way use
or take any water furnished by the Waterworks for private use, if that person
is in arrears to the town for any sum due the town for use of water.
   (D)   No person shall in any way change, modify, attach to, or disconnect
from any part of the Waterworks and its appendages, between the Waterworks
plant and the various meters, or open or close any cock or valve lying within
such limits, except upon written permission of the Public Works Department. In
an emergency, licensed plumbers shall contact the Public Works Department for
verbal approval to shut off the water to a property. Only plumbers with
appropriate and active state licenses on file with the Clerk-Treasurer are
allowed emergency access.
   (E)   No person shall interfere with or purposely annoy or disturb any
officer or employee of the Waterworks while engaged in the discharge of his or
her duties as an officer or employee.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
METERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.200 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPER. The person preparing the parcel or parcels for the division.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any one parcel or parcels of land that is to be divided into
smaller parcels of land.
   MUNICIPAL WATER UTILITY. The town or the Town Council.
   USER. A person connecting or connected to the Waterworks.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 7-23-1990; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.201 TOWN WATER METER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The town has established and installed a water meter system for the
purpose of furnishing and supplying the inhabitants and all firms,
corporations, companies, churches, public school buildings and other public
buildings in the town with water, under and subject to the restrictions and
upon the conditions set out in this chapter.
   (B)   All water drawn in any place from the Waterworks shall pass through a
meter that shall correctly measure the quantity of water so passing, except
water passing through fire hydrants.
   (C)   The town may, at its own option, install a water meter for all
persons, churches, school buildings or all other public buildings in town,
which are now using or that my hereafter desire to use and be supplied with
water by the town from the Waterworks.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.202 WATER METERS.
   (A)   The town may require that the user to purchase the meter, but the
meter shall remain the property and under the control of the town.
   (B)   Not more than a single-family, residential property shall be served by
one meter, unless approved by the Town Council in advance. If multiple, single-
family residential units are to be served by one meter, each occupied unit will
be charged at least the minimum monthly charges as set by the Town Council.
   (C)   Each metered property shall have its own separate water supply line
shut-off valve in the street or alley.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.203 WATER METER LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Meters shall be located at the point where the water service first
enters the basement wall. Where there is no basement, the meter shall be
located where the water service first enters the building, or in a meter pit
between the curb and the property line, if the Public Works Department deems it
necessary. Such pits shall be constructed by or at the expense of the user and
in conformity with standard plans on file at the town. The construction shall
be approved by the Public Works Department.
   (B)   Meters shall not be set in inaccessible locations, nor enclosed,
unless written permission is obtained from the Public Works Department. If a
meter is inaccessible or enclosed, making maintenance and reading difficult or
impossible, the Public Works Department may order the user to move the meter to
an accessible location. Any cost of relocation shall be at the expense of the
water user, and may be added to the charge for water usage.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.204 WATER METER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Water service shall be provided with a valve on both sides of each
meter. No fittings, except a coupler or union, shall be placed between a meter
and a curb stop. These valves shall be a full port ball valve or other as
approved by the Public Works Department. A pressure regulating valve must be
installed on the incoming water line prior to any water distribution to a
property.
   (B)   Only authorized employees of the town shall break a seal on a meter or
meter bypass.
   (C)   No person shall ground or electrically connect any radio, telephone or
other electrical system to the discharge side of any water meter.
   (D)   Meters two inches or larger shall have a meter bypass installed, with
proper gate valves that can be sealed by the town.
   (E)   Only authorized town employees shall be allowed to install meter
spacer pipes.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.205 ACCESS TO METERS.
   (A)   Authorized town employees shall have the right to enter any property
on which town water is used to inspect, adjust, read, repair or remove water
meters or appurtenances in connection with the water meters at any reasonable
time. Any user specifically authorizes such entry.
   (B)   Only the town or the Public Works Department may access water meters.
If a user is identified as accessing a water meter pit and adjusting or
shutting off the water meter in any manner, the Public
Works Department shall lock the meter pit. Any person or user identified as
accessing a water meter pit and adjusting or shutting off the water in any
manner, will be fined in accordance with the town’s utilities fee schedule. Any
person or user identified as breaking a lock installed by the Public Works
Department shall be prosecuted.
   (C)   In an emergency, only plumbers with appropriate and active state
licenses on file with the Clerk-Treasurer may access water meters and pits for
emergency repair purposes. The licensed plumber shall contact the Town Hall or
the Public Works Department prior to accessing and completing any work.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.206 DAMAGE TO METERS AND METER READING EQUIPMENT.
   Persons in possession of a property housing a meter shall be responsible for
damages to a meter by heat, frost, the user or other causes not controlled by
the town. The cost of damages to the meter and meter reading equipment shall be
immediately due to the town by the user or persons in possession of the
property.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.207 ALTERATIONS OR CHANGES.
   No person shall change the location of a meter or meter pit, alter the
ground so that it will cover up or create a hazard around the meter pit or stop
box, or in any way obstruct the free access to any water meter, meter pit or
stop box, without the written permission of the Public Works Department.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.208 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR WATER METERS.
   (A)   Meter records, reports, inspections, and tests will be maintained and/
or conducted per 170 I.A.C. 6, Water Utilities.
   (B)   In the event a water meter shall fail to register properly, the Public
Works Department is empowered to estimate the quantity of water used, based on
former consumption, and the town shall charge any user accordingly.
   (C)   If any user desires to have his or her water meter tested, he or she
shall make the request in writing to the town, and deposit with the Public
Works Department a water meter test deposit, as specified in the town’s
utilities fee schedule. The Public Works Department shall test the meter with
the user present at the test.
   (D)   If it wishes to independently test the water meter, the Public Works
Department or its representative is empowered to test the meter in the absence
of the user.
   (E)   If the town determines that the user damaged the meter, the user will
be charged per the town’s utilities fee schedule.
   (F)   A record of the date when each water meter was furnished to the user,
its number and location, shall be kept in the office of the Public Works
Department.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.209 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Each user shall keep his or her own service pipe, stop cocks, and
other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost, at his or her own
expense, and shall prevent all unnecessary waste of water. No claim shall be
made against the town by reason of a freezing or breaking of any service pipes,
stop cocks, or their apparatus, and the user shall provide for all water meters
a safe place, which shall reasonably protect them from damage, jarring,
freezing, excessive heat, or other outside interference of every kind.
   (B)   Upon the discovery of a leaking water service line to a property, the
user will be given a maximum of three days, unless otherwise approved by the
Public Works Department, to repair the service line. Failure to report the leak
will result in discontinued service to that property, pending the repair of the
line.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.210 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All properties shall have an internal shut-off valve from the
Waterworks. Existing properties without an internal shut-off valve shall
install a valve if problems arise or repairs are required with the property’s
water meter.
   (B)   All properties shall install water systems and connections that comply
with this chapter, state plumbing codes, and all applicable AWWA, ASTM and ANSI
standards or town standards.
   (C)   The user shall only use suitable copper or approved plastic material
as set by the Public Works Department for a water service line.
   (D)   Tracer wire shall be 12-gauge AWG copper wire. Splices and branch
connections shall be made with 12 AWG splice kits suitable for underground
installation, according to the following instructions:
      (1)   Remove one-half inch of insulation from wire;
      (2)   Connect wires using a split bolt connector or solder; and
      (3)   Seal connection with epoxy contained in the splice kit, and wrap
with tape.
   (E)   All underground lawn sprinkling systems must have an anti-siphon
breaker installed at least three feet above the highest sprinkling head.
   (F)   No physical connections shall be installed or maintained between lines
carrying potable public water supplies and pipes, pumps or tanks supplied or
capable of being supplied from any non-potable source, except as hereinafter
provided. Where dual supplies are necessary or desirous, lines carrying water
from the public must be protected against back flow of polluted water by such
method or methods as are approved by the Public Health Department for the
state.
   (G)   All 03-closing valves must be compensated by surge chambers.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.211 CONDITIONS FOR PERMISSION TO USE WITHIN A DEVELOPMENT.
   No prospective user shall be granted permission to use if the service line
is located within a development or prospective development unless the following
conditions are met.
   (A)   Development shall be developed with a six-inch water supply line to
each lot within the development so that each individual user may tap into the
six-inch water line, provided that the size of the town’s water supply main
being tapped into is at least six-inches or larger.
   (B)   (1)   The water supply lines to be used by a developer for any
development shall first be approved by the Town Council for material content.
      (2)   Either PVC or ductile iron may be used, providing the manufacturing
pressure rating is adequate for that area’s pressure in the supply main.
   (C)   The water supply lines shall be placed into the ground at a depth of
at least four feet.
   (D)   Each property so metered shall have its own separate water supply line
shut-off valve in the street or alley.
   (E)   All dead-end lines must have a flush hydrant.
   (F)   (1)   The developer shall notify the town of the time installation is
being planned. The town shall inspect all new supply mains.
      (2)   Calcium hypochlorite tablets shall be placed in each section of
pipe, hydrants, or other appurtenances during installation.
      (3)   The supply line shall be filled with water at a velocity of less
than one foot per second.
      (4)   After 24 hours, the supply line is to be flushed and a water sample
will be sent to the State Board of Health for bacteriological tests.
   (G)   (1)   Provided water supply mains of a development have been installed
to the satisfaction of the town, the lines shall become the sole and absolute
property of the town’s Municipal Waterworks after a period of two years.
      (2)   After the two-year period, the town shall properly and adequately
maintain the water line. (Ord. 1990-5, passed 7-23-1990; Am. Ord. 2019-5,
passed 10-07-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.212 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   Any person, commercial building, industrial building, church, public
school, or other public building wishing to take water from the town shall
apply to the town and follow the requirements on the application for water and
sewer service form for connecting and installing a meter, and shall refer to
the town’s utilities fee schedule for the associated cost.
   (B)   Prior to any tap into the town’s Waterworks, the developer and/or user
shall submit the application for water and sewer service form at the Town
Office for approval.
   (C)   The form shall be presented to the Town Council at the next Council
meeting.
   (D)   The Council agrees to act upon the application within 30 days after
filing.
   (E)   Any person or user wishing to temporarily discontinue water service
shall contact the Public Works Department to request the meter be shut off. If
the same person or user wishes to reconnect to the Waterworks, they shall
contact the Public Works Department to request the meter be turned on. The
person or user will be charged a reconnection fee per the town’s utilities fee
schedule.
   (F)   For rental properties, the utility bills may be in the tenant’s name
in single-family homes if stated in the lease. Properties with two or more
dwelling units and only one meter must have utilities remain in the owner’s
name.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 7-23-1990; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.213 REQUIREMENTS OF PROSPECTIVE USERS.
   (A)   (1)   Each prospective user shall pay the necessary water availability
fee and water connection fee identified on the town’s utilities fee schedule.
      (2)   Prospective users who are out of the town’s limits shall pay the
necessary connection fees identified on the town’s utilities fee schedule, plus
time and material required for installation.
   (B)   The water meter deposit for all new water customers is identified on
the town’s utilities fee schedule.
   (C)   A turn-on fee as identified on the town’s utilities fee schedule shall
be charged customers that have been disconnected from service due to non-
payment of billing.
   (D)   Each user shall furnish and maintain his or her own pressure regulator
if needed.
   (E)   Each prospective user shall sign a lease agreement or contract with
the town, stating no other unit shall be allowed to hook into his or her
service line and use water therefrom.
(Ord. 1990-5, passed 7-23-2990; Am. Ord 1996-1, passed 2-5-1996; Am. Ord. 2019-
5, passed 10-07-2019)
Penalty, see §
10.99.
Cross-reference: 
   Establishment of rates and charges, see §
52.401
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL; CONTAMINATION PREVENTION
§ 52.300 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device installed on water pipes that allows water to
flow in one direction, but never in the opposite direction, to prevent drinking
water from being contaminated due to back flow.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the town
water system, and the other, water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gases or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 5-30-2002; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.301 MAINTENANCE OF CROSS CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established, or maintain or permit to be maintained, any cross connection.
   (B)   No interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of the
municipality, unless the private, auxiliary or emergency water supply, and the
method of connection and use of the supply, shall have been approved by the
Public Works Department and by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 5-30-2002; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019) Penalty,
see§
10.99
§ 52.302 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Public Works Department to cause
inspections to be made of all properties served by the Waterworks where cross
connections with the Waterworks are deemed possible.
   (B)   The frequency of inspections and re-inspections, based on potential
health hazards involved, shall be established by the Public Works Department.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 5-30-2002; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.303 RIGHT TO ENTRY.
   (A)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the Public
Works Department shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time
to examine the property served by a connection to the Waterworks for cross
connections.
   (B)   On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of any property so served
shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the
piping system or systems on the property.
   (C)   The refusal of access or the refusal of requested pertinent
information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 5-30-2002; Am, Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 52.304 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Public Works Department is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this subchapter exists, and to take other
precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water system. Discontinuance of service is in
accordance with this chapter and 170 I.A.C. 6-1-16.
   (B)   Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is
served on the owner, lessee or occupants of the property or property where a
violation is found or suspected to exist. Water service to the property shall
not be restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   If it is deemed by the Public Works Department that a cross connection
or an emergency endangers public health, safety or welfare and requires
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer and delivered to the user’s property, service may be immediately
discontinued. The user shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten days of
the emergency discontinuance.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 5-30-2002; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.305 USE OF TOXIC OR HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS.
   All users using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals, mortuaries,
wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all facilities designated as
cross connection hazards under 327 I.A.C. 8-10 shall install and maintain a
reduced-pressure principal backflow preventer in the main water line serving
each building on the property. The backflow preventer must be installed in an
easily accessible location, not subject to flooding or freezing, in accordance
with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 5-30-2002; Am. Ord. 2019-5, 10-07-2019)
§ 52.306 INTERPRETATION WITH INDIANA PLUMBING CODE.
   This subchapter does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, IDEM rule, 327
I.A.C. 8-10, but is supplementary to it.
(Ord. 2002-2, passed S-30-2002; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.400 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DELINQUENCY. A utility service bill that has remained unpaid for a period of
more than 15 days following the due date; late payment charge may be added in
the amount of 10%.
   LATE PAYMENT CHARGE. The one-time penalty assessed by a water utility upon
all current bills at the time as they become delinquent.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.401 ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The Town Waterworks has established rates and charges for water use
and service rendered by the town. Rates and charges shall be set from time to
time by the Town Council, based on the use of water supplied by the Waterworks.
Rates and charges are specified on the town’s utilities fee schedule.
   (B)   Each user shall pay a water availability fee in accordance with the
size of meter installed, for which the user will be entitled to the quantity of
water set in the metered schedule of rates.
   (C)   Fire protection sprinklers.
      (1)   Service under the rate shall consist of standby service for fire
emergencies and all water taken through the connections shall be restricted to
fire emergencies only.
      (2)   The Public Works Department reserves the right to install flow
detectors from time to time to see that the service is restricted to
firefighting purposes.
   (D)   Fire hydrants. The hydrant rental fee is established in the town’s
utilities fee schedule.
   (E)   Once a utility account is established, the billing will reflect who is
responsible for the bill, as well as the meter deposit. If the account is in
the name of two separate individuals and one of the individuals chooses to be
removed from the account, the meter deposit will go back to the person who paid
it, and the person of residence will have to pay a new meter deposit.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 2-21-2000; Am. Ord. 2009-2, passed S-4-2009; Am. Ord.
2019-5, passed 10-07-2019) Cross-reference:
   Requirements of prospective users, see §
52.213
§ 52.402 TAPPING AND AVAILABILITY FEES.
   (A)   Each user shall pay a water connection fee at the time of the
connection to cover the cost of tapping the main, furnishing and laying service
pipe, corporation and stop cocks, service and meter box, and installing the
meter. Rates and charges are specified on the town’s utilities fee schedule.
   (B)   The water availability fee for a five-eighths-inch meter tap inside
the corporate limits is set in the town’s utilities fee schedule. The charge
for a five-eighths-inch or larger meter tap outside the corporate limits will
be the water availability fee, plus cost of labor and materials, as set in the
town’s utilities fee schedule.
   (C)   In addition to any other fees or charges paid to the Waterworks to
establish a water connection, any new user requesting a new connection to the
town’s Waterworks shall pay a one-time water availability fee, based upon the
meter size of the connection in accordance with the rate studies prepared, in
amounts as set from time to time by the Town Council. Rates and charges are
specified on the town’s utilities fee schedule.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 2-21-2000; Am. Ord. 2007-1, passed 5-7-2007; Am. Ord.
2009-2, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.403 COLLECTION OR DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGE.
   (A)   All bills for water service not paid within 15 days of the due date
stated on such bills shall be delinquent and subject to a late payment charge
in the amount of 10%.
   (B)   Delinquent notices are mailed the first business day after the due
date on such bills.
   (C)   Delinquent notice payments are due on the twenty-eighth of the month.
If the due date falls on a weekend or a government holiday, the bill is due the
following business day. Disconnection service may occur the next business day
after 9:00 a.m.
(Old. 2000-2, passed 2-21-2000; Am. Ord. 2009-2, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord.
2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.404 TEMPORARY USERS.
   Water furnished to temporary users, such as contractors, circuses, and the
like, shall be charged based on the above quantity rates as estimated by the
Public Works Department.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 2-21-2000; Am. Ord. 2009-2, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord.
2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.405 TURN-ON FEES.
   A reconnection fee, as set in the town’s utilities fee schedule, shall be
charged for reinstating water service to a customer after any disconnection.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 2-21-2000; Am. Ord. 2009-2, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord.
2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.406 USER DEPOSIT.
   (A)   a water meter deposit shall be charged before service is initially
connected for the user. Once the account is established, the utility bill will
identify the person responsible for the bill and the person responsible for the
water meter deposit. Charges are set in the town’s utilities fee schedule.
   (B)   The water meter deposit shall be returned to the person identified on
the bill when the user has terminated water service, provided all charges due
and owing from the user are paid.
      (1)   If the account is in the name of two separate individuals and one
individual chooses to be removed from the account, the deposit will be refunded
to the person identified as paying the water meter deposit, and the person of
residence will pay a new meter deposit. The Utility Billing Clerk and the
Clerk-Treasurer may, at their discretion, accept a written letter from the
individual to transfer the water meter deposit to the person in residence.
      (2)   If the user identified on the bill as paying the water meter
deposit dies, a person may obtain the deposit by providing the Utility Billing
Clerk and the Clerk-Treasurer a death certificate and legal power of attorney.
      (3)    In extreme cases, the meter deposit may be applied to the balance
of the account if approved by the Town Council.
   (C)   The user must notify the Utilities Office of the forwarding address of
the payment. The meter deposit refund must be approved by the Council before
the payment is mailed.
   (D)   Once the customer’s utility account is “FINALED” in the utility
accounting software, the meter deposit will be applied to the unpaid balance of
the account if the customer’s account is considered delinquent. The meter
deposit will first be applied to the outstanding water charges and if there is
a balance of the meter deposit left, it will be applied to any outstanding
wastewater charges. After the meter deposit is applied to the delinquent
account, any additional outstanding utility charges will be sent to
collections. After the meter deposit is applied and/or if the account has a
credit balance, all reasonable attempts will be made to return the balance to
the customer as set forth in division (E).
   (E)   Unapplied or partial meter deposits will be mailed to the utility
customer at the last known address the customer has provided to the utility
billing department. If the customers’ meter deposit is returned due to an
inadequate address it will be considered unclaimed. If for whatever reason, a
meter deposit is not requested to be returned to the customer or applied to
another property in town, the deposit will be considered unclaimed 45 days
after the initial account has been determined to be final.
      (1)   Any unclaimed meter deposits will be transferred to the Water
Operating Fund at the end of June and the end of December of that fiscal year.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 2-21-2000; Am. Ord. 2009-2, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord.
2019-5, passed 10-07-2019; Am. Ord. 2023-8, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 52.407 MULTIPLE BILLING UNITS.
   (A)   In the case of multiple apartment houses, trailer courts, or business
houses occupied by more than one person, each apartment, trailer and business
shall be considered a separate billing unit, and each unit shall be equipped
with a separate water meter.
   (B)   In the event that the Town Council approves a metered property that
has more than one user operating off of one meter due to the inability of the
town to separately meter the different users for any reason, then the record
owner of the property shall be responsible for the full payment of the water
bill on a monthly basis; and the owner’s collection of a contributing share
from the other users shall be the owner’s sole responsibility.
   (C)   In the event a user wishes to obtain a separate meter from the owner’s
meter, and it is structurally able to be installed, the user will follow the
procedure of application as stated in § §
52.212 and
52.213. The application shall be accompanied by documentation, from the record
owner, that permission has been granted to do such.
(Ord. 18, passed 3-23-1960; Am. Ord. 2009-2, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord. 2019-5,
passed 10-07-2019; Am. Ord. 2023-3, passed 4-3-2023)
§ 52.408 BAD CHECK CHARGE.
   When a customer’s check is not honored due to insufficient funds, a charge
for processing same will be made by the utility in an amount as set in the
town’s utilities fee schedule.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.409 POLICY ON DELINQUENT WATER ACCOUNTS; DUE PROCESS FOR DISCONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The town shall follow the requirements for disconnection of service,
prohibited disconnections, and re-connections as specified in this section and
170 I.A.C. 6-1-16.
   (B)   For disconnection of service upon the user’s request, the user shall:
      (1)   Notify the utility at least three days in advance of the day
disconnection is desired; and
      (2)   Remain responsible for all service used and the billings until
service is disconnected pursuant to such notice.
   (C)   Upon request by a customer of a utility to disconnect service, the
utility shall disconnect the service within three working days of the requested
disconnection date. The customer shall not be liable for a service rendered to
the address or location after the expiration of this three-day period.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall give at least seven days written notice of
nonpayment before involuntary disconnection. The customer shall pay the
delinquent amount or contact the Clerk-Treasurer to make payment arrangements
before the date of disconnection on the notice.
      (1)   Only one payment arrangement per calendar year will be allowed.
      (2)   The written notice to the customer shall either be by:
         (a)   Mailing the notice to the residential customer at the address
shown on the records of the utility; or
         (b)   Personal delivery of the notice to the residential customer, or
a responsible member of his or her household, at the address shown on the
records of the utility.
      (3)   If payment or arrangements has not been done before date on the
notice, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the shut-off notice and give notice to
the Public Works Department to turn off the water. The Public Works Department
employee shall knock on the door, if the user is home, to advise that the water
service is being disconnected. If no one is home, the Public Works Department
employee is to disconnect water and leave a red tag on the door. Any variation
to this policy shall be cleared with the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Disconnections of service by the utility may occur without notice to
the user only:
      (1)   If a condition dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety, or
property exists;
      (2)   Upon order by any court, the Commission, or other duly authorized
public authority;
      (3)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of water is detected and the
utility has reasonable grounds to believe the affected customer is responsible
for the use; or
      (4)   If the utility’s regulating or measuring equipment has been
tampered with and the utility has reasonable grounds to believe that the
affected customer is responsible for the tampering.
   (F)   Due process for disconnections.
      (1)   Any person who is delinquent on their water or combined water/sewer
bill and is subject to disconnection for nonpayment must be notified before the
Waterworks Committee, consisting of the Town Council President, Clerk-
Treasurer, and Deputy Clerk-Treasurer/Utility Clerk to determine the
appropriateness of the disconnection.
      (2)   If a Waterworks user desires to request a hearing contesting the
fairness of disconnection for nonpayment of their water, or combined water/
sewer bill, the customer shall request such hearing in writing at the Liberty
Town Hall, 1 South Fairground, Liberty IN 47353, within seven business days
after the date of the mailing of a disconnection notice.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord. 2013-2, passed 8-19-2013; Am. Ord.
2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.410 ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   A customer requesting an adjustment on the water portion of their
bill, must appear before the Town Council with such request.
   (B)   The Town Council have the discretion on whether to allow or deny the
adjustment on the water portion of the bill.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 52.411 RE-CHECK OF METERS.
   (A)   The Utility Billing Clerk can request a re-check of a meter to correct
an employee error or if it is thought that the meter is experiencing mechanical
issues provided the threshold set forth in division (B) is met or the Clerk-
Treasurer otherwise approves.
   (B)   The threshold to conduct a re-check for a 5/8" or a 3/4" size meter is
that 10,000 gallons or more water has run through the meter during a single
billing period. The threshold to conduct a re- check for a 1" or larger meter
is that 20,000 gallons or more water has run through the meter during a single
billing period.
   (C)   Property owners can request a re-check if they believe a leak has
occurred. Concurrent meter reading requests will not be considered.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-5-2024)
WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 52.500 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all persons, firms, partnerships,
corporations, company or organizations connected to the town public water
system or using water therefrom.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-6-2010; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINISHED WATER. Water treated in a manner that is suitable for human
consumption.
   MANDATORY CONSERVATION. Compliance with a local unit of government’s
imposition of requirements that are designed to reduce certain kinds and types
of water use.
   TREATED WATER. Water treated in a manner that is suitable for human
consumption or for another designated use.
   VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION. Compliance with a local unit of government’s request
to reduce water use.
   WATER RATIONING. Compliance with a local unit of government’s imposition of
restrictions that will reduce demand for water to a maximum allowable quantity
within a finite time interval (e.g., gallons per person per day).
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-06-2010; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.502 DECLARATION OF NEED.
   Upon determining that the town’s Waterworks is in a condition of water
shortage, the Town Council shall declare a water conservation emergency and
establish the appropriate measures and the duration thereof.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-06-2010; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.503 CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Practices that conserve water should always be used. Examples of
conservation measures include:
   (A)   Judiciously sprinkling, watering, or irrigating shrubbery, trees,
grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables or any other
vegetation; eliminating wasteful sprinkling of impervious surfaces such as
streets and sidewalks;
   (B)   Limiting water use while washing trucks, trailers, mobile homes, or
any other type of mobile equipment;
   (C)   Limiting water use while cleaning sidewalks, driveways, paved areas or
other outdoor surfaces;
   (D)   Repairing or replacing leaking water fixtures and service lines;
   (E)   Using appliances, such as clothes washers and dishwashers, only when
they are full;
   (F)   Turning off water while brushing teeth or shaving;
   (G)   Using a higher lawnmower setting to provide natural ground shade and
promote the soil’s water retention;
   (H)   Washing cars with a bucket of soapy water and using a nozzle to stop
the flow of water from the hose between rinsing;
   (I)   Covering swimming pools when not in use to reduce evaporation.
(Ord. 2010-4, 12-06-2010; Am, Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.504 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   During moderate water shortages, users shall be requested to reduce water
consumption by practicing voluntary conservation. The town shall identify
reasonable and meaningful conservation techniques and provide such information
to users. The town may also implement conservation pricing and prohibitions to
encourage water conservation.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-06-2010; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.505 MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   In accordance with § 51.81, users shall be prohibited from the water uses
listed below, subject to reasonable terms, times and conditions as the
governing body shall determine:
   (A)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass, ground
covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables or any other vegetation;
   (B)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad cars
or any other type of mobile equipment;
   (C)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, paved areas or other
outdoor surfaces;
   (D)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment or machinery;
   (E)   The filling of swimming pools, wading pools and ornamental fountains;
   (F)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.506 RATIONING.
   In addition to mandatory conservation measures, users shall be limited
during extreme water shortage to water use by the foregoing schedule.
   (A)   Residential use shall be limited to 100 gallons per residential unit
per day.
   (B)   Business, commercial, agricultural and industrial users shall be
limited to the volume of water deemed to be essential.
(Old. 2010-4, passed 12-06-2010; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.507 EXCEPTIONS.
   The town shall establish rationing exemptions necessary to provide for the
maintenance of adequate health, safety and sanitary conditions.
(Ord. 2010-4, 12-06-2010 ; Am. Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
§ 52.508 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be by publication in a
local newspaper of general circulation or other means as deemed appropriate by
the Town Council. The notice shall be effective upon publication.
   (B)   Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be by first class
Untied States mail, by other door-to-door distribution to each current user, or
by electronic and print media. The notice shall be deemed effective at noon of
the third day after depositing same in the United States mail, or the date the
information was posted or sent electronically.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by fines in
accordance with the general penalty provisions contained in §
10.99, and in accordance with I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10) for ordinance violations,
I.C. 36-1-6-2 for collection of fines through property liens, and I.C. 36-1-6-
4 for civil actions by a municipality.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 10-07-2019)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.100   Definitions
   
53.101   Operation of sewer utility
   
53.102   Compliance with state and federal law
   
53.103   Right of entry
   
53.104   Responsibility for obstructing or damaging sewers
   
53.105   Special agreements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.106   Permit required for sewer connections
   
53.200   Owner’s liability; duty to indemnify town
   
53.201   Requirement of separate sewers; exemption
   
53.202   Use of old building sewers
   
53.203   Ownership of building sewers
   
53.204   Building sewer construction standards
   
53.205   Excavations
   
53.206   Control manhole
   
53.207   Inspection
   
53.208   Force main connection requirements using grind pump units
(residential, small business)
   
53.209   Illicit connections to the sewer
   
53.210   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
Wastewater Admissibility
   
53.300   Unlawful activity
   
53.301   Discharge of storm water and other unpolluted drainage
   
53.302   Privy, privy vaults, cesspools or septic tanks
   
53.303   General prohibited discharges
   
53.304   Specific prohibited discharges
   
53.305   Dilution
   
53.306   Hauled wastewater
   
53.307   Right to revision
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
53.400   Purpose and objectives
   
53.401   Applicable users
   
53.402   Connections and surcharges
   
53.403   Right to reject waste or require pretreatment
   
53.404   General requirements
   
53.405   Wastewater discharge approval
   
53.406   Notification to Public Works Department
   
53.407   Review of industrial users
   
53.408   Industrial user charges and fees
   
53.409   Accidental discharge; slug control; solvent management plans
   
53.410   Liability for maintenance of pretreatment and other equipment
Rates and Charges
   
53.500   Reserved for future use
    
53.501   Collection
   
53.502   Quantity discharged; duty to install and maintain methods of
measurement
   
53.503   Connection charge
   
53.504   Billings
   
53.505   Tap-in fee
   
53.506   Availability fee
Enforcement
   
53.900   Authorization of town to enforce
   
53.901   Notice of violations
   
53.902   Administrative fines
   
53.903   Consent orders
   
53.904   Show cause hearing
   
53.905   Compliance orders
   
53.906   Cease and desist orders
   
53.907   Emergency suspension
   
53.908   Termination of discharge
   
53.909   Cost recovery
   
53.910   Judicial action
   
53.911   Remedies nonexclusive
   
53.912   Unpaid charges
   
53.913   Right to appeal
   
53.914   Adjustments
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicate or require a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Pub. L. 92-500), also known as
the Clean Water Act of 1977, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. (Pub. L. 95-
217); as well as any guidelines, limitations and standards promulgated by the
Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Act.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial wastes, shall mean the quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   BUILDING (or HOUSE) DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building
drainage system that receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to a point approximately five
feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain that conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain that conveys storm water or other
clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING (or HOUSE) LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain to
the sewerage system or other place of disposal.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer that conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer that conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted waters
or industrial wastes, is a measure of the oxygen equivalent of that portion of
the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a strong
chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids,
pH, and fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants if the treatment
works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact does remove such
pollutants to a substantial degree. The term substantial degree is not subject
to precise definition. Based upon normal domestic waste, SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE
generally contemplates removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor
incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial.
Examples of the additional pollutants that may be compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorous and phosphorous compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin; except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council or any duly authorized officials acting on its
behalf.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater from typical residential users and having
pollutant characteristics of not greater than 250 mg/l BOD and 250 mg/
l suspended solids.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right to the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT. Water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing out
of a drain, sewer,
receptacle or outlet.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The United States Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a
designation for the administrator or other duly authorized official of that
agency.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge billed to users for
treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal domestic
sewage.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of several organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GREASE AND OIL. A group of substances, including hydrocarbons, fatty acids,
soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material, that is extracted by a solvent
from an acidified sample and that is not volatilized during the laboratory test
procedures. Greases and oils are defined by the method of their determination
in accordance with Standard Methods.
   GREASE AND OIL OF ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE ORIGIN. Substances of biodegradable
nature such as are discharged by meat packing, vegetable oil and fat
industries, food processors, canneries and restaurants.
   GREASE AND OIL OF MINERAL ORIGIN. Substances that are less readily
biodegradable than grease and oil of animal or vegetable origin; and are
derived from a petroleum source. Such substances include machinery lubricating
oils, gasoline station wastes, petroleum refinery wastes, and storage depots
wastes.
   GROUND (SHREDDED) GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that
all panicles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions normally
prevailing in the sewerage system, with no particle being greater than one-half
inch in dimension.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, such as chemical toilets,
campers, trailers, septic tanks, vacuum pump trucks, and the like.
   I.A.C. Indiana Administrative Code.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids, and further defined in
the general pretreatment regulations, 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.
   INDIANA DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT (IDEM). The control authority
for non-delegated, industrial discharge pretreatment requirements.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT (IWP) PERMIT. A permit to deposit or
discharge industrial waste into any sanitary sewer as issued by IDEM.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business process, or from the development, recovery or processing
of any natural resource carried on by a person, and shall further mean any
waste from an industrial user.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including sewer service
connections, from the ground through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including service
connections from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, cistern overflows, cooling water
discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross
connections from storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters,
surface run-off, street wastewaters or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is
distinguished from infiltration.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the public
sewer system.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does one of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the sewage works, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods,
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the town’s NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
      (3)   Prevents the use of the POTW’s sewage sludge or its sludge disposal
method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations or permits issued thereunder or more stringent federal, state, or
local laws, rules or regulations:
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345), as it may
be amended;
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. § 6901), as it
may be amended, including: Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), as it may be amended; and the rules
contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D
of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. § 6941), as it may be amended;
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401), as it may be amended;
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. § 2601), as it may
be amended.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the town
upon industrial or commerce facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MAY. Indicates a discretionary condition.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body or surface or
ground water.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a Section 307(c) (33 U.S.C. §
1317) categorical pretreatment standard that will be applicable to such source,
if such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
the proposed regulation, a NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of
which is commenced after the date or promulgation of the standard.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. For the purpose of determining surcharges, the term
shall mean wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows: BOD not more than 240 mg/l; TSS not more than 240 mg/l; and ammonia
not more than 10 mg/l. As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated
domestic and/or sanitary conveyances are distinct from wastes from industrial
processes.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT (NPDES) PERMIT. A
permit setting forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or
combination of pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant
to Section 402 of Pub. L. 95-217.
   NUISANCE. Anything injurious to health or offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the free use of property to interfere with the comfort or
enjoyment of life or property.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on
a continuing basis, and to produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   PASS THROUGH. The discharge of pollutants by an industrial user through the
POTW into navigable waters in quantities or concentrations that are a cause of
or significantly contribute to a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s
NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) and as defined in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.3(n).
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership, co-
partnership, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the State of Indiana, the United
States of America, or other legal entity, or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the
singular shall include the plural, where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution expressed in gram atoms per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and
agricultural waste discharged into water.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by waste
to a degree that unreasonably affects such waters for beneficial uses or
facilities that serve such beneficial uses. The man-made or man-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of
water.
   PREMISES. A parcel of real estate, including any single improvement thereon,
determined by the town to be a single user for purposes of receiving, using and
paying for service. Any additional improvement on the same parcel of real
estate determined by the town to be a user shall be separately connected to the
sewer for the purpose of receiving, using and paying for service.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration
can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, process changes
or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6(d): and shall
include all applicable rules and regulations contained in the Code of Federal
Regulations as published in the Federal Register, under Section 307 of Pub. L.
95-217, under regulation 40 C.F.R. pt. 403 pursuant to the Act and amendments.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any state pretreatment standards as established in
327 I.A.C.. 5-18-8; pretreatment standards for prohibited discharges, as
established in 327 I.A.C. 5-18-2; National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
incorporated by reference in 327 I.A.C. 5-18-10.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A pipe or conduit that is not owned by public authority.
   PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Procedures executed in a prudent, cost-
effective, and workmanlike manner that achieve the highest and/or required
effluent quality of industrial discharge attainable in conformance with the
best available technology and practices. PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
REQUIREMENTS include avoidance of operational error, adherence to manual
instructions, preventive maintenance, avoidance of careless or improper
operation, neat accurate sampling, the handling of chemicals, lubricants,
solvents and the like in a safe and organized manner, avoidance of accidental
spillage, keeping operating logs, and any other activities that produce the
desired effluent quality.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A pipe or conduit owned and controlled by the town, consisting
of the following increments:
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges;
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure;
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility;
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works owned in this
instance by the town, except that it does not include pipes, sewers or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. The term includes
any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage or compatible industrial wastes.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or
appurtenances necessary during the useful life of the sewage works equipment to
maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were designed and
constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying wastewater and to which
storm, surface and
ground waters and unpolluted industrial wastewater are not intentionally
admitted.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting, pumping, treating
and disposing of sewage and sludge.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM. The sewerage system shall be classified as sanitary sewers
and storm sewers.
   SHALL. Indicates a mandatory condition.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).
      (1)   Industrial users subject to pretreatment standards under 327 I.A.C.
5-18-10;
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 or more gallons per day (gpd) of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the Public Works Department on the
basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to adversely affect
the POTW’s operation, violate a pretreatment standard, or violate a requirement
of 327 I.A.C. 5-19-3;
      (3)   The approval authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or a POTW, and in accordance with
327 I.A.C. 5-19-3(6), determine that an industrial is not a significant
industrial user if it does not meet division (2)(c) of this definition.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects, as defined in standards issued under Sections 402
and 405 of the Federal Act, and in the applicable requirements under §§
3001,3004 and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, Pub. L. 94-580, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater that in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than five minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flow during normal operation, and that adversely affects the sewage works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972, as amended and supplemented.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for receiving storm and surface water,
street wash, or drainage, but excludes domestic sewage or industrial waste.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic service charge.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Solids that either float on the surface of or
are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquid, and that are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative termination shall be made in accordance with procedures set
forth in Standard Methods.
   TOWN. The town acting by and through the Council.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in Section 307 (a) of the Act
as well as any other known potential substances capable of producing toxic
effects.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to sanitary sewers
and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a user unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the standards set forth in this
chapter due to factors beyond the reasonable control of the user, and excluding
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
pretreatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance, or careless or
improper operation thereof.
   USER. Any person that discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewerage system.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Section 204(b)
of Pub. L. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (such
as, residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service that, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, relics and/or educational function which, based on a determination
by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, and the like.
   UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT. The administrative head of the POTW and sewage
works.
   WASTE. Includes sanitary sewage and any and all other waste substances,
liquid, solid, gaseous or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of
human or animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing or
industrial operation of whatever nature, including such waste placed within
containers of whatever nature prior to and for purposes of disposal.
   WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste from residences, business buildings,
situations, and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological, and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate, and such other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Any water, surface or underground, within the
boundaries of the State of Indiana, except confined waters in sewers, tanks and
the like.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-2-1950; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.101 OPERATION OF SEWER UTILITY.
   (A)   The management, control and operation of the town’s sewage works is
hereby vested in the Town Council and the Public Works Department.
   (B)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the sewage
works and enables the town to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 C.F.R. pt. 403).
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to the town and to persons outside the town
who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users of the sewage works.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the town shall administer, implement and
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.102 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   (A)   All provisions of this chapter, and limits set forth herein, shall
comply with any applicable state and/or federal requirements now or projected
to be in effect.
   (B)   If federal pretreatment standards or state requirements are more
stringent than those identified in this chapter, then those limitations shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.103 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Public Works Department employees and other duly authorized employees
of the town, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted
to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The Public Works Department shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Public Works Department shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company
shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town employees, and the town
shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by town
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions.
   (C)   Public Works Department employees, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within the easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.104 RESPONSIBILITY FOR OBSTRUCTING OR DAMAGING SEWERS.
   If a public sewer becomes obstructed or damaged because of any of the
substances identified in this chapter were improperly discharged, the person or
persons responsible for such discharge shall be billed and shall pay for the
expenses incurred by the POTW in cleaning out, repairing or rebuilding the
sewer.
§ 53.105 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting any
special agreement or arrangement between the town and any person, whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the POTW for treatment, whether with or without
pretreatment, provided that such agreement does not violate National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards for the specific category of industrial
user, provided that there is not impairment of the functioning of the sewage
works by reason of the admission of such wastes, and provided that no extra
costs are incurred by the POTW without recompense by that person.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.106 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use alter or disturb any public sewer, or appurtenance thereof,
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service, and for service to establishments producing material
wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the Inspector.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.200 OWNER’S LIABILITY; DUTY TO INDEMNIFY TOWN.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connections of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (B)   The owner of real estate for which a building sewer has been installed
is financially and otherwise responsible for the proper operation and
maintenance of the building sewer, from the building itself to and including
the tap into the town mainline sewer. The town is not responsible for the
operation or maintenance of any such privately owned building sewer, including
the tap.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.201 REQUIREMENT OF SEPARATE SEWERS; EXEMPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway; the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building, and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.202 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.203 OWNERSHIP OF BUILDING SEWERS.
   Upon adoption of this chapter, property owners are responsible for building
sewers or laterals from the property connection to the sewer main. Any building
sewer or lateral replaced or installed after the adoption of this chapter, and
upon a passing inspection from the town, will be under ownership of the town,
from the right-of-way or property line to the sewer main.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.204 BUILDING SEWER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointly
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M
and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface run-off ground
water to a building sewer or building drain that, in turn, is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (D)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F, Manual of Practice No.
9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and watertight. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.205 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-2-1950; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.206 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   All new building sewer or lateral connections for industrial and commercial
users shall install a suitable control manhole with such necessary meters and
other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling
and measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessible
and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the Public Works Department. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at
his or her expense, and shall always be maintained by the owner to be safe and
accessible.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.207 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Agents of the town shall be allowed entry into the houses to inspect
all the houses (particularly the basement areas and the areas in the vicinity
of the sanitary sewer) connected to the town’s sanitary sewer.
   (B)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Public
Works Department when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Inspector or his or her representative.
   (C)   The inspections shall be limited to basements and the areas of the
sanitary drains.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-7-1994; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019) Penalty, see
§
53.999
§ 53.208 FORCE MAIN CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS USING GRIND PUMP UNITS
(RESIDENTIAL, SMALL BUSINESS).
   (A)   The following requirements pertain to dwellings that require a grinder
pump to connect to the Town of Liberty's collection system. Owners are
responsible for the installation, operation, maintenance and replacement of the
entire wastewater collection system within their property.
   (B)   A tap will be installed by the town and the cost for such shall be
taken from the tap fee. In the event a tap fee is not required, owners are
responsible for all costs associated with connecting to the sanitary sewer.
   (C)   No work can begin until the tap fee has been paid and a permit to
connect has been approved. In addition, a utility locate request must be
submitted to the Indiana Underground Plant Protection Services (IUPPS). The
“dig request number” issued by the IUPPS must be entered on the tap permit. For
properties requiring a road bore, a right-of-way/road bore permit must be
obtained from the Indiana Department of Transportation. The tap/connection fee
must be paid before the permit is applied for.
      (1)   All applicable requirements in the "Procedure for Sanitary Sewer
Connection" must be satisfied.
      (2)   The town recommends hiring a qualified contractor and/or
electrician to ensure that the connection's design, installation and operation
will provide safe, efficient and uninterrupted service under all conditions.
Contractors or owners working within the public portion of the sanitary sewer
must provide evidence of liability insurance. A copy must be on file before the
work can begin.
      (3)   The dwelling's plumbing shall be designed and installed to allow
only typical residential wastewater to enter the public sewer. Floor drains,
sump pumps and other similar appurtenances shall not be connected to the
dwelling's sewer. Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface draining or cooling water shall not be discharged into the public
sewer.
      (4)   Building sewer must be a direct watertight connection to the public
sewer. Septic/holding tanks and other similar structures cannot be part of the
service and must be abandoned in accordance with state requirements (contact
local health department).
      (5)   All subsurface pipe and fittings must be new 4" (minimum diameter)
gasketed SDR 35 PVC.
      (6)   Solvent weld (glued) pipe and fittings (SDR 35 or Schedule 40 PVC)
and FERNCO couplings may be used in appropriate above ground applications.
      (7)   Laterals should be installed at a normal slope of 1/4" per foot.
Minimum slope shall be 1/8" foot.
      (8)   The bell end of the sewer pipe shall be laid upgrade.
      (9)   The town recommends installing the lateral below the frost
penetration depth or at a minimum of 30".
      (10)   The town requires the installation of a cleanout at or near the
point where the sewer exits the dwelling. Additional cleanouts may be required
every 100' or where a change of direction greater than 45 degrees is needed.
      (11)   Bends in the building sewer should be avoided where possible.
Changes in direction may not be accomplished using 90-degree fittings. Two 45-
degree ells and a short piece of pipe must be used where a change in direction
of 9-degrees is needed.
      (12)   Acceptable methods and materials must be used to ensure that the
building sewer is properly bedded and covered.
      (13)   Bedding and cover shall consist of angular, 1/8" to 1" in
diameter, washed and graded or crushed stone. The pipe must have a 2" bed and
2" cover of stone. Native material taken from the trench may be used for the
balance of the backfill provided it is stone free and well broken up.
      (14)   Prior to beginning installation, an authorized representative of
the town shall inspect all materials to ensure they are of sufficient type and
quantity to complete the installation. The town reserves the right to
reschedule the work should they determine there is insufficient or improper
materials onsite that would prevent the installation from being completed in an
efficient, timely or safe manner.
      (15)   The owner shall furnish and install, under the town's supervision,
a complete packaged grinder pump station. The unit shall consist of a factory-
built and tested grinder pump(s) suitably mounted in a basin/vault constructed
of fiberglass, high-density polyethylene (HDPE) or concrete. If concrete is
used, the vault must be sealed and watertight. Concrete vaults may be subjected
to a standard leakage test. The unit shall consist of a rail lift system, all
non-corrosive material (plastic, fiberglass or stainless steel), guide rails,
upper guide bracket, discharge piping and check valve (this may be part of the
rail lift assembly), shut-off valve with extension handle, Nema 4 junction box
with cord grips for all pump and control wires. Each unit shall have a control
panel consisting of a pump circuit breaker, contractor overload, start
components, hand-off auto (HOA) switch, pump run light, seal fail light, alarm
light and buzzer with a rest and silence switch. The panel shall be suitable
for mounting on the dwelling exterior wall or a freestanding post. Mounting on
freestanding post next to the basin is recommended. A station varying from the
above shall be permitted provided the station has been determined to be a town
approved equal.
         (a)   The grinder pump unit (lift station) must be located within 25
feet of the dwelling. Any location greater than 25 feet must be approved by the
town.
         (b)   The town strongly recommends that the basin/vault be of ample
volume to provide adequate storage capacity in the event of lift station
failure due to power outages, peak usage complications or mechanical failure. A
duplex lift station may be required for commercial applications.
         (c)   The control panel shall include audio and visual alarms, a push-
to-test switch, high- level float switch and a hand-off auto (HOA) pump
starting control switch. Elapsed time meter(s) (minutes) are also recommended.
         (d)   The pumps shall be capable of delivering, at a minimum, 0 GPM
against a rated total dynamic head of 106 feet (46.0 PSIG) and 10 GPM against a
rated total dynamic head of 100 feet (43.4 PSIG). The pump(s) must also be
capable of operating from 20 feet negative total dynamic head to shut-off head
without overloading the motor(s) or relying on a mechanical protection device.
Under no conditions shall in-line piping or valving be allowed to create a
false apparent head.
         (e)   Owner shall be notified should the proposed location require
pumps capable of operating in excess of 100 feet (43.4 PSIG) total dynamic
head. Said determination may not be possible until the town has tapped and
press checked the force main.
         (f)   All equipment shall be a product of a company experienced in the
design and manufacture of grinder pumps for specific use in low-pressure sewage
systems.
         (g)   All materials exposed to wastewater shall have inherent
corrosion protection. The materials shall be made of brass, bronze, fiberglass,
stainless steel, or PVC.
         (h)   The grinder pump and controls shall be free from electrical and
fire hazards as required in a residential environment. The completely assembled
and wired grinder pump station should be listed by Underwriters Laboratories,
Inc. to be safe and appropriate for the intended use.
         (i)   The grinder pump shall meet accepted standards for plumbing
equipment for use in or near residences, shall be free from noise, odor, or
health hazards, and shall have been tested by an independent laboratory to
certify its capability to perform as specified in either individual or low
pressure sewer system applications. The unit shall bear the National Sanitation
Foundation seal.
         (j)   Installation of the unit shall be accomplished so that the
finished height of the basin/vault extends above the ground. The finished grade
shall slope away from the unit. The lid of the basin/vault shall be gasketed
and watertight,
         (k)   A concrete anti-flotation collar is recommended when using a
fiberglass or high- density polyethylene basin,
         (l)   All piping and fittings shall meet accepted standards for
plumbing equipment and shall be manufactured and tested in accordance with all
applicable wastewater service specifications.
      (16)   The service (discharge) line from the grinder unit shall be
constructed using appropriate diameter SDR 21 PVC or DR II High Density
Polyethylene (HDPE) PE 3408 (or an approved equal). Tracer wire is recommended
to be run with the discharge line.
      (17)   The service (discharge) line shall be installed in a straight and
uniform manner. Changes in direction can not be accomplished using 90-degree
fittings.
      (18)   The service (discharge) line shall be extended and connect to a
town installed curb stop or tap. Typically, the town will locate the curb stop
approximately 1' inside of the owner's property line. A valve box will be
placed over the curb stop to provide ready access if needed.
      (19)   Bedding of the service (discharge) line is not required provided
the trench floor is smooth and the cover is stone free and broken up.
      (20)   Connection to the public sewer (tap) including excavation must be
made under the direct supervision of an authorized town representative. Extreme
caution must be used when locating and connecting to the end of the public
sewer. The valve must be excavated by hand. At no time should excessive
pressure (pushing or pulling) be exerted on the service. To do so could result
in damage to the tap.
      (21)   Appropriate transition couplings are required to connect the
service (discharge) line to the town installed curb stop or tap.
      (22)   Support and/or bracing of all valves is required.
      (23)   The service (discharge) line from the lift station below the frost
penetration depth or at a minimum depth 30".
      (24)   The lift station shall be installed and operational prior to
connecting to the tap. This will allow open trench inspection of the system
under operating conditions.
      (25)   Service (discharge) lines not immediately connected to an
installed curb shall be capped, marked and covered until the tap can be made.
      (26)   Owner must ensure that all state and local requirements are
satisfied during the entire process. Town standards are designed to work in
conjunction with all state and local requirements.
      (27)   The complete installation must be in accordance with all
manufacturers' specifications and recommendations.
      (28)   Onsite inspection by an authorized town representative during
installation is required. Open trench inspection of the entire installation is
required should complications prevent continuous onsite inspection.
      (29)   Inspection services are required to ensure adherence to town
specifications and provide guidance or clarification. Liability and safety
restrictions prevent inspectors from physically assisting during the
installation. The town strongly encourages owners to have appropriate personnel
available to complete the installation.
      (30)   Inspection services are available between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
to 4:00 p.m. (excluding weekends and holidays). No work, can begin after 10:00
a.m. and must be completed before 4:00 p.m. unless prior arrangements have been
made. A minimum of 48 hours notice is required to schedule inspection services.
      (31)   All connections must be approved by the town prior to backfilling.
Anyone covering a connection in advance of approval will be required to uncover
said pipe in a manner to allow proper inspection.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 6-13-2011; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019; Am. Ord.
2024-5, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 53.209 ILLICIT CONNECTIONS TO THE SEWER.
   (A)   No property owner, occupant, user or person shall discharge, or cause
to be discharged, any storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water, or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewer. Illicit connections include, but are not
limited to, sump pumps, foundation drains, French drains, yard drains, gutter
downspouts, cistern overflow pipes, and any other storm water drainage
receptacle(s).
   (B)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers that have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made unless there is
capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and
the POTW, including, but not limited to, capacity for CBOD5 and TSS.
   (C)   Storm water and other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
public storm water facilities. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged to public storm water facilities upon approval of the
town.
   (D)   Any existing or new construction in which a sump pump has been or will
be installed, shall be required to install a rigid pip connection discharge in
accordance with this section. It shall be unlawful to maintain any connection
with the sewerage system carrying roof water, ground water, surface water or
any other natural precipitation after the effective date of this chapter.
   (E)   Sump pump and rigid pipe: method of installation.
      (1)   The building shall have a drain tile placed around the inside or
outside perimeter of the foundation connected to a sump pit. All baseboard
seepage collection systems shall be discharged to the sump pit. The sump pit
shall be located at least ten feet away from the insist sanitary floor drain.
      (2)   The sump pump discharge pipe shall be connected to a storm sewer,
when available and abutting on the property, unless otherwise approved by the
town. Connections to the storm sewer system
shall have an approved backflow prevention device installed. The sump pump
discharge pipe shall not be connected to underdrains, subsurface drainage
tiles, building floor drains, downspout outlets, or other sump pump lines.
      (3)   When an existing sump pump discharges to the ground or when a storm
sewer is not available, the sump pump shall discharge to grade and must meet
all the following provisions, unless otherwise approved by the town:
         (a)   The discharge pipe shall be installed to the outside wall of the
building with rigid pipe (plastic, copper, galvanized or black pipe) with a
minimum inside diameter of one inch.
         (b)   The discharge pipe must have a check valve within one foot of
the floor grade, and a union or other approved coupling for easy disconnection
for repair or replacement.
         (c)   The discharge pipe shall exit the building at one foot above
finished grade.
         (d)   The point of discharge must be a minimum of three feet from the
foundation wall and five feet from the property line.
         (e)   The discharge must flow parallel to or away from the nearest
property line.
         (f)   The discharge water shall not discharge to a public way,
including sidewalks, streets or alleys. The discharge pipe shall terminate no
less than ten feet from such impervious surfaces.
         (g)   The discharge water shall not create an icy condition on any
pedestrian walkways within or adjacent to the subject premises lot lines.
   (F)   Removal of illicit connection required.
      (1)   Any property owner who previously made any connection or
installation in violation of this chapter shall immediately remove such
connection or correct such an installation. All direct or indirect connections
of a system, as defined above, intended to collect and convey unpolluted storm
water or groundwater along, adjacent to, beside or under the foundation or
basement of any building connected to the town sewerage system shall be
disconnected from the sewerage system.
      (2)   DISCONNECTION shall mean removal of any direct or indirect illicit
connection to the sewerage system, including direct connections to the sanitary
sewer service line, connections to a sanitary sewer floor drain or similar
plumbing fixture that would allow unpolluted storm water or groundwater flow to
enter the sewerage system. Any disconnections or openings in the sanitary sewer
shall be closed or repaired in a workmanlike manner with proper materials,
unless the connection to the sanitary sewer is used for the proper discharge of
wastewater.
   (G)   Noncompliance fee for illicit connection.
      (1)   Every person owning property shall allow an employee of the town, a
designated representative of the town, or a licensed plumber, acting on the
town’s behalf with the consent of the owner, to inspect the building to
determine if sump pumps or other prohibited discharges are connected to the
sewerage system. If the town inspects, the property owner will be charged an
illicit connection initial inspection fee,
      (2)   Any property found to have an illicit connection, either direct or
indirect, to the sewerage system shall receive a written notice from the town
that will require the property owner to make the necessary repairs and furnish
proof of the repairs to the town within 45 days. The fee will be included on
the utility bill within 45 days of written notification of the illicit
connection.
      (3)   Upon confirmation of the elimination of the illicit connection
within 45 days of the written notice, the illicit connection continuous
noncompliance fee will be removed from the property’s sewer bill within 30
days. Additional enforcement and penalties may be incorporated in accordance
with §§
53.900 through
53.999.
      (4)   If the illicit connection is not corrected or a property owner
refuses a property inspection within 45 days of the written notice, the
property owner will be subject to an illicit connection continuous
noncompliance fee. The fee covers the cost for treating the extraneous flow or
potential extraneous flow contributed to the sewerage system. The fee will be
in addition to all other sanitary sewer user charges and will be added to the
property owner’s utility bill until the property is compliant with this
section. The fee will be included on the utility bill within 45 days of written
notification of the illicit connection.
      (5)   Fees are listed on the town’s utilities fee schedule that may be
revised from time to time by the Town Council.
   (H)   Re-inspections.
      (1)   Property owners are financially responsible for re-inspection of
illicit connections, sump pomps or other groundwater conveyance systems by the
town, by a licensed plumber to confirm the disconnection of the illicit
connection, sump pump or other groundwater conveyances from the sewerage
system.
      (2)   The inspection and certification of the disconnection shall be
documented and submitted to the town by the property owner within 30 days of
the inspection.
      (3)   If re-inspection by the town, an illicit connection re-inspection
fee will be charged to determine the illicit connection has been corrected.
This re-inspection fee will be waived if the illicit connection has been
corrected, or the property owner can prove that illicit connection has been
scheduled to be corrected, in 30 days or less.
      (4)   If upon re-inspection it is determined the illicit connection has
not been corrected within 45 days, an illicit connection continuous
noncompliance fee will be charged until the property owner notifies the town
the illicit connection has been disconnected. An extension may be granted, if
the property owner can prove due diligence to correct the illicit connection.
      (5)   An illicit connection re-inspection fee will be charged to a repeat
offender. An illicit connection continuous noncompliance fee for repeat
offenders will be charged until the property owner notifies the town the
illicit connection has been disconnected.
      (6)   The town may periodically re-inspect any building or premises to
determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (7)   Fees are listed on the town’s utilities fee schedule that may be
revised from time to time by the Town Council.
   (I)   The town shall have the power and duty of hearing and deciding
requests for waivers from the applicability of the provisions of this section,
where strict enforcement would cause undue hardship because of circumstances
unique to the individual property under consideration, or would cause a safety
problem. This would also include cases in which it would not be practical or
feasible to correct the clear water discharge problem. Applications for waivers
pursuant of this chapter shall be addressed in writing to the town. The
application shall, at a minimum, include the illicit connection waiver fee,
identify the property for which the waiver is being applied for, the name of
the property owner/applicant, and describe in detail what characteristics of
the subject property create an undue hardship. Within a reasonable time, the
town shall make its decision on the matter and send a copy of the decision to
the applicant by regular mail. Upon approval of an application for a waiver, a
property owner shall be allowed to discharge directly into the sewerage system
for the time specified in the town’s written decision. Any person granted a
waiver shall be charged a monthly illicit connection waiver fee to cover the
cost for treating the extraneous flow or potential extraneous flow contributed
to the sewerage system. The fee will be in addition to all other sanitary sewer
user charges and will be added to the property owner’s utility bill until the
property is found to be compliant with this section.
   (J)   Enforcement actions and penalties will be implemented for any person
found to be violating any provision chapter in accordance with §§
53.900 through
53.999.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.210 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Department, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients, except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Public Works Department, and shall always be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for inspection and kept clean. Grease and oil interceptors
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of substantial construction,
watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers that, when bolted in
place, shall be gas-tight and watertight, and capable of the maximum flow rate
of the pipe installed therein.
   (C)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall
be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation.
   (D)   The town may inspect the interceptors, separators or traps located on
the property at any time,
   (E)   If the user is not maintaining the equipment, the town may clean the
part of the sewerage system damaged by the owner and the user will be liable
for any expense, including any cleaning, loss or damage to the sewerage system,
in addition to the amount of any fines imposed under state or federal law.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
WASTEWATER ADMISSIBILITY
§ 53.300 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY,
   It shall be unlawful for any person or user:
   (A)   To deposit or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon
public or private property within the town, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the town, any human excrement, herbage or other objectionable
waste;
   (B)   To deposit in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the jurisdiction of the town any wastewater or other polluted waters,
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with provisions
of this chapter and the NPDES permit;
   (C)   To discharge into any sewer or drain connected to the sewerage system,
any oils, greases, fats, acids, chemicals, soot, iron or mineral wastes, ashes
or cinders, garbage, dead animals, rags, hair or any wastes that may cause
clogging, that may be injurious to the sewers, sewage pumping equipment,
treatment or disposal works, or that interfere with the proper treatment of
domestic sewage, or the operation and maintenance of the sewage disposal works;
   (D)   To connect any floor drain, pit drain or any other drain subject to
receiving oil, grease or gasoline, to the sewerage system or drain connected
thereto, unless equipped with a suitable approved trap that will keep oils and
greases from entering the sewerage system;
   (E)   To discharge into the sewerage system or into any drain connected
thereto, any hot, suffocating, corrosive, inflammable or explosive liquids,
gases, acids, vaporous substances, oils or anything that may be detrimental to
the successful operation of the POTW;
   (F)   (1)   To connect any rain leader, cistern overflow or other storm
water drain to the sanitary sewer system or to any drain connected thereto;
      (2)   All the leaders or conductors now installed shall be removed, and
the connection to the sanitary sewer closed in a permanent and satisfactory
manner;
   (G)   To discharge water used only for cooling or refrigeration purposes
into the sanitary sewer system connected to the POTW in quantities to interfere
with the successful operation of the POTW;
   (H)   To discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural outlet any
wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES permit;
   (I)   To maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment that is
part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-2-1950; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.301 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer or combined sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water,
unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial water, without the specific
permission of the town.
   (B)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling or condensing systems,
or swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available,
or to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not
available, discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the
state. Where a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural sewer is not available,
such unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written
approval by the town.
   (C)   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants, and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with division (B)
above and in accordance with state requirements.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.302 PRIVY, PRIVY VAULTS, CESSPOOLS OR SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or lessee of any lot or parcel of
land within the town to place, deposit or permit to be deposited any human
excrement, garbage or any other organic waste upon the premises in a way or
place that the same is exposed to flies, rodents, small domestic animals or
will endanger water supply.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct and maintain any privy, privy
vaults, cesspool or septic tank intended for, or subject to, receiving human
excrement wherever a public sanitary sewer is located in any street or alley
adjacent to, or within 200 feet of, a lot or parcel of land. Where a sanitary
sewer is located in any street or alley adjacent to, or within 200 feet of, any
lot or parcel of land on which is located any privy, privy vault, cesspool or
septic tank intended for or subject to receiving human excrement, the privy
shall be removed and the privy vault, cesspool or septic tank shall be filled
with earth.
   (C)   (1)   Where a sanitary sewer is not located in any street or alley
adjacent thereto, or within 200 feet of, a lot or parcel of land on which is
located an inhabited dwelling, business house, boarding house, lodging house,
eating place, shop, factory, public hall, place of amusement, or any other
building in the town, a water-flush toilet or a sanitary privy of the type of
construction approved by the State Board of Health shall be provided by the
owner or agency of the premises.
      (2)   Where a water-flush system of excreta disposal is installed or is
in use, which is not connected to the public sewer system, there shall be
installed a private sewage disposal plant consisting of a septic tank and a
system of underground drainage for the disposal of the septic tank effluent.
      (3)   The sanitary privy, water-flush toilet, and private disposal plank
shall be constructed and maintained in an approved manner as described and
illustrated in Bulletin Nos. 8 and 11, or any revisions thereof, of the Bureau
of Sanitary Engineering of the State Board of Health.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-2-1950; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.303 GENERAL PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater that will interfere with the operation or
performance of the sewage works. These general prohibitions apply to all users
of the sewage works, whether the user is subject to national, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements. A person or user may not contribute the
following substances to any sewage works.
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases that, by reason of their nature or
quantity, are or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to cause fire or explosion, or be injurious in any other way to the
sewage works or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive
readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the
system (or at any point in the system), be more than 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to:
gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols,
ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides,
hydrides and sulfides, and any other substance that the town, the state or EPA
has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances that may cause obstruction to the flow in
the sewage works or other interference with the operation of the POTW such as,
but not limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch
in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or
fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime,
stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags,
wipes, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas, tar, asphalt
residues, residues from the refining or processing of fuel or lubrication oil,
mud, glass grinding or polishing wastes, or butchers’ offal.
   (C)   Any pollutant, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
that will cause interference with the POTW.
   (D)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 and more than 10.0, unless
the POTW is specifically designed to accommodate such wastewater, or wastewater
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and/or personnel of the POTW.
   (E)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals;
      (3)   Create a toxic effect on the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard.
   (F)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids that, either singly
or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to create a public nuisance
or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for
maintenance and repair.
   (G)   Any substance that will cause the POTW to violate its limits and
restrictions set forth in the town’s NPDES permit.
   (H)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
   (I)   Any wastewater having a temperature that will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW resulting in interference; but in no case, wastewater with
a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that exceeds 40°C (104°F), or
any liquid or vapor discharged into the sewage works having a temperature
higher than 65°C (150°F).
   (J)   Any unpolluted water, including, but not limited to, non-contact
cooling water.
   (K)   Any waters or wastes containing acid, metallic pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions.
   (L)   Any toxic radioactive isotopes of such half-life or concentration as
exceeds limits established by federal regulations. The radioactive isotopes
1131 and 1132 used in hospitals are not prohibited, if they are properly
diluted before being discharged into the sanitary sewer.
   (M)   Any waters or wastes containing any toxic substances in quantities
that are sufficient to interfere with the biochemical processes of the POTW,
that will pass through the POTW into the receiving stream in amounts exceeding
the standards set by federal, interstate, state or other competent authority
having jurisdiction, or contaminated sewage sludge that contains iron or any
other toxic ions, compounds or substances in concentrations or amounts
exceeding the limits established from time to time by the town that exert an
excessive chlorine requirement on the POTW.
   (N)   Any unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs that, for a duration of five minutes or more, have a concentration or
flow of more than five times the average concentration of the BOD, the
suspended solids or flow of the customer’s sewage discharged during a 24-hour
period of normal operation, and that are released in a single extraordinary
discharge event that causes interference to the POTW.
   (O)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids or dissolved solids
of such character and quantity that unusual provisions, attention, and expense
would be required to handle such materials at the POTW, its pumping stations,
or other facilities.
   (P)   Any substance that may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other product
of the POTW, such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse, or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria guidelines or regulations developed under
Section 405 of the Act, any criteria or guidelines of or pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act,
the Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
   (Q)   Any wastewater that causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.304 SPECIFIC PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.305 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for the adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal,
state or local standards. The town may impose mass limitations on users who are
using dilution to meet the pretreatment standards or requirements of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.306 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste and holding tank waste may be introduced into the
POTW only at locations designated by the Public Works Department. Such waste
shall not violate this chapter or any other requirements established by the
town. The Public Works Department may require septic tank waste haulers to
obtain individual wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The Public Works Department may require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain individual wastewater discharge permits. The Public Works Department may
require generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater
discharge permits. The Public Works Department may also prohibit the disposal
of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject
to all other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Public Works Department. No load may be discharged without
prior consent of the Public Works Department. The Public Works Department may
collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable
standards. The Public Works Department may require the industrial waste hauler
to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.307 RIGHT TO REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to established more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the sewage works.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 53.400 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect discharges
to the sewage works through the issuance of discharge approvals to certain non-
domestic users, and through enforcement of general requirements for other
users; authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities; requires user
reporting; assumes that existing user’s capacity will not be preempted; and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.401 APPLICABLE USERS.
   These requirements are intended to protect the sewage works from discharges,
not necessarily only those from manufacturing industries, that may adversely
affect POTW operations or permit compliance. The users subject to this section
include:
   (A)   An industrial user subject to pretreatment standards and issued a
permit by the state;
   (B)   A user meeting the definition of a significant industrial user, unless
specifically exempted by the Public Works Department;
   (C)   Any user discharging wastewater having the characteristics identified
in this chapter; or
   (D)   Any user deemed by the town that may have an adverse impact on the
sewage works.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.402 CONNECTIONS AND SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Users that discharge wastewaters applicable to this chapter shall be
subject to the review and approval of the town. Where necessary in the opinion
of the town, the owner shall provide pretreatment
facilities necessary to reduce the objectionable characteristics or
constituents to within maximum limits provided in this chapter, and provide
control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to avoid any slug loads or
excessive loads that may be harmful to the POTW.
   (B)   No new connection shall be made unless there is flow capacity
available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the POTW,
including capacity for BOD and TSS.
   (C)   Surcharges shall be imposed by the POTW for any compatible pollutant
discharged in excess of the limits set forth herein.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.403 RIGHT TO REJECT WASTE OR REQUIRE PRETREATMENT.
   The Public Works Department is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of
wastes into the sewage works that, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage works, or to require methods affecting pretreatment of
the wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included in the NPDES
permit issued to the sewage works.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.404 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with
this chapter, and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in this chapter within
the time limitations specified by the EPA, the state or the town, whichever is
more stringent.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the waste from any user is found to interfere with the
successful operation of the sewage works, written notice may be given ordering
the offender to construct a treatment system to give the waste pretreatment
before it is discharged into the sewerage system.
      (2)   The pretreatment shall be sufficient to reduce the strength of
characteristics of the wastes to a degree that it will not interfere with the
successful operation of the sewerage system or the POTW.
      (3)   The notice shall be served upon the owner or lessee of the factory,
mercantile, manufacturing or industrial enterprise by the Public Works
Department.
      (4)   The notice shall set a date or time limit for compliance with the
order.
   (C)   Where determined by the town, before the user discharges wastes into
the sewerage system, the user must modify or eliminate those constituents that
would be harmful to the structures, processes or
operations of the sewage works, or injurious to health. The user shall either
modify the wastes at the point of origin, or shall provide and operate at the
user’s expense a preliminary treatment or processing facility that renders the
wastes acceptable for admission to the sewerage system. Appropriate
pretreatment technology includes control equipment, such as equalization tanks
or facilities, for protection against slugs that might interfere with or
otherwise be incompatible with sewage works. Where there is reason to believe
that the use of equalization tanks or other facilities that have potential for
dilution is resulting in dilution, the town may impose mass limitations on the
user employing such tanks and other facilities.
   (D)   Any equipment necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated and
maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the Public Works Department for
review, and shall be acceptable to the Public Works Department before they are
constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility for modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the Public Works Department
under the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Public Works Department may require
users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that
certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial
waste streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the
sewage works and determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (F)   When requested by the Public Works Department, a user must submit
information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days
of the request. The Public Works Department is authorized to prepare a form for
this purpose, and may periodically require users to update this information.
   (G)   The Public Works Department may require any person discharging into
the sewage works to install and maintain, on their property and at their
expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of
flow. A wastewater discharge approval may be issued solely for flow
equalization.
   (H)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   (I)   If the Public Works Department allows the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Public Works Department, and shall be
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the
Public Works Department, and no construction of those facilities shall be
commenced until approval is granted in writing.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.405 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE APPROVAL
   (A)   Approval process.
      (1)   An industrial user holding a permit from the state shall file with
the Public Works Department a copy of each report or application submitted to
the state on the same day as it is filed with the state. Each industrial user
who applies to the state for a permit shall similarly file a copy of the
application and all supporting documents with the Public Works Department on
the same day as it filed with the state.
      (2)   All industrial users must notify the Public Works Department before
discharging to the sewage works. Information to be provided to the Public Works
Department may be developed as part of a form, but, at a minimum, includes:
construction plans, including all sewage works connections, description of
activities at the facility, wastewater characteristics, a narrative description
of any pretreatment of wastewaters, and detailed plans of any pretreatment
system. The Public Works Department may require additional information or
equipment.
      (3)   The Public Works Department will issue a letter to the user stating
the discharge is approved within 30 days of receiving the submittal. Discharge
approval will include the user following all sections of this chapter, and may
include special conditions for discharging, monitoring and reporting. Obtaining
a wastewater discharge approval does not relieve a permittee of its obligation
to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or requirements, or
with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
      (4)   Discharge approval will be for a period of five years. Industrial
users are required to submit information at least 90 days prior to permit
expiration.
      (5)   Existing connections. Any industrial user required to obtain
wastewater discharge approval, who was discharging wastewater into the sewage
works prior to the effective date of this chapter, and who wishes to continue
such discharges in the future, shall, within 60 days after that date, apply to
the Public Works Department for wastewater discharge approval in accordance
with this chapter, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the sewage works
to continue after 180 days of the effective date of this chapter, except in
accordance with written approval issued by the Public Works Department.
      (6)   New connections. Any industrial user required to obtain wastewater
discharge approval from the Public Works Department, who proposes to begin or
recommence discharging into the sewage works, must obtain such approval prior
to the beginning or recommencing of the discharge. The wastewater discharge
approval process must be completed at least 90 days prior to the date upon
which any discharge will begin or recommence.
   (B)   Discharge approval fees.
      (1)   Discharge approval fees for users is specified in the town’s
utilities fee schedule.
      (2)   As necessary, the Public Works Department may engage outside
consultation to review submittals and plans. The user shall agree to pay the
Public Works Department for the actual costs it incurred in its review of all
submittals, plans and accompanying information.
   (C)   Discharge approval modification. The Public Works Department may
modify an industrial user’s discharge approval for good cause, including, but
not limited to, incorporating new limits or standards, changes to system
operations, or changes to the user’s discharge.
   (D)   Discharge approval revocation. The Public Works Department may modify
an industrial user’s discharge approval for good cause, including, but not
limited to, failures to notify the Public Works Department per this chapter,
misrepresentation of discharge, tampering with equipment, failure to meet
limits, failure to pay fines or sewer charges, or failure to complete requested
or required documentation by the Public Works Department.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.406 NOTIFICATION TO PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   Industrial users that have received discharge approval and other non-
domestic users shall notify the Public Works Department of any of the instances
described herein
   (A)   Changes in facility conditions or discharge.
      (1)   Users must notify the Public Works Department of any planned
changes to the user’s operations or system that might alter the nature, quality
or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
      (2)   The Public Works Department may require the user to submit any
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition.
Planned significant changes include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Expansion or addition of wastewater-generating production lines
or processes;
         (b)   Projected increases of 20% or greater in monthly flow over the
previous year’s highest monthly flow, or annual average flow over the previous
year’s annual average flow; and/or
         (c)   The discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
      (3)   The Public Works Department shall review any proposed new or
increased discharge to ensure it is admissible under this chapter.
      (4)   The town and the Public Works Department retain the right to deny
any new or increased discharge to ensure compliance with this chapter, state
and federal pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (B)   Change in ownership or business.
      (1)   Users with a change in ownership will be recognized as a new
industrial facility and shall comply with the Public Works Department’s
discharge limits in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   Discharge approval for a user shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation, without prior notification to and approval by the Public
Works Department.
      (3)   If a change in a business occurs, the property owner and/or user
shall inform the Public Works Department of the change within 30 days and of
the new type of business currently operating at that location.
   (C)   Potential problems.
      (1)   Users shall notify the Public Works Department immediately of all
discharges that could cause problems or harm to the sewage works. This would
include any of the following: bypass of pretreatment facilities or equipment;
accidental discharges; slug load or slug discharge; batch or other non-
customary discharges that could cause pass through or interference at the POTW,
and/or upsets.
      (2)   The user shall verbally notify the Public Works Department of any
unanticipated flow that exceeds prohibited discharges as described in this
chapter, or other requirements, as soon as the user becomes aware of the bypass
that is in violation.
   (D)   Notification to the Public Works Department.
      (1)   If a user knows in advance of a potential problem, it shall notify
the Public Works Department, if possible, at least ten days before the date of
the event.
      (2)   A user shall verbally notify the Public Works Department of any
unanticipated flow that exceeds prohibited discharges as described in this
chapter, or other requirements, as soon as the user becomes aware of the bypass
that is in violation.
      (3)   Verbal notifications shall include: the date, time, location and
duration of the discharge; the type of waste, including concentration and
volume; any corrective actions taken by the user.
      (4)   If requested by the Public Works Department, the user shall also
provide a written notification within five days of the event. The written
submission shall contain: a description of the
bypass and its cause; the volume and duration of the bypass, including exact
times and dates, and if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time
it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the event.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.407 REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   Industrial users shall be subject to a periodic facility inspection
and discharge monitoring as often as the town deems necessary, and may include
the use of suitable continuously-monitoring instruments in appropriate cases.
Samples shall be collected by the town, either manually or by approved
mechanical devices, and in such a manner as to be representative of the overall
composition of the wastewaters. Every care shall be exercised in collecting the
samples to ensure their preservation until analyzed in a state comparable to
that at the time the samples were collected.
   (B)   Laboratory procedures used in the examination of industrial
wastewaters shall be those set forth in Standard Methods. However, alternative
methods for certain analyses of industrial wastewaters may be used, subject to
agreement between the town and industrial user. The town may periodically
analyze the industrial user’s wastewater for parameters deemed necessary by the
town. All laboratory costs shall be charged to the industrial user according to
the standard work order billing practices. All such analyses shall be binding
and conclusive in determining strength of wastewater surcharges and other
matters that are dependent upon the character and concentration of wastes.
Analytical results provided by an industrial user will not be used for
surcharges, compliance, or to determine compliance with this chapter; only
wastewater sampled and analyzed through the town will be used.
   (C)   Significant industrial users will provide the town with copies of the
state-required monitoring reports. If required by the town, industrial users
shall submit to the town a periodic summary report of the character of the
effluent to show discharge concentrations, effectiveness of treatment, and for
comparison against town monitoring records.
   (D)   The town may sample at any point in the sewerage system to determine
an industrial user’s compliance, impact and interference to the sewerage
system.
   (E)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
If onsite treatment operations are utilized, the Public Works Department
reserves the right to require sampling of process wastewater prior to
pretreatment and before discharge to the sewer system. Wastewater monitoring
and flow measurement equipment shall be properly operated, kept clean, and
always maintained in good working order. The failure of a user to keep its
monitoring facility in good working order shall not be grounds for the user to
claim that sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.408 INDUSTRIAL USER CHARGES AND FEES.
   The town may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of approval
and review of users, which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge approval applications, including the
cost of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures, including
the cost of collecting and analyzing a user’s discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included herein)
associated with the enforcement activity taken by the town to address user
noncompliance; and
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the town.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.409 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE; SLUG CONTROL; SOLVENT MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   All users with state-issued permits required to complete and submit a
plan shall submit a copy of the plan(s) to the Public Works Department for
review.
   (B)   The Public Works Department shall evaluate whether industrial users
need a plan or other action to control slug discharges. The Public Works
Department may require industrial users to develop, submit for approval, and
implement such a plan, or to take other action that may be necessary to control
slug discharges.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.410 LIABILITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any waters
or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation at the user’s expense, and shall at all reasonable times be open to
inspection and testing by the Public Works Department.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.500 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
§ 53.501 COLLECTION.
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town’s sanitary system, or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of
the town.
   (B)   The rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and
shall be in an amount determinable as follows:
      (1)   Metered water users. The sewage rates and charges shall be based on
the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises subject to the
rates and charges, as the same is measured by the water meter there in use,
subject to a minimum charge, except as herein otherwise provided. For the
purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage service, the water
meters shall be read monthly (or for a period equaling a month).
      (2)   Unmetered water users. For users of the sewage works that are
unmetered water users or accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly
charge shall be equal to the average of previous billings as determined by the
town.
(Ord. 95-3, passed 2-20-l995; Am. Ord. 1996-3, passed 7-15-1996; Am. Ord. 2004-
6, passed 12-20-2004; Am. Ord. 2006-3, passed 9-25-2006; Am. Ord. 2012-01,
passed 2-6-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.502 QUANTITY DISCHARGED; DUTY TO INSTALL AND MAINTAIN METHODS OF
MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage
system and obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town
shall be determined by the town in the manner as the town shall reasonably
elect, and the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates;
except, as is hereinafter provided in this section.
      (2)   The town may make proper allowances in determining the sewage bill
for quantities of water shown on the records to be consumed, but that are also
show, to the satisfaction of the town, that the quantities do not enter the
sanitary sewerage system.
   (B)   (1)   In the event a lot, parcel or real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town.
      (2)   In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in this
subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town, for
determining the amount of sewage discharge.
   (C)   (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids in the
town’s sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a
user of water from another source that is not measured by a water meter or is
measured by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used
shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town.
      (2)   In order to ascertain the rates or charges, the owner or other
interested parties shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each case,
for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for each
user, and the minimum charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to each
of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or building served
through the single water meter.
   (E)   Multiple billing units. In case of apartment houses, trailer courts or
business houses occupied by more than one business, each apartment, trailer or
business shall be considered a separate billing unit. Where the physical
structure is such that it would be economically prohibitive to meter separately
each billing unit and more than one billing unit is measured by a single meter,
then the amount of the monthly sewer bill for each billing unit shall be
computed with the minimum charge applied to each separate billing unit, or when
the use of water shown by the single meter is in excess of the consumption
allowed for combined units, the total gallons used shall be divided by the
number of separate billing units, and the resulting number of gallons shall be
used to compute the bill for each unit.
   (F)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
(Ord. 95-3, passed 2-20-1995; Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 12-20-2004; Am. Ord.
2006-3, passed 9-25-2006; Am. Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-6-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-10,
passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.503 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   The owner of any lot, parcel of real estate or building connecting to
the sewage works shall, prior to being permitted to make a connection, pay a
connection charge in the amount set by the Town Council from time to time,
   (B)   The Town Council now finds such a tap-in charge to be a reasonable and
equitable pro rata cost of construction of a local or lateral sewer adequate to
serve the property so connected, and the cost of providing a connection to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 95-3, passed 2-20-1995; Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 12-20-2004; Am. Ord.
2006-3, passed 9-25-2006; Am. Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-6-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-10,
passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.504 BILLINGS.
   The rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town in
the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   (1)   Charges for sewage service shall be made each month of the
calendar year.
      (2)   All bills are to be rendered on or before the first day of the
month following the month for which charges are made, and shall be due and
payable by the fifteenth day of the month.
   (B)   (1)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but the billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in
the event payment is not made as herein required.
      (2)   The owners or properties served, which are occupied by a tenant or
tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for
the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by the tenant or
tenants, provided that the examination shall be made at the office at which the
records are kept and during the hours that the office is open for business.
   (C)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates of charges shall thereupon attach thereto.
   (D)   Delinquencies. In the event the charges for sewage service are not
paid within 30 days after the due date of the bill, the customer will be mailed
a letter notifying same of the delinquency and that he or she has 30 days to
pay the billing statement; otherwise his or her respective water service will
be disconnected.
(Ord. 95-3, passed 2-20-1995; Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 12-20-2004; Am. Ord.
2006-3, passed 9-25-2006; Am. Ord. 2008-1, passed 4-7-2008; Am. Ord. 2012-01,
passed 2-6-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.505 TAP-IN FEE.
   There shall be collected from the owner and/or owners of each and every lot
and parcel of real estate, hereafter required to be hooked into the sewer
collection facility within the town, a tap-in fee as set in the town’s
utilities fee schedule. In the event that the town is required perform to an
unusually large amount of work to affect the tap-in, then the owner shall also
pay for the cost of the work. The tap-in fee shall be in addition to, and shall
in no way affect, the monthly sewage bills.
(Ord. 1981-13, passed 10-15-1981; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.506 AVAILABILITY FEE.
   In addition to any other fees or charges paid to the municipal sewage works
to establish a sewage connection, any new user requesting a new connection to
the town’s municipal sewage works shall pay a one-time availability fee, based
upon the meter size of the connection, in accordance with the town’s utilities
fee schedule.
(Ord. 2004-6. passed 12-20-2004; Am. Ord. 2006-3, passed 9-25-2006; Am. Ord.
2012-01, passed 2-6-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.900 AUTHORIZATION OF TOWN TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce the bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewerage system, pumping stations and sewage conveyance system, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage system,
and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of the rates and
charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewage system that, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town,
or to require methods affecting pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the
pretreatment standards included in the NPDES permit issued to the town.
(Ord. 95-3, passed 2-20-1995; Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 12-20-2004; Am. Ord.
2006-3, passed 9-25-2006; Am. Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-26-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-10,
passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.901 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person or user found that has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, shall be served by the town with a written
notice of violation, stating the nature of the violation, a time frame to cease
the violation, and a reasonable time frame to satisfactorily correct the
violation. The offender shall, within the period stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations,
   (B)   Within ten days of receiving the written notice, the user will provide
the town an explanation for the violation, and a plan for its satisfactory
correction and for prevention of its recurrence, including specific required
actions. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for
any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the town to take any
action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without
first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-2-1950; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.902 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in the notice of violation shall be fined in the amount not
exceeding $1,000 for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue, shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the town to reconsider the fine, along with full payment of the fine amount,
within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit, the
town may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user’s appeal is
successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be
returned to the user. The costs of preparing administrative enforcement
actions, such as notices and orders, may be added to the fine.
   (C)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.903 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The town may enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance,
or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible
for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to be taken by
the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Violations resulting in significant noncompliance by a user will be
addressed with an administrative order. Such documents shall have the same
force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to this chapter
and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.904 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The town may order a user that has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before
the town and show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. Notice shall be served on the user, specifying the time and place for
the meeting, and why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The
notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail (return receipt requested) at least 21 days prior to the hearing. Such a
notice maybe served on any authorized representative of the user. A show cause
hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.905 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the town finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the town may
issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge, directing that the
user come into compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come
into compliance within the time provided, sewer service may be disconnected
unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances
are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other
requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring
and management practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants
discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for
compliance established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a
compliance order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any
continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.906 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the town finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the
user’s past violations are likely to recur, the town may issue an order to the
user directing same to cease and desist all such violations, and directing the
user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.907 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The town may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after a verbal
notice to the user of the violation, whenever it is necessary to stop an actual
or threatened discharge that reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent
or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment.
   (B)   The town may immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after notice and
opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the
sewerage system, or that presents, or may present, an endangerment to the
environment.
   (C)   The town may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user
has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the town that the period of
endangerment has passed.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.908 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The town may revoke a user’s privilege to discharge non-domestic
wastewater into the sewerage system.
   (B)   Termination of service is used when the discharge from a user presents
imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, or the environment;
or threatens to damage the sewerage system or interfere with the town’s
operations; or as an escalating enforcement action to a significant violation
when a noncompliant user fails to respond adequately to previous enforcement
actions.
   (C)   Termination of service may be accomplished by physical severance of
the user’s connection to the collection system, issuance of a cease and desist
order that compels the user to immediately terminate its discharge, revocation
of the user’s discharge permit, or a court ruling.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.909 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage the violation
occasioned the town or downstream users.
   (B)   The user shall be responsible for, but not limited to, paying the
following costs incurred by the town for the user’s failure to comply: cost of
mileage and labor incurred in detecting and correcting the violation;
laboratory analysis costs associated with detecting and correcting the
violation; replacement costs, additional treatment costs caused by the
violation or associated with detecting and correcting the violation; costs of
any additional equipment acquired or expended by the town for detecting or
correcting the violation; repair and/or replacement of any part of the sewerage
system damaged by the violation; any liability, damages, fines or penalties
incurred by the town because of the violation; all expenses of outside
professionals, including, but not limited to, engineers, scientists and/or
legal counsel; and other costs associated with the detection and correction of
the violations.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.910 JUDICIAL ACTION.
   Judicial action will be taken when it is deemed necessary to force the
industrial user to correct the violation and comply with the permit. Judicial
action may consist of civil prosecution; criminal prosecution; or an action for
injunction, at the discretion of the town and its counsel. As an alternative to
judicial action, the town and industrial user may agree to a voluntary zero
discharge of industrial waste by the industrial user pending correction of the
violation.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.911 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The town
may take any, all or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant
user,
   (B)   Enforcement of industrial user violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the town may
take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
town is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any
noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.912 UNPAID CHARGES.
   (A)   If any of the charges herein established shall not be paid, then,
after due and proper notice to the delinquent user has been made and the same
remains unpaid for a period of one month, the same shall become a lien upon the
user’s real estate.
   (B)   A list of the owners who fail to comply with the requirements herein
before set out, together with a description of their real estate on which the
lien is created, and the costs and charges, shall be furnished to the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   It shall be his or her duty to certify the amount due from each owner
to the County Auditor. The amount of charges shall be placed on the tax
duplicate by the County Auditor and collected as taxes are collected.
   (D)   In addition to this method of collection, the town shall have the
further right to place a statement thereof in the hands of the Town Attorney.
It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to institute a civil action in the
name of the town to recover the amount thereof, together with a penalty of 10%
and reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 1981-13, passed 10-15-1981; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.913 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any user or any interested party shall have the right to request in writing
an interpretation or ruling by the town on any matter covered by this chapter,
and shall be entitled to a prompt written reply. In the event that such inquiry
is by a user, and deals with matters of performance or compliance with this
chapter, or deals with a wastewater discharge permit issued pursuant hereto for
which enforcement activity relating to an alleged violation that is the
subject, receipt to of a user’s request shall stay all enforcement proceedings
pending receipt of the aforesaid written reply. Appeal of any final judicial
order entered pursuant to this chapter may be taken in accordance with local
and state law.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
§ 53.914 ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   An adjustment to the sewer portion of a utility bill will only be
granted for those residences that have incurred an emergency repair. The
adjustment request must be accompanied by a receipt showing the purchase of
parts and/or a copy of an invoice from a plumber reflecting the services
provided. The adjustments for emergency repairs will be approved by the Town
Council.
   (B)   Adjustments will not be considered for the watering of lawns or
flowers; pressure washing; pool and sauna fills or the allowance of faucets to
drip to prevent pipes from freezing, etc.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Anyone who violates this chapter shall be fined in an amount not
to exceed $500. In addition, if anyone refuses the entry, the town shall be
allowed injunctive relief allowing the inspections, the costs of which shall be
assessed against the violators.
      (2)   This section shall apply not only to the owners who occupy the
houses, but also to the tenants who occupy the houses.
      (3)   The liability contemplated hereunder shall be joint and several
against the owners and rightful occupants.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-7-1994; Am. Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 54: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
54.01   Permit required; fee
   
54.02   Supervision
   
54.03   Repairs
   
54.04   Street cuts
   
54.05   Resurfacing of entire street
   
54.06   Failure of repairs
   
54.07   Exemption
   
54.08   Street closures
   
54.09   Street permit and fees schedule
   
54.10   Indemnification
§ 54.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to dig into, excavate, or in any way
alter the surface of any sidewalk, street, alley or other public place within
the town limits without having first obtained a written permit from the Clerk-
Treasurer or any administrative agent so designated in writing by the Clerk-
Treasurer. The permit shall be reviewed and approved in writing by Utilities
Superintendent before excavating or alteration can commence. The permit fee
schedule will be set and appear in §
54.09.
(Ord. 2018-8, passed 11-19-2018; Am. Ord. 2024-10, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 54.02 SUPERVISION.
   The operation of excavating, or in any manner changing the surface of, any
sidewalk, street, alley or other public place within the town, and the
refilling and resurfacing of any excavation, shall be done under the
supervision of the Utilities Superintendent or other officer or employee
designated by the Council President of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2018-8, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 54.03 REPAIRS.
   (A)   All excavations in the street shall be repaired according to the type
of the existing surface as follows.
      (1)   Existing asphalt surface.
         (a)   Excavation shall be filled with thoroughly compacted sand to a
depth not less than ten inches below finished grade.
         (b)   Portland cement concrete with a minimum psi of 3,000 shall be
deposited on top of the sand fill to within one inch below finished grade.
         (c)   After Portland cement concrete has cured for a minimum period of
four days, asphaltic primer RC-3 shall be applied at a rate of one-half gallon
per square yard.
         (d)   A one-inch course of hot asphaltic concrete, Indiana State
Highway Department, Type B, shall be applied, thoroughly compacted and rolled.
If the weather is unsuitable for properly applying hot asphaltic concrete for
repairing the surface, a temporary patch may be applied, consisting of asphalt-
coated aggregate (cold patch), provided that, when suitable paving weather
occurs, the temporary patching materials shall be removed and replaced with hot
asphaltic concrete as specified above.
      (2)   Existing concrete surface.
         (a)   Excavation shall be filled with thoroughly compacted sand to a
depth not less than eight inches below finished grade.
         (b)   Portland cement concrete with a minimum psi of 3,000 shall be
placed in the remaining cavity and troweled with a wooded float to finish
grade.
      (3)   Existing aggregate surface.
         (a)   Excavation shall be filled with sand up to a depth of not less
than eight inches below finished grade;
         (b)   The remaining depth shall be filled with crushed stone of the
size required by the Street Commissioner.
      (4)   Existing earth surface. Excavation shall be filled with earth, and
earth mounded above the excavation to a height above finished grade amounting
to 10% of the depth of the excavation. After settling has occurred, earth shall
be added or removed to level the fill with finished grade, and the surface
restored to the same condition as existed before excavation was made.
   (B)   Exploratory drill holes shall be filled in the same manner as trench
or pit excavations, except that when the holes are made in an existing earth
surface, it shall be refilled with sand, except for the upper six inches of
fill material, which shall be earth.
   (C)   Excavation under sidewalks shall be refilled with fully compacted sand
to a level four inches below the finished grade of the sidewalk in pedestrian-
traveled areas, and six inches below the finished
grade of the sidewalk in driveway areas. The sidewalk shall be replaced to the
same width as that removed, and to a depth of four or six inches, respectively,
in pedestrian and driveway areas. Sidewalk material shall be Portland cement
concrete, air-entraining type, with a strength of 3,000 psi, finished with a
wooden float and a steel edging tool, and scored to match adjacent sidewalk
scoring.
(Ord. 2018-8, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 54.04 STREET CUTS.
   All cuts made in the driving area of a street or alley shall be covered with
steel plates and anchored safely to the paved surface until the cut is ready
for traffic. Cold-patch-type asphalt concrete shall be placed all around the
plate to lessen any possible damage to the vehicles crossing the area. No more
than ten calendar days shall elapse between the date the hole is first cut in
the street right-of-way and the date on which the repair is complete and the
patch is paved to finish grade and open to traffic.
(Ord. 2018-8, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 54.05 RESURFACING OF ENTIRE STREET.
   Any utility company, contractor or individual causing a total of five or
more holes, a maximum of 3 feet x 3 feet, or a trench or trenches totaling 30
feet in length, to be made in an average 300 foot-long city block during one
12-month period shall be required to resurface the entire width of the street
or alley for the full city block within the current paving season, with a one-
inch compacted thickness of surface-type, hot asphaltic concrete. The existing
paved surface shall be tack-coated before paving.
(Ord. 2018-8, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 54.06 FAILURE OF REPAIRS.
   (A)   If the place or places where the excavation and repairs are refilled
or replaced under the provisions of this chapter fail within the life of the
street pavement, or before the street is repaved by the town, the permittee
shall, at his or her own expense, within ten days after receipt of written
notice from the Clerk-Treasurer, refill and resurface it.
   (B)   If the permittee fails to refill or resurface after the receipt of ten
days written notice, the town shall make the necessary repairs and render a
statement of charges to the permittee, which shall be due and payable within 30
days after its receipt.
(Ord. 2018-8, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 54.07 EXEMPTION.
   The Street, Water and Wastewater Treatment Departments are exempted from the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-8, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 54.08 STREET CLOSURES.
   (A)   On occasion it is necessary to close certain streets for events
planned by organizations or individuals. The organizations or individuals shall
submit a street closure form request to the Clerk-Treasurer's office for
approval by the Town Council.
   (B)   Organizations or individuals must submit a copy of their certificate
of insurance with the street closure requests. The Council can deny or cancel a
street closure request if the organization or the individual fails to submit a
current certificate of insurance, or for any other reason at the Town Council's
sole discretion.
   (C)   The town will provide containers for event attendees to use as trash
receptacles. A town utility employee will pick up the trash the next day, or as
soon as practicable.
   (D)   The town will assess a fee to the organization or person for the
street closure to offset costs the town will incur picking up and disposing of
the event's trash. The fee will be set and appear in the town's street fee
schedule in § 
54.09. The fees must be paid previous to the event. Cancellation of the street
closure may occur in the event the fee has not been paid previous to the event.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 54.09 STREET PERMITS AND FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Permit and fee schedule.
 
PERMIT                 FEES
Street cut permit      $25
Street closure request $35
 
   (B)   The revenue from the street cut permit and the street closure request
will be receipted into MVH Miscellaneous Revenue.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 54.10 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The entire expense of excavating, or in any manner changing, the
surface of any sidewalk, street, curb, alley or public place within the town
limits shall be borne by the permittee.
   (B)   The street cut permittee and/or the organization or the individual
requesting a street closure shall indemnify the town for any expenses incurred
therefrom, or for any injuries or damages proximately caused to any person or
property by the permittee or the permittee's employee, agent, or assign.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 8-5-2024)
CHAPTER 55: UTILITIES FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
55.01   Utilities fee schedule
§ 55.01 UTILITIES FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Water service.
      (1)   Rates and fees.
Type of Fee Amount
Type of Fee                                                 Amount
Water meter deposit: new water customers                    $100
Turn-on fee (due to non-payment)                            $20
Re-connect fee (due to non-payment)                         $50
Re-connect fee (turn off requested by customer due to       $20
residence being uninhabited for an extended period of time)
Water connection fee (within corporate limits of Liberty)   $250
Fee for 3/4 inch to 1 inch                                  $500
Fee for over 1 inch                                         $ 500 + time and
                                                            materials
Water connection fee (outside corporate limits of Liberty)  $500 + time and
                                                            materials
Hydrant rental fee (residential 5/8 inch meter);            $0.82 plus tax
   Larger hydrants (to be pro-rated based on meter size)
Bad check charge                                            $25
Unmetered water rate                                        $ 7.02 plus tax/
   Usage greater than 1,000 gallons to be pro-rated      1,000 gallons
Unauthorized water meter and/or pit access by user          $ 25/occurrence
Water meter test deposit                                    $ 100 deposit
                                                            $ 250 + damage +
Damage to water meter by user                               cost of water meter
                                                            (if necessary)
Illicit connection initial inspection fee                   $100
Illicit connection continuous non-compliance fee            $500
Illicit connection re-inspection fee                        $100
 
      (2)   System development charge/availability fee (based on water meter
size).
Water Availability Fee
Water Availability Fee
5/8 inch meter   $465
1 inch meter     $1,163
1 1/4 inch meter $1,860
1 1/2 inch meter $2,323
2 inch meter     $3,720
3 inch meter     $6,975
4 inch meter     $11,625
6 inch meter     $23,250
Sewer Availability Fee
5/8 inch meter   $390
1 inch meter     $975
1 1/4 inch meter $1,560
1 1/2 inch meter $2,262
2 inch meter     $3,900
3 inch meter     $8,970
4 inch meter     $15,600
6 inch meter     $33,490
 
      (3)   Refer to §§
52.400 et seq. for rates inside and outside of town.
      (4)   Any customer who taps-in to the water service before approval by
the Town Council will be charged a minimum bill per month. The Public Works
Department will determine how long the illegal tap-in has been in place. The
customer will be responsible for the monthly bills as well as the fines.
   (B)   Sewer service.
      (1)   Fees.
 
Type of Fee                                      Amount
Tap-in fee                                       $500
Illicit connection initial inspection fee        $100
Illicit connection continuous non-compliance fee $500
Illicit connection re-inspection fee             $100
Discharge approval fee (for industrial users)    $100
 
      (2)   Any customer who taps-in to the wastewater service before approval
by the Town Council will be charged a minimum bill per month. The Public Works
Department will determine how long the illegal tap-in has been in place. The
customer will be responsible for the monthly bills as well as the fines.
      (3)   Refer to sewage rates per §§
53.500 et seq. for inside and outside of town.
   (C)   The Town Council may periodically review and update this fee schedule.
(Ord. 2019-9, passed 12-2-2019; Am. Ord. 2024-2, passed 2-5-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND ROLLER BLADES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULE
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULE
      
76.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Commercial and heavy vehicles
   
70.02   Operation of vehicles with gripping or traction devices
§ 70.01 COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a size as specified
below or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any street in the town,
except when the operation is necessary to load or unload property, and further
except as hereinafter designated, other than passage through the town on a
state or federal route.
      (2)   Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a
route within the town shall confine the deviation to the shortest and smallest
use as possible of the town’s streets in order to accomplish the purpose of the
departure.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public streets, highways,
bridges and culverts within the town whose dimensions exceed those specified
below.
      (1)   Width:
         (a)   104 inches for passenger bus-type vehicles operated exclusively
within municipal corporations;
         (b)   132 inches for traction engines; or
         (c)   102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles.
      (2)   Length:
         (a)   48 feet for passenger bus-type vehicles operated exclusively
within municipal corporations;
         (b)   40 feet for all other passenger bus-type vehicles;
         (c)   65 feet in overall length of a tractor and semi-trailer
combination, with or without load;
         (d)   65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled together,
with or without load; or
         (e)   40 feet for all other vehicles.
      (3)   Height: no vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13 feet, six
inches, with or without load.
      (4)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks or other
vehicles or apparatus belonging to any municipal corporation or to the vehicles
or apparatus belonging to any municipal corporation or to the Volunteer Fire
Department of any municipal corporation.
      (5)   This section does not require the state, the municipality, county,
townships or any railroad or other private corporation to provide sufficient
vertical clearance to permit the operation of the vehicle, or make any changes
in or about existing structures now crossing streets, roads and other public
thoroughfares in the town.
   (C)   (1)   All motor trucks, buses, commercial tractors and trailers
passing through the town and not making local delivery or pick-up goods or
persons, or making local service stops, are hereby required to use only the
streets of the town as designated and marked federal, state or truck routes in
the passage of the same through the town.
      (2)   The Town Council is hereby authorized and directed to erect at the
town limits, signs indicating that through trucks are required to use federal,
state or truck routes.
   (D)   (1)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street, highway or
other public place unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent
any of its load from dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping
therefrom, except that sand or other substances may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a
roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
      (2)   No person shall operate any vehicle so as to track or drop litter,
mud, stones, gravel or other similar material on any street, highway or other
public place.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the driver of a vehicle who unlawfully
drops or deposits mud, stones, gravel or other similar material or permits the
load or any portion thereof to be dropped or deposited upon any street, highway
or other public place to immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall be able to park a commercial semi-trailer on
residential property within the municipality unless there is immediate access
from a state route or the property is located on Brownsville Avenue and only if
he or she meets all the conditions that are specified below.
      (2)   A person shall be able to park a motor truck, commercial tractor,
bus or an RV on private residential property for a maximum of 72 consecutive
hours only if he or she meets all the conditions that are specified below.
         (a)   No person shall let the vehicle set with the engine running at
any time.
         (b)   The vehicle shall be parked within the confines of the property.
         (c)   The vehicle shall have a proper base to be parked on, such as
stone, concrete, or asphalt.
         (d)   The vehicle shall not be parked on any private property in a
manner so that the vehicle will protrude out over any sidewalk.
         (e)   The property must be of sufficient size to allow the vehicle to
be driven onto the property and turned around within the property boundaries
         (f)   No vehicle shall be backed onto the property from the street and
no vehicle shall be backed from the property onto the street.
         (g)   Maintenance on the vehicle may only be performed by the owner
and only if such maintenance is conducted inside and enclosed building; washing
and cleaning are excepted.
         (h)   The private property that the vehicle is parked on must be the
operator’s or owner’s of the vehicle, who must be a resident within the town.
         (i)   If private property has been rented or permission has been given
by someone else besides the owner or operator, the vehicle can be parked on
this property, provided the vehicle owner or operator is a resident of this
town.
      (3)   If a vehicle is parked for more than 72 consecutive hours, the
vehicle must be parked inside and enclosed building.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 8-5-1985; Am. Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see
§
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking Regulations, see
Chapter 72
§ 70.02 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH GRIPPING OR TRACTION DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive and operate tractors, trucks and any and all
kinds of vehicles, gas propelled or otherwise upon the streets and alleys of
the town, the wheels of which vehicles contain lugs, cleats, and/or any other
gripping or traction device that will cut, tear, dig-up or in any way destroy
or damage the streets and alleys.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1941; Am. Ord. 2015-5, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
   
71.01   Turning movements; U-turns prohibited
§ 71.01 TURNING MOVEMENTS; U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to make a U-turn at the intersection of Main and Union
Streets and at the intersection of Market and Union Streets in town.
(Ord. passed 7-9-1941) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   Unattended vehicles
Restrictions on Parking
   
72.15   Purpose
   
72.16   Authority of Chief Marshal
   
72.17   Prohibited activity
   
72.18   Trucks
   
72.19   Weather-related parking exceptions
 
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving or in charge of a motor
vehicle to permit it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine,
locking the ignition or removing the key.
   (B)   (1)   If any vehicle is found within the town’s corporate limits so
unattended, with the engine running, or with the ignition unlocked, or with the
key therein, the Town Marshal shall first contact or make every reasonable
effort to contact the owner or person in charge of the vehicle and notify him
or her of the above violation.
      (2)   If the person cannot be found within a reasonable time or if found
and he or she permits the violation to continue, then the Town Marshal shall
have the right to have the vehicle impounded and he or she shall also have the
further right to take any and all reasonable means to correct the violation.
      (3)   The town shall have the right to keep the vehicle impounded until
all charges against the same are paid.
(Ord. 1973-I, passed 3-7-1973) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING
§ 72.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the flow of motor and
vehicular traffic through the streets and alleys of the town and to regulate to
a degree the parking on the streets of the town.
(Ord. 95-4, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 72.16 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF MARSHAL.
   The Chief Marshal of the town shall have the power and authority to
designate special parking and driving and operating rules, regulations and
restrictions, as the same applies to any and all motor vehicles on special
events and occasions and in emergencies, and the same shall be considered as a
regular law, rule and regulation in full force and effect, the same had it been
adopted according to the applicable statutes and laws of the state governing;
the passage of the same provided that the Chief Marshal shall give as much and
as adequate and as sufficient and as effective notice to all concerned as the
Chief can under the circumstances.
(Ord. 95-4, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 72.17 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle in any no parking zone or
any part thereof so designated as the same, whether the zone shall be
designated by painting the curbing yellow, by the placing of no parking signs
(like “No Parking from here to the corner”, “No parking between signs”, and the
other usual, customary and reasonable designations).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle upon all the public
alleys in this town at a speed greater than eight mph.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle upon the streets of
this town at a speed in excess of the posted limit thereof, except where the
limits are not posted, the maximum limit shall be 30 mph.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle in any space or place
other than within and between the designated and customary lines.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to fail to stop at any type of intersection where
there is placed and erected the usual and customary octagonal stop sign.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in a handicapped parking
designated area unless the person doing the same is so qualified.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle upon the streets and
alleys of the town in any manner contrary to the signs posted as herein
provided regardless of what the signs read, including but not limited to and by
way of example the following: “No U-Turn”, “Do Not Enter”, “One Way Only”, with
the arrow pointing in the direction of the “One Way Only”.
(Ord. 95-4, passed 6-19-1995) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 TRUCKS.
   All motor trucks, tractors, trailers, buses, house trailers, semi-trailers,
farm machinery and equipment having a load capacity of in excess of eight tons,
or a length in excess of 24 feet, or a height in excess of seven feet, or a
width in excess of eight feet shall not park or partially park upon any of the
public streets, alleys and highways of the town except temporarily while
actually loading or unloading freight or other materials on or from the
vehicle, except in places so designated by the Town Council.
(Ord. 1978-4, passed 10-4-1978) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 WEATHER-RELATED PARKING EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Declaration of exception. When, in the opinion of the Utilities
Superintendent, Chief Marshal and Town Council President, or their designated
representatives, the actual or predicted accumulation of snow is two inches or
more (which shall include freezing, ice or sleet) may create hazardous or
dangerous roadway conditions for vehicular or pedestrian traffic, the Utilities
Superintendent, Chief Marshal and/or the Town Council President shall have the
authority to declare a weather-related parking exception.
   (B)   Affected streets. The only streets and sections of streets to which
the weather-related parking exception applies are:
      (1)   Union Street, from Main Street to Layman Street;
      (2)   Fairground Street, from Seminary Street to High Street; and
      (3)   Market Street, from Seminary Street to High Street.
   (C)   Notice of exception. Notice of a weather-related parking exception
shall be provided by posting notices on signs located on the affected streets.
Media may also be used to provide notice. Once a weather-related parking
exception is declared, it shall remain in effect until all signs are along the
affected streets are removed or media notice is given.
   (D)   Parking restrictions during a weather-related parking exception. In
the event a weather-related parking exception is declared, all vehicles must be
removed from the designated areas. The areas must be vacated from the time the
exception is declared until it is cancelled.
   (E)   Parking during weather-related parking exception. Parking for those
vehicles affected by the exception will be made available on the east side of
Railroad Street, between Union Street and High Street, for the duration of the
exception.
   (F)   Notice of absence. Persons residing along the affected streets, who
may be away for a sustained period, such as vacation or holiday travel, may
place on file with the town contact information for a local person. In the
event of a weather-related parking exception, the town will endeavor to notify
the contact person that a vehicle must be moved. That notice, however, would
only be a courtesy and not a condition of enforcing this section or removing a
vehicle from the affected streets. The town shall have no obligation to
directly contact anyone prior to enforcing this section. Contact information
must be submitted to the Town Hall, and must clearly identify and provide a
current number for the contact person.
   (G)   Removal and impoundment of vehicles. The Liberty Police Department is
authorized to remove or have removed, at the owner’s expense, any vehicle
parked on any part of an affected street during a weather-related parking
exception.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §§
72.15 through
72.17 shall be guilty of an infraction and fined in an amount of not more than
$250.
      (2)   The offenses of any provision of §§
72.15 through
72.17 shall also carry with them the same points on the offending driver’s
license that the same offenses carry under the State Statutes and regulations
and laws there (however, these may be waived by any court of competent
jurisdiction upon the recommendation of the Town Attorney).
      (3)   The violators of any provision of §§
72.15 through
72.17 shall have the privilege of paying the fine in an amount to the Traffic
Bureau at the office of the Clerk of the Union Circuit Court of Indiana at the
Union County Court House where and when applicable and lawful and appropriate.
(Ord. 95-4, passed 6-19-1995)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND ROLLER BLADES
Section
   
73.01   Effect of regulations
   
73.02   Traffic laws apply
   
73.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.04   Riding positions on bicycles
   
73.05   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.06   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.07   Speed
   
73.08   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
73.09   Carrying articles on bicycles
   
73.10   Parking
   
73.11   Bicycle equipment
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is a violation for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles, skateboards, scooters,
roller skates and roller blades shall apply whenever a bicycle, skateboard,
roller skates, roller blades or a scooter are operated on any highway or on any
path set aside for the exclusive use of this equipment subject to those
exceptions stated herein.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle, skateboard, scooter, roller skates or roller
blades or a scooter on a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall
be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the
laws of this state declaring sections of the road applicable to vehicles or by
the traffic ordinances of this city applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those
provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle, skateboard, scooter, roller skates, or
roller blades shall obey the instructions of official traffic-control signals,
signs, and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise
directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle, skateboard, scooter,
roller skates, or roller blades shall disobey the direction of such sign,
except where the person dismounts from the bicycle, skateboard, roller skates,
or roller blades to make the turn. In this event, the person shall then obey
the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 RIDING POSITIONS ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle, skateboard, scooter, roller skates,
or roller blades on a roadway shall ride as near to the right side of the
roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or
one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, skateboards, scooters, roller skates, or
roller blades on a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle, skateboard, scooter, roller skates, or
roller blades on a sidewalk within the central business district which would
include Union Street from the railroad tracks to Fairground Street, Main Street
from High Street to Seminary Street and Market Street from High Street to
Seminary Street.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle, skateboard, scooter, roller
skates, or roller blades on a sidewalk other than the central business
district, the person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing a pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall ride a moped on a sidewalk at any time.
   (D)   No person shall ride a bicycle, skateboard, scooter, roller skates or
roller blades on sidewalks, streets or parking lots in the central business
district when a downtown event is in progress when the city streets are
blockaded.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate a bicycle, skateboard, scooter, roller skates or
roller blades at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle, skateboard, scooter, roller skates or roller
blades emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall, on approaching a
sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right-
of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area, and on
entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 CARRYING ARTICLES ON BICYCLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handlebars.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle or skateboard on a street other than on the
roadway against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford the
least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 BICYCLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at night shall be equipped with a front lamp
which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall be visible
from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front
of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red
light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition
to the red reflector.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a working brake which will enable
the operator to make sudden, safe stops.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law or by this
chapter, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter
may be punished by a fine of not more than $25 for each offense or violation as
adjudged, which fine as assessed, to said amount, shall be recovered of said
person by the town, paid within five days of the violation(s). If a penalty is
not paid within set time limits, violations will be filed in court. See Penalty
§ 10.99
   (B)   Minors found to be in violation will be given a warning and contact
will be made with the parents/guardians. In the event the minor exhibits the
same violation, the parents/guardians will be accessed the fine.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-18-2024)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULE
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   One-way streets and alleys
   
III.   Alleys; in general
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The town speed limits shall be as is designated below and with the
following restrictions:
 
Street          Location        Special      Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
                                Provisions
                Only on the
                section of
                State Road 44
                and U.S.
                Highway 27 in
                the immediate
                vicinity of the
                Union County
                School
                Corporation
                that is the
                intersection of
                State Road 44
                lying between
                the
                intersection of
                Eaton Street
                with College
                Corner Avenue
                and the
                Corporation
                Line of the     Only when
State Road 44   town, which     school is in 20 mph      1987-2   5-18-1987
                lies just east  session
                of the present
                school
                buildings of
                the Union
                County School
                Corporation,
                and that part
                of the U.S.
                Highway 27
                lying between
                the
                intersection of
                College Corner
                Avenue with
                Seminary
                Street, and
                where College
                Corner Avenue
                crosses South
                and Willow
                Streets
                Only on the
                section of
                State Road 44
                and U.S.
                Highway 27 in
                the immediate
                vicinity of the
                Union County
                School
                Corporation
                that is the
                intersection of
                State Road 44
                lying between
                the
                intersection of
                Eaton Street
                with College
                Corner Avenue
                and the
                Corporation
                Line of the     Only when
U.S. Highway 27 town, which     school is in 20 mph      1987-2   5-18-1987
                lies just east  session
                of the present
                school
                buildings of
                the Union
                County School
                Corporation,
                and that part
                of the U.S.
                Highway 27
                lying between
                the
                intersection of
                College Corner
                Avenue with
                Seminary
                Street, and
                where College
                Corner Avenue
                crosses South
                and Willow
                Streets
Union Street    East of Market  -            20 mph      1974-I   1-16-1974
                Street
 
   (B)   The town will implement a 20 mph speed limit on all town streets other
than those that are exempted.
(Am. Ord. 2017-6, passed 5-15-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The following streets and alleys in the town are hereby designated as
one-way streets and alleys so that vehicular traffic shall pass upon and along
the streets and alleys in one direction only, which direction is hereinafter
specified as follows:
 
Street/  Location                                                                        Direction
Alley
East
Railroad
Street
(the
street
between
the                                                                                      From
Union    Between Union and High Streets                                                  south to
County                                                                                   north
National                                                                                 only
Bank of
Liberty
and the
old
railroad
depot)
The
alley                                                                                    From
between  Along the east side of lots numbered three, four, 11, and 12 in J.H. Wilson’s south to
Campbell Addition and Second Addition                                                    north
and                                                                                      only
Sycamore
Streets
The
alley
between  Along the east side of lots numbered one and six in the immediately             From
Westcott aforementioned additions                                                        north to
and                                                                                      south
Sycamore
Streets
The
alley                                                                                    From
between  Along the east side of the U.S. Post Office                                     south to
Union                                                                                    north
and High
Streets
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to operate any type of vehicle upon
and along the streets and alleys in any direction other than what is specified
above.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 2-5-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. ALLEYS; IN GENERAL.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle through the alley described below
except as designated:
 
Description             Location                   Driving Restrictions
                        Adjacent to lots numbered
Alley ten feet in width 16 and 17 in the First     In the direction from south
between Indiana State   Industrial Addition to the to north (that is, in the
Highway 44 and Willow   town, the east side of     direction from Willow Street
Street                  which coincides with the   to State Highway 44 only)
                        west sides of the
                        aforementioned two lots
 
(Ord. 1994-3, passed 10-3-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULE
Schedule
   
I.   Parking limitations
   
II.   Off-street parking and loading
SCHEDULE I. PARKING LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any automobile, truck or
motor vehicle of any kind, character or description as designated below:
Street Side Location
Street                  Side         Location
Brownsville Avenue      South        From the railroad tracks to West Street
Fairground Street       West         From South Street to North Corporation
                                     Limit
Fosdick Street          West         -
High Street             South        From Fairground to Spring Street
High Street             North        From Fairground Street to Main Street
Market Street           West         From Seminary Street to South Street
Market Street           East         From Union Street to High Street
Railroad Street         West         From High Street to Union Street
Seminary Street         South        From Main Street to Railroad Street
Seminary Street         South        From College Corner Avenue to Layman
                                     Street
South Street            Entire south -
South Fairground Street East         From South Street to Pheasant Run Drive
Spring Street           East         From Union Street to High Street
Sycamore Street         North        From Main Street to Spring Street
Union Street            North        From Fairground Street East on Union
                                     Street 100 feet
Vine Street             South        From Main Street to Flint Street
 
   (B)   When any of the above violations occur, the town’s police officers
shall attach to the vehicle a notice to the operator thereof that the vehicle
had been parked in violation of a provision of this schedule and instructing
the operator to report to the Town’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office in regards to the
violation.
(Ord. 1989-4, passed 6-5-1989; Am. Ord. 2024-6, passed 5-6-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   The loading or unloading of commercial trucks of any kind and character and
of every size and description is prohibited as designated below.
 
Street       Location                Side            Time
Union Street Between Main Street and North           Between the hours of 7:00
             Fairground Street                       a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
Union Street Between Main Street and North and south -
             Fairground Street
Union Street Between Market Street   South           Between the hours of 7:00
             and Fairground Street                   a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
 
(Ord. passed 7-1-1941) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 76: GOLF CARTS
Section:
   
76.01   Purpose
   
76.02   Definitions
   
76.03   Rules and regulations
   
76.04   Inspection; fees
   
76.98   Enforcement
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to establish a golf c art ordinance
within the Town of Liberty to promote the health, safety and welfare of persons
operating cart(s) within the Town of Liberty.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 76.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license issued to operate a motor vehicle issued
by Indiana or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by Indiana law for motor vehicles operated on
public highway in the State of Indiana.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course or for sporting or recreational purpose. This includes Gators or other
makes of utility side by side vehicles not to exceed 25 m.p.h. ATVs are not
permitted.
   OPERATOR. Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid driver’s
license may operate a golf cart.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 76.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Carts may be driven on streets only if equipped with two operating
headlights (one on each side of the front of the golf cart), two operating tail
lights with brake lights (one on each side of the rear of the cart), and turn
signals (one on each side of the cart, front and rear) which are visible from a
distance of 500 feet. Carts will also be required to have a factory specified
muffler and adhere to the current town noise ordinance.
   (B)   Carts must be equipped with a windshield, rear vision mirror, and
either a slow moving vehicle sign or a flashing red or amber light to the rear.
   (C)   Cart drivers must have on their person a valid driver license in their
name.
   (D)   Cart drivers will stay to the far right of the traveled portion of the
street and yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles.
   (E)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number
of persons for whom individual seating is installed and provided on the golf
cart. The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and no
part of the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside the perimeter
of the golf cart while the golf cart is in motion.
   (F)   All applicable state laws shall be adhered to, including the
possession and use of alcoholic beverages.
   (G)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the State of Indiana and the Town of Liberty which
governs the operation of motor vehicles with the exception of seatbelts. Lap
type seatbelts are required for all occupants. No person under the age of two
is permitted to be on the cart while operated on the town streets.
   (H)   Carts will adhere to all traffic flow patterns, and will operate on
the right side of the roadway.
   (I)   Carts shall not be operated on sidewalks or on any public grass areas.
   (J)   Carts shall not be operated on private property, without the
permission and consent of the property owner.
   (K)   Motorized carts may not operate on streets or highways under the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Department of Transportation. Motorized carts may
cross these streets or highways to access other streets at intersections only.
Crossing must be at a right angle. The specific streets and highways referenced
include West Union Street and Eaton Street or State Road 44, South Main Street
or US Highway 101, North Main Street and East Seminary Street or US Highway 27.
   (L)   Operators of carts are required to remove a wrecked or damaged golf
cart and any and all glass or other foreign material dropped onto a roadway in
the event of an accident.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 76.04 INSPECTION; FEES.
   The inspection by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, will cover
the following safety requirements and every cart operating on Town of Liberty
streets must have the following safety equipment:
   (A)   Permits/stickers issued to operators/owners of golf carts by the
Liberty Police Department.
   (B)   Each owner must have proof of ownership, and liability insurance, and
a completed hold harmless agreement, releasing the Town of Liberty, its
employees and affiliates, from all liability that may arise as a result of
operating a cart inside the Town of Liberty. A current hold harmless agreement
must be on file with the Liberty Police Department, and must be renewed
annually.
   (C)   All carts must meet the requirements or minimum standards of safety
equipment as set forth in §
96.03.
   (D)   All cart operators must present a valid driver’s license.
   (E)   Permits/stickers will be issued annually, and are valid from January 1
of each year. The following fees shall apply:
      (1)   Registration and inspection by Liberty Police Department: $30
annually (includes permit/sticker).
      (2)   Re-inspection by Police Department: $150 (if a cart fails the
initial inspection).
   (F)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner. A
police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/sticker.
The Chief of Police will have the discretion in determining whether a permit/
sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of a
previous application, or the receipt of a permit/sticker, the Chief of Police
may direct the applicant to reapply, and also resubmit any and all fees
necessary, before a replacement permit/sticker is issued.
   (G)   Any person who operates a cart in the Town of Liberty and fails to
receive and properly display a Town of Liberty permit/sticker on the driver-
side rear of the cart will be subject to all applicable state laws, in addition
to being in violation of this chapter.
   (H)   Cart owners must complete the Registration Form attached to Ordinance
No. 2010-3, the hold harmless agreement form, and provide a copy of the proof
of liability insurance prior to the cart being inspected. The completed forms
and proof of insurance will be maintained by the Liberty Police Department.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 76.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Liberty Police Department to issue a uniform
citation against any person the officer has probable cause to believe has
violated this chapter, whether the offending person is a juvenile or any other
person.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   Any person(s) violating any part of this chapter shall be punished by a fine
for the first offense of not less than $50. For the second offense within one
year of first offense, the minimum fine shall be not less than $75. If a third
offense is committed within one year of the second offense, the minimum fine
shall be not less than $100 and the owner’s golf cart permit registration is
suspended for one year to the date of the third offense.
(Ord. 2010-3, passed 9-20-2010)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   TREES
      
96.   NOISE CONTROL
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Dogs running at large prohibited
   
90.02   Keeping certain animals prohibited
   
90.03   Animal wastes
Dangerous Animals
   
90.15   Purpose
   
90.16   Intent
   
90.17   General rules
   
90.18   Definition
   
90.19   People unfit to own or keep animals
   
90.20   Determination by authorized person
   
90.21   Precautions required
   
90.22   Procedure for seizure and transfer or destruction
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this section, no person shall
permit or allow any dog to run at large or loose, to run unattended, to roam or
run free without being on a leash under the control of its owner or its owner’s
agent, within any parts of the town.
   (B)   (1)   Any dog found running at large or loose, running unattended,
roaming or running free without being on a leash under the control of its owner
or its owner’s agent, shall hereby be declared to be a public nuisance and it
shall be the duty of every police officer within the town to cause the dogs to
be captured and placed into the County Dog Pound.
      (2)   In case the owner of the dog is known, the Marshal shall give
notice of the impounding to the owner.
      (3)   The dogs may be reclaimed by the owner upon payment of the fees as
required by law.
      (4)   (a)   In case the owner is unknown, the officer shall post notice
at the Town Hall, that if the dog is not claimed within 20 days of the posting
of the notice, it may be disposed of.
         (b)   In the event that the dogs impounded are not reclaimed within 20
days, they shall be sold or destroyed as the impounding officer or County Dog
Warden may prescribe.
   (C)   The owner shall not allow his or her dog to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person within the town by barking, howling or making noise of any
kind for an unreasonable length of time.
(Ord. 1979-2, passed 3-21-1979; Am. Ord. 1993-3, passed 6-21-1993) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.02 KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON. Any human being, firm, partnership, corporation or other legally
recognizable entity.
      PROHIBITED ANIMAL. Farm animals like, but not limited to, cows, pigs,
sheep, goats, horses, chickens, and guineas, and provided further that the term
shall include any animals kept solely or partially for commercial purposes.
   (B)   (1)   From and after the effective dates of the section, no person
shall keep or maintain any prohibited animal on any premises or real estate
occupied, controlled or possessed by the person within the town.
      (2)   From and after the effective dates of this section, no person shall
keep or maintain any prohibited animal on any public premises or public real
estate or an any premises or real estate owned, possessed or controlled by any
other person within the town.
      (3)   From and after the effective date of this section, no person shall
knowingly permit any prohibited animal to be kept, maintained or remain on any
premises or real estate owned, controlled or possessed by the person within the
town.
   (C)   In the event that the violation of any part of this section is found
to exist, the Town Marshal or any deputy marshal shall have the right to
impound any offending animal and dispose of it in any humane manner, provided
any reasonable steps are taken to notify the offending person and no remedial
action is taken thereby.
(Ord. 1983-4, passed 8-15-1983) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ANIMAL WASTES.
   Any owner or his or her agent taking the owner’s dog or cat outside of the
owner’s real property limits must immediately remove any excrement deposited by
the animal on any public or private property, except in the case of a guide dog
for a blind person or service dog for a deaf or physically disabled person.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 4-6-1998) Penalty, see §
90.99
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 90.15 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the following rules is to ensure that the residents of
the town may freely enjoy the public areas of the town without fear of injury
inflicted by an animal that is not properly controlled by the animal’s owner or
keeper.
   (B)   (1)   It must be understood that regardless of any law, the owner or
keeper of an animal is always considered to be in control of and responsible
for the actions of the animal.
      (2)   The omission of a statement pertaining to any particular injury or
damage in the following rules must not be construed as a waiver of an animal
owner or keeper’s civil responsibility to never engage in an action with
foreseeable harmful consequences to another person.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 7-16-2001)
§ 90.16 INTENT.
   (A)   (1)   Copies of this subchapter will be given to the Center Township
Assessor with the request that they be given to any person registering an
animal for taxation purposes.
      (2)   The intent is to educate animal owners that these rules are a
condition of keeping any animal in the town.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer with jurisdiction in the town may seize
and confine any animal found unleashed and off of the owner’s or keeper’s
property provided the officer believes the animal poses an immediate threat to
public safety.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 7-16-2001)
§ 90.17 GENERAL RULES.
   Following the confinement, the following rules must be applied within three
days to determine the ultimate disposition of the animal.
   (A)   An animal may be declared dangerous under the circumstances listed in
§
90.18.
   (B)   A person may be declared unfit to own or keep an animal under the
circumstances listed in §
90.19.
   (C)   Only certain people have the power to declare an animal dangerous, or
a person unfit to keep or own an animal. They are listed in §
90.20.
   (D)   When an animal is declared dangerous, the owner or keeper must take
the precautions listed in §
90.21 to protect the public from the animal.
   (E)   If the animal is involved in any of the situations listed in §
90.18 after the owner has been advised that the animal has been declared
dangerous, the animal will be seized and either humanely killed or transferred
to a person who is deemed fit to own or keep the animal. The procedure for this
is described in §
90.22.
   (F)   When a person is declared unfit to own or harbor an animal, any animal
under that person’s control will be seized and either humanely killed or
transferred to a person who is deemed fit to own or keep the animal. The
procedure for this is described in §
90.22.
   (G)   Penalties will be imposed when any incident occurs which causes an
animal to be declared dangerous. These penalties are listed in §
90.99.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 7-16-2001)
§ 90.18 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   An animal may be declared dangerous by any of the people listed in
§
90.20 if:
         (a)   1.   The animal when unprovoked, in an aggressive mariner,
inflicts severe injury on a person.
            2.   Severe injury means any injury that results in muscle tears or
disfiguring lacerations, requires sutures or corrective surgery, or endangers
the life of the victim in any fashion.
         (b)   The animal when unprovoked kills another domestic animal when
off the property of the owner or keeper.
         (c)   The animal when unprovoked, on two separate occasions within the
prior 36-month period, engages in any behavior that requires a defensive action
by any person to prevent bodily injury when the person and animal are on the
property of the owner or keeper of the animal.
         (d)   The animal, when unprovoked, on two separate occasions within
the prior 36-month period, has caused severe injury to another domestic animal
off the property of the owner or keeper of the animal.
      (2)   (a)   An animal may not be declared dangerous because of any
threat, injury, or damage sustained by a person who, at the time, was
committing an offense upon the property of the owner or keeper of the animal,
or was teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal, or has in the
past been observed or reported to have teased, tormented, abused or assaulted
the animal.
         (b)   If the allegation is made that the injured person teased,
tormented, abused or assaulted the animal, corroboration of this information
must be obtained from at least one witness.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 7-16-2001)
§ 90.19 PEOPLE UNFIT TO OWN OR KEEP ANIMALS.
   A person may be deemed unfit to own or harbor an animal if:
   (A)   The person is observed to torment, abuse or assault an animal.
   (B)   The person engages in animal fighting contests.
   (C)   The person encourages or trains an animal to make unprovoked attacks
on people or other domestic animals.
   (D)   The person fails to follow the prescribed precautions in §
90.21 while harboring a dangerous
animal.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 7-16-2001)
§ 90.20 DETERMINATION BY AUTHORIZED PERSON.
   Persons authorized to determine if an animal is dangerous as described in §
90.18 include the following listed below:
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer of the town;
   (B)   Any judge presiding in the county; or
   (C)   The Health Officer of the county.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 7-16-2001)
§ 90.21 PRECAUTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   When not under the direct control of an adult, the animal must be
contained in an enclosure.
   (B)   Direct control means leashed in a fashion that the animal cannot
threaten people or other
domestic animals.
   (C)   The enclosure must be capable of preventing the animal from escaping
under any foreseeable
circumstances.
   (D)   The enclosure must be capable of preventing entry of young children.
   (E)   Proof of financial responsibility must be provided either via
insurance or liquid assets sufficient to cover a $25,000 injury or damage
claim.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 7-16-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 PROCEDURE FOR SEIZURE AND TRANSFER OR DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any animal seized under the provisions of this subchapter will be
safely and humanely confined while its ultimate disposition is determined.
   (B)   If no person other than the keeper or owner objects, the animal will
be humanely killed under the supervision of the Animal Control Officer.
   (C)   If a person deemed fit to keep the animal by the Animal Control
Officer of the town objects
and requests control of the animal, ownership may be transferred to the person.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 7-16-2001)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
90.01(C) shall be subject to a fine of $10 for the first offense and $25 for
each subsequent offense in a 12 month period.
      (2)   The fine shall be payable to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   Failure to remit the fine within 15 days of the issuance of the
ordinance violation citation shall result in the filing of an enforcement
action in the Circuit Court of Union County.
(Ord. 1993-3, passed 6-21-1993)
   (C)   For each and every violation of §
90.03 there shall be assessed a fine of $25 and court costs.
   (D)   (1)   At the first occurrence of an incident listed in §
90.18, the owner or keeper will be fined a maximum of $200.
      (2)   At the second and any subsequent occurrence of an incident listed
in §
90.18, the owner or keeper will be fined a maximum of $500.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 4-6-1998; Am. Ord. 2001-1, passed 7-16-2001)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
91.01   Adoption
   
91.02   Duties of Fire Department
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Establishment of limits; explosives and blasting agents
   
91.05   Establishment of limits; flammable liquids in outside above-ground
tanks
   
91.06   Establishment of limits; bulk storage of liquified petroleum gases
   
91.07   Modifications
   
91.08   Appeals
   
91.09   New permits required
   
91.10   Open burning
   
91.11   Fireworks
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 ADOPTION.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the Town Council for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire and explosion that certain codes known as this chapter recommended by
the American Insurance Association, being particularly the current edition
thereof, of which chapter not less than two copies have been and are now filed
in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and standards for the
adoption of gas appliances and gas piping as set forth in the current edition
of No. 45, NFPA, also Standards for the Storage and Handling of Liquid
Petroleum Gases, as set forth in the current edition of No. 58, NFPA, also the
Fire Prevention Code of the State of Indiana, and the National Fire Prevention
Code.
   (B)   (1)   If there should be an existing conflict between the applicable
codes, the code found to be more stringent shall apply.
      (2)   These same codes are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if
set out in length herein and from the date on which this chapter shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the
town.
(Ord. 1978-5, passed 11-1-1978)
§ 91.02 DUTIES OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Fire Department of the town and
the Fire Department is to be under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail the members of the Fire
Department as inspectors from time to time as necessary.
   (C)   A report of the Fire Department shall be made annually and transmitted
to the Town Council; it shall contain all proceedings under this chapter, with
the statistics as the Chief of the Fire Department may wish to include therein;
the Chief of the Fire Department shall also recommend any amendments to the
chapter which in his or her judgement shall be desirable.
(Ord. 1978-5, passed 11-1-1978)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION. The Fire Department of the Town of Liberty,
Indiana.
   CORPORATION COUNCIL. Attorney for the Town of Liberty, Indiana.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Liberty, Indiana.
(Ord. 1978-5, passed 11-1-1978)
§ 91.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS; EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS.
   (A)   The limits in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is
prohibited will be established by the Fire Department and a copy of the limits
filed in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town together with copies of
this chapter.
   (B)   The limits established by the Fire Department shall be approved by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 1978-5, passed 11-1-1978) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS; FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVE- GROUND
TANKS.
   (A)   (1)   The limits in which storage of flammable liquids in outside
above-ground tanks is prohibited will be established by the Fire Department and
a copy of the limits filed in the office of the Clerk- Treasurer of the town.
      (2)   The limits established by the Fire Department shall be approved by
the Town Council.
   (B)   (1)   The limits in which new bulk plants for flammable or combustible
liquids are prohibited will be established by the Fire Department and a copy of
the limits filed in the office of the Clerk- Treasurer of the town.
      (2)   The limits established by the Fire Department shall be approved by
the Town Council.
(Ord. 1978-5, passed 11-1-1978) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS; BULK STORAGE OF LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GASES.
   (A)   The limits in which bulk storage of liquified gas is restricted will
be established by the Fire Department and a copy of the limits filed in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
   (B)   The limits established by the Fire Department shall be approved by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 1978-5, passed 11-1-1978) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have the power to modify any of
the provisions of this chapter upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee or his or her duly authorized agent when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the chapter,
provided that the spirit of the chapter shall be observed, public safety
secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The particulars of the modification when granted and allowed and the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department thereon shall be entered upon the
record of the Fire Department and a signed copy shall be given the applicant.
(Ord. 1978-5, passed 11-1-1978)
§ 91.08 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove of any
application or refuse to grant a permit applied for or when it is claimed that
the provisions of the chapter do not apply or that the true intent or meaning
of the chapter have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal from the decision of Fire Department to the Town Council within 30 days
from the date of the decision appealed and may appeal to the court within 30
days from the date of the decision of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1978-5, passed 11-1-1978)
§ 91.09 NEW PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Town Council shall determine and specify, after giving affected
persons opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes, or occupancies,
which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the
chapter.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall post the list in a conspicuous
place in the Fire Department and he or she shall further deliver to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town two copies of the lists to be filed with the copies of
this chapter provided in §
91.01.
(Ord. 1978-5, passed 11-1-1978)
§ 91.10 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Be it ordained by the Town Council President and the Town Council,
that it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to burn any trash of any
kind whatsoever in the open or in any container of any kind or in any
incinerator which is located outside of any building within the corporation
limits of the town.
   (B)   Any exceptions to this section must be approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-18-1996) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 FIREWORKS.
    The use of fireworks within the corporation limits of the town will be
governed by I.C. 22-11-14-6.
(Ord. passed 2-3-1938; Am. Ord. 2012-7, passed 7-23-2012; Am. Ord. 2024-8,
passed 8-5-2024)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99
   (B)   For each and every violation of any of the provisions or divisions of
§
91.10 there shall be assessed a fine of not less than $100 and not more than
$300 and cost upon conviction before any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 3-18-1996)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in sale or rental
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in providing brokerage services
   
92.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation
   
92.09   Exemptions
   
92.10   Administrative enforcement
§ 92.01 POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the Town Council to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 USC 3601 et seq.), as amended,
the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 USC 5301 et
seq.), as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 12-28-1998)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of the person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having an impairment as described in division (a)
above;
         (c)   Being regarded as having an impairment as described in division
(a) above;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as described in section 21 USC 802 (I.C.
22-9.5-2-10(b)); nor does the term DISABILITY include an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. Any act that is unlawful under §§
92.04, 92.05, 92.06, 92.07 or 92.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residency by one or
more families or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Discrimination on the basis of familial status means
discrimination because the person is (1) pregnant; (2) domiciled with an
individual under the age of 18 years of age in regard to whom the person is (a)
the parent or legal custodian or (b) has the written permission of the parent
or legal custodian for domicile with that person; or (3) in the process of
obtaining legal custody of an individual younger than 18 years of age.
   FAMILY. An individual or individuals having familial status as that term is
defined in this section.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases
under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 12-28-1998)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 22-9.5-2-10 was repealed by P.L.99-2007, SEC.224
Statutory reference:
   Similar state laws, see I.C. 22-9.5-2-2 through 22-9.5-2-13
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
92.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
92.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
any one time; provided that in the sale of the single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who was not
the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption shall
apply only to one sale within any 24 month period.
         (b)   The private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor
have owned or reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three single-
family houses at any one time.
         (c)   The sale or rental of any single-family house shall be excepted
from application of this section only if the house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 12-28-1998)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SALE OR RENTAL.
   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and §
92.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make the preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representation regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin; and/or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental of, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with the dwelling because of a disability of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises except that in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
         2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990 and the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
standards for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and usability
for physically disabled people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”) suffices to
satisfy the requirements of subsections (3)(b)3.
      (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to
the property of others.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 12-28-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available a transaction, or in the
terms or conditions of a transaction, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTION. Any of the following:
         (a)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
            1.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
            2.   Secured by residential real estate.
         (b)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real
property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion national origin, sex, disability or familial status.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 12-28-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN PROVIDING BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in a multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’ organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of the access, membership or participation on account of race,
color, religion, or disability, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 12-28-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.03 through
92.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 12-28-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone, whether or not acting under color of law,
by force or threat of force to willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with,
or attempt to injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
the person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division 15(a);
or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so as to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she has been, or in order to discourage the
citizen or any other citizen form lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participated, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services,
organizations, or facilities described in division (A) above, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to participate shall be fined.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 12-28-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions declined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any non-profit institution or organization
operated, supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious
organization, association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or
occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to the
persons, unless membership in the religion is restricted on account of race,
color or national origin.
      (2)   Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in
fact open to the public, which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS. Housing:
            1.   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
            2.   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age
or older; or
            3.   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 12-28-1998)
§ 92.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter and
referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in division (B)
hereof shall be vested in the President of the Town Council.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Town Council,
because of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully
administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this
chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the
provisions of this chapter, herein to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission
(“Commission”) for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-
6 and the Town Council President shall refer all the complaints to the
Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section to the Commission
for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided
for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the Town Council shall
administer their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and
urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the Town Council President and the Commission
to further the purposes.
   (D)   The Town Council President or the Town Council President’s designee,
shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or
complainant requesting the information.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 12-28-1998)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01     Purpose
   
93.02     Definitions
   
93.03     Exceptions
   
93.04     Responsibility of owner
   
93.05     Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
93.06     Rental property
   
93.07     Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
93.08     Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
93.09     Towing contracts
   
93.10    Liability for loss or damage
Cross-reference:
   Parking Regulations, see
Chapter 72
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally.
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours.
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way.
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours.
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property.
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
this chapter if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner
or the owner’s agent within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal.
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this division (7),
a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber, cloth, or
textile covering is considered to be visible.
      (7)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, vehicle wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, or a member of the Town
Police Department. (I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER. 
      (1)    Except as otherwise provided in division (2), a person, other than
a lienholder, that:
         (a)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
         (b)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a
vehicle, manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft,
through a lease or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
      (2)   OWNER, for purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set forth
in 33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121)
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC AGENCY. A local agency given the responsibility by statute or
ordinance for the removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
(I.C. 9-22-1-3)
   TOWING SERVICE. A person that engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. For purposes of I.C. 9-22 (except 9-22-6) and I.C. 9-32, a VEHICLE
or watercraft of a type that must be registered under I.C. 9-18-2 (before its
expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1, other than an off-road vehicle or a snowmobile
under I.C. 9-18-2.5 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1-14.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(c))
§ 93.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways.
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment.
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot.
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard.
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34, or a
military vehicle registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8.
   (F)   A golf cart.
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1))
§ 93.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, the person who owns an
abandoned vehicle or parts is:
      (1)   Responsible for the abandonment; and
      (2)   Liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and
disposal; of the vehicle or the parts under this chapter.
   (B)    Except as provided in division (C), the costs for storage of an
abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle with a length of at
least 30 feet may not exceed $2,500.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (E)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, sale disposal, and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds
from the sale of the vehicle shall be returned as described in this chapter or
I.C. 9-22-6, whichever is applicable.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 93.05 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   (1)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a
person other than the person who owns the vehicle, and the person cannot
establish his or her right to the possession of that vehicle, the vehicle shall
be taken to and stored in a suitable place.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
      (2)   The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall be notified within 72
hours of the location and description of the vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-6)
   (B)   If:
      (1)   The person who owns or holds a lien under §
93.05(C) does not appear and pay all costs; or
      (2)   The person who owns a vehicle cannot be determined by a search
conducted under §
93.08(A);
the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed of under this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Subject to division (C)(1)(b), if the properly identified
person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle appears at the site of storage
before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all costs relating to a tow,
the storage of the vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, the vehicle
or parts shall be released.
         (b)   A towing service or storage yard may charge an inspection fee to
an owner, a lienholder, or an insurance company representative to inspect a
vehicle or retrieve items from the vehicle. A fee under this division must be
refunded if the costs relating to a tow, the storage of the vehicle, and all
allowable fees, as applicable, are paid under division (C)(1)(a).
         (c)   A towing service or storage yard must accept payment made by any
of the following means from a person seeking to release a vehicle under this
section:
            1.   Cash;
            2.   Certified check;
            3.   Insurance check;
            4.   Money order.
            A towing service or storage facility may elect to accept payment by
means of a credit card or debit card.
         (d)   Upon receiving payment of all costs relating to a tow, the
storage of a vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, a towing service
or storage yard shall provide to the person making payment an itemized receipt
that includes the information set forth in I.C. 24-14-5, to the extent the
information is known or available.
         (e)   A towing service or storage yard must be open for business and
accessible by telephone during regular office hours. A towing service or
storage yard must provide a telephone number that is available on a 24-hour
basis to receive calls and messages from callers, including calls made outside
of regular office hours. All calls made to a towing service or storage yard
must be returned within 24 hours from the time received. However, if adverse
weather, an act of God, or an emergency situation over which the towing service
or storage yard has no control prevents the towing service or storage yard from
returning calls within 24 hours, the towing service or storage yard shall
return all calls received as quickly as possible.
         (e)   A towing service or storage yard shall, if required, notify the
appropriate public agency of all releases under this section. The notification
must include:
            1.   The name and address of:
               a.   The person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle; and
               b.   The insurance company that insures the vehicle, if the
vehicle was released to a representative of the insurance company;
            2.   The signature of the individual to whom the vehicle was
released;
            3.   A description of the vehicle or parts;
            4.   Costs paid; and
            5.   The date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
      (2)   The release must state the name, signature, and address of the
person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle or
parts, costs, and date of release. A towing service shall notify the
appropriate public agency of all releases under this division (C).
(I.C. 9-22-1-9)
§ 93.06 RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
      (1)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under §
93.07(I) to have the vehicle removed; or
      (2)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying with
divisions (B), (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing
the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name, and address of the person who owns or
controls the private property and a telephone number to contact for
information.
      (2)   That the vehicle is considered abandoned.
      (3)   That the vehicle will be removed after 24 hours.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle.
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (C)   If after 24 hours the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property that the person owns or controls, including
rental property, has not removed the vehicle from the private property, the
person who owns or controls the private property may have the vehicle towed
from the private property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, in an emergency situation a
vehicle may be removed immediately. As used in this division (D), EMERGENCY
SITUATION means that the presence of the abandoned vehicle interferes
physically with the conduct of normal business operations of the person who
owns or controls the private property or poses a threat to the safety or
security of persons or property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (E)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under §
93.05(A) or divisions (C) or (D) of this section shall give notice to the
public agency that the abandoned vehicle is in the possession of the towing
service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 93.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to be
abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information.
   (B)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned.
   (C)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
      (1)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
      (2)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
   (D)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle.
   (E)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within:
      (1)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
      (2)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (F)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under divisions (A) through (E) above is
not removed within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written
abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the
condition, missing parts, and other facts that might substantiate the estimated
market value of the vehicle or parts. Photographs shall be taken to describe
the condition of the vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (G)   (1)   If in the opinion of the officer the market value of an
abandoned vehicle or parts determined in accordance with section division (F)
above is less than:
         (a)   Five hundred dollars; or
         (b)   The amount established by the ordinance established under
division (G)(2) below;
the officer shall immediately dispose of the vehicle to a storage yard. A copy
of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs relating to the abandoned
vehicle shall be forwarded to the Bureau. A towing service may dispose of an
abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. If the town operates a storage yard
under I.C. 36-9-30-3, the town may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an
automobile scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the
abandoned vehicle. The public agency disposing of the vehicle shall retain the
original records and photographs for at least two years.
      (2)   The town may adopt an ordinance that establishes the market value
below which an officer may dispose of a vehicle or parts under division (G)(1)
above. However, the market value established by the ordinance may not be more
than $750.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (H)   (1)   If in the opinion of the officer the market value of the
abandoned vehicle or parts determined in accordance with division (G) above is
at least:
               (a)   Five hundred dollars; or
               (b)   If the town has adopted an ordinance under division (G)(2)
above, the amount established by the ordinance;
the officer, before placing a notice tag on the vehicle or parts, shall make a
reasonable effort to ascertain the person who owns the vehicle or parts or who
may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
      (2)   After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to
be towed to a storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (I)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) of this section.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 93.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Within three business days after removal of a vehicle to a
storage yard or towing service under §
93.06, 93.07 or 93.09, or I.C. 9-22-6, the public agency or towing service
shall conduct a search of the National Motor Vehicle Title Information System
or an equivalent and commonly available data base, to attempt to obtain the
last state of record of the vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name
and address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and address
of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than three business
days after obtaining the name and address, notify the owner of the vehicle and
any lienholder on the vehicle, as indicated by the certificate of title or
discovered by a search under division (A) of the following:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the public agency or
towing service;
         (b)   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is
subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid;
         (c)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
         The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of mailing
or by means of an electronic service approved by the Bureau.
      (3)   Notwithstanding §
93.04, a public agency or towing service that fails to notify the owner of or
lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this section may not collect
additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of the name and
address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with state law.
§ 93.09 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the Police
Department or Town Marshal may employ personnel; acquire equipment, property,
and facilities; and enter into towing contracts for the removal, storage, and
disposition of abandoned vehicles and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 93.10 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases, or occupies property from which an
abandoned vehicle or its contents or parts are removed.
   (B)   A public agency.
   (C)   A towing service.
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard.
   (E)   A storage yard.
   (F)   An agent of a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E).
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
Weeds
   
94.01   Purpose/administration
   
94.02   Incorporation of state law
   
94.03   Authority to make inspections
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   Conditions constituting public nuisance
   
94.06   Notice of violation
   
94.07   Citation for failure to abate nuisance
   
94.08   Abatement of nuisance by town
   
94.09   Institution of enforcement action
   
94.10   Procedure for collection of abatement and administrative costs
Health and Sanitation
   
94.30   In general
   
94.31   Littering
   
94.32   Kitchen garbage receptacles
   
94.33   Sanitary survey
   
94.34   Town Health Officers
   
94.35   Establishment of quarantine
   
94.36   Protective procedures; visitation
   
94.37   Duty of Town Marshal
Cross-reference:
   Garbage, see
Chapter 50
   Town Marshal, see §
30.25
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
WEEDS
§ 94.01 PURPOSE/ADMINISTRATION.
   It is the purpose of the section to protect the public safety, health and
welfare and enhance the environment of the people of the town by making it
unlawful to allow any material growth of weeds,
grass or other rank vegetation to exist and that it is further unlawful to
maintain a public nuisance. This section is to be administered by the Council's
duly authorized representative.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.02 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   This section, in accordance with I.C. 36-7-10.1, incorporates the provisions
of I.C. 36-7-10.1 as they now exist and are hereafter amended. This section
further incorporates the requirements of I.C. 36-1-6-2 as it exists and is
hereafter amended.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.03 AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS.
   All officers and employees of the town shall report the existence of
nuisances to the town's duly authorized representative. For this purpose, the
representative designated by the Council shall have the authority to visit,
enter into or upon any property or premises within the limits of the town in
accordance with the requirements of other applicable law to ascertain and
discover any nuisance and to make examination thereof.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. In addition to what is declared in this section to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
Indiana as a public nuisance. Whenever the word "nuisance" is used in this
section is refers to a public nuisance.
   OWNER. The record owner and any of record contract purchaser of the real
estate, all as shown by the records in the Union County Courthouse.
   RANK VEGETATION. Plant life which grows excessively and unmanageably upon
the land.
   WEED. A plant held to have little or no material public value, which tends
to overgrow or choke out more desirable plants, and is usually growing, or has
the potential to grow, plentifully and detrimentally upon the land.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.05 CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   In addition to what is declared in this section to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
Indiana as a public nuisance may, when found to existing within the town
limits, be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in this town's
code of ordinances, or in accordance with any other provisions of law.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or any other person having a substantial
interest in any improved or unimproved real property within the town, or any
agent thereof, shall permit or allow to remain on or within that property or
upon abutting public ways any materials, trash, garbage, debris or any other
matter which is detrimental to the public health, comfort, safety, or the
aesthetic well-being of the community.
   (C)   The following conditions, but not limited only to those shall
constitute public nuisances for the purpose of this section:
      (1)   Litter.
      (2)   Fallen trees, stumps or dead trees.
      (3)   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items, tire, tools,
fixtures, and long term storage of construction materials.
      (4)   Demolition remains.
      (5)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether
lined or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property,
including open foundations.
      (6)   Dressing of poultry or rabbits.
      (7)   Structure defaced with paint or wording.
      (8)   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, trash, rubbish, animal
waste, or human excrement which is deposited, allowed, or caused to be upon any
property.
      (9)   Any substance which is caused or permitted to flow onto or be
deposited upon any public property or public way, except natural surface water
drainage.
      (10)   The erection of a damn or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the flow of water and causes it to collect or pool upon any
public property.
      (11)   Any dead animal.
      (12)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease and is likely to cause an imminent health hazard.
      (13)   The placing or accumulation on or within any real or personal
property, or the permitting of same, of any matter which attracts or may
attract rodents, insects, or animals in such a manner as to create a health
hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition.
      (14)   Any real or personal property used as a place of residence or
habitation for sleeping that is maintained in such a way as to be dangerous or
detrimental to life or health due to the lack of or defects in water, drainage,
heating, plumbing, or ventilation.
      (15)   Any dilapidated or condemned building structure, or dwelling, or
mains thereof, so out of repair that is constitutes a fire hazard liable to
catch on fire or communicate fire to surround properties
      (16)   Any noxious or repugnant odor, smoke, dust, or noise that emits
from premises into surround atmosphere which created an uncomfortable condition
to surround properties.
      (17)   The storage of explosive, combustible, or other flammable material
which creates a safety or health risk.
      (18)   Any trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow, fences, or other material which
creates a safety or health risk.
      (19)   Any junk automobiles, broken concrete, scrap metal, or automobile
parts.
      (20)   Any growth of weeds, grass, or other rank vegetation which is
either:
         (a)   Neglected, disregarded or not adequately managed or controlled,
cut, mown, or removed: or
         (b)   Has attained a height of four inches or more; or
         (c)   Is actually or imminently detrimental to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
    Violations of the requirements of this section shall be addressed through
the town's duly authorized representative as follows:
   (A)   When a public nuisance is found to exist, the town's representative
shall notify the property's owner to abate the nuisance according to applicable
law.
   (B)   The written notice to abate shall be served upon an owner by personal
service, by certified mail, or by a "notice" placard conspicuously posted on
the property with a copy of the notice being sent by regular first class United
States mail, postage prepaid, granting a minimum of five calendar days to abate
the nuisance. That notice shall state the nature of the nuisance and the
penalty for neglect or refusal to abate the nuisance. That notice shall also
contain the address and the telephone number of the town, and a notification
that if the nuisance is not abated within ten calendar days of that notice, the
town may abate the nuisance and seek recovery for its costs of doing so.
   (C)   Within five calendar days of delivery of a notice to abate, the owner
may notify the town is writing of any specific objection to that notice. No
further abatement action shall be pursued until such action is directed by the
Town Council.
   (D)   If after the expiration of those five days the public nuisance
continues unabated, and either no objection has been made or an objection has
been made and considered by the Council and the Council has overruled the
objection, further action shall be taken to abate that nuisance with this
section and applicable law.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-21-2017; Am. Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 94.07 CITATION FOR FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   Whenever the town's representative, after the expiration of the notice,
determines that the property's owner has failed to abate the nuisance, the
town's representative may cause a citation to be issued against that owner. For
the first offense, the fine shall be $ 25, the second offense the fine shall be
$50, for all subsequent offenses the fine shall be $ 100. Each subsequent day
of violation shall be considered a separate and chargeable offense.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.08 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY TOWN.
   Upon failure, neglect or refusal of any party to comply with the notice to
abate, in addition to the issuance of a citation under §
94.07, the town's representative, in the name of the Town Council may cause the
town to abate by any reasonable means the public nuisance, and thereafter
furnish the Town Council with a statement of the costs of that abatement.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 94.09 INSTITUTION OF ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   An action for appropriate relief may be brought against an alleged violator
by submitting unpaid fines to the town’s agent for collection.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-21-2017; Am. Ord. 2017-9, passed 11-5-2019)
§ 94.10 PROCEDURE FOR COLLECTION OF ABATEMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
   (A)   The town's representative shall make and issue to the owner a bill for
those abatement costs, including administrative costs. That bill shall be
delivered to the owner by any reasonable means including first class mail sent
to the address as it appears upon the tax duplicates in the records of the
Union County Auditor. The owner shall pay the amount of the bill to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer's office within 30 days of the date of that delivery unless,
within those 30 days the owner notifies that office in writing of any objection
to that bill. If that notice is given, no further collection action shall be
taken until the Town Council acts on the objection.
   (B)   If the 30 days has expired and either no timely objection to the bill
has been made or the Town Council overruled any timely objection and the bill
is not paid in full, then the bill for all such costs which the owner has
failed to pay shall be certified to the County Auditor to be placed on the tax
duplicate for that property with the result that the amount so certified shall
be collected as delinquent taxes are collected.
   (C)   Any public nuisances that are abated by the Utilities Department will
have the revenue from paid costs receipted into the MVH Fund. If a contractor
is hired to abate the property, the revenue from paid costs will be receipted
into the general receipts of the General Fund.
   (D)   Fee schedule. 
 
      (1)   Abatement services shall billed at the following hourly rates.
Service Rate per Hour*
Service                  Rate per Hour*
Man Hours                $25 x number of employees
Riding Mower             $25
Weed Eater               $25
Leaf Blower              $25
Hand Sprayer/Weed Killer $25
Bush Hog                 $50
Single Axel Dump Truck   $70
Backhoe                  $70
Chainsaw                 $25
Pole Chainsaw            $30
Hedge Trimmer            $25
Hand Prunner             $15
*Hours will be figured on the quarter hour.
 
      (2)   In addition, there shall be an administrative fee of $25 for all
abatement services.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 8-21-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-20-2019; Am. Ord.
2024-9, passed 8-5-2024)
HEALTH AND SANITATION
§ 94.30 IN GENERAL.
   It shall be unlawful and it shall be a nuisance, for any person, persons,
company or corporation to erect, construct, cause permit, keep or maintain
within the limits of the town, anything whatsoever which is injurious to
health, or indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free
use of property, and any person or persons maintaining any nuisance as above
set forth is declared to be the author and maintainer of a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 3-11-1929) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.31 LITTERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, company or corporation
to throw or deposit, or suffer to be thrown or deposited, or suffer or permit
any child, servant, member of the family, or any other person under his, her or
their control, to throw or deposit any manure, rubbish, slops, putrid or
unsound animal or vegetable matter or any filthy, noisome, or unwholesome
liquid or slops or substances that are liable to become unwholesome, in, into,
or upon any street, lane, alley, sidewalk, gutter, crossing lot, cellar,
premises or commons, and it shall also be unlawful for any rank weeds to be
allowed to grow on any ground within the corporation of the town.
   (B)   And it shall be unlawful and it shall be a nuisance for any noisome or
overflowing vault or non- fly proof privy to exist.
(Ord. passed 3-11-1929) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.32 KITCHEN GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   All kitchens and every place where garbage may accumulate shall be
provided with garbage receptacles and the receptacles shall be made of
galvanized iron, shall be tightly covered and emptied, cleaned and disinfected,
and weeds shall be cut and hauled away at any time upon the written orders of
the Health Officer; the Officer is to fix a reasonable time limit in his or her
order when the garbage receptacles or vaults shall be emptied, cleaned and
disinfected and weeds shall be cut and hauled away; and if any owner or lessee,
being duly ordered as herein provided, shall fail or refuse to obey the order,
it shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner (or other designated officer)
upon written notice form the
Health Officer, to cause the garbage receptacles or vaults to be cleaned,
emptied and disinfected, or the weeds to be cut and hauled away, and the Street
Commissioner (or other designated officer) shall keep an accurate account of
the expense thereof, which shall be paid from the Town Treasury upon the sworn
voucher of the Street Commissioner (or other designated officer), and the
expenses shall be a lien on the property and collected by law and turned into
the Town Treasury.
   (B)   And it shall be unlawful to fill up iod privy vaults or sinks without
first emptying same.
(Ord. passed 3-11-1929) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.33 SANITARY SURVEY.
   (A)   The Secretary of the Town Board of Health, who is also Town Health
Officer, all deputy health officers and Town Marshal, shall have full power and
authority to enter into or upon any street, lot, alley, premises or ground, for
the purpose of making a sanitary survey of the same, and if a nuisance or an
unsanitary condition is found, it shall be the duty of the Town Health Officer,
when informed of the existence of the same, to immediately notify the person or
person so offending, in writing, fixing a time limit to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   If the person shall fail or refuse to abate the nuisance within the
time specified, it shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner, upon notice of
the Health Officer, to cause the same to be abated, keeping an accurate account
of the expense thereof, which shall be paid from the Town Treasury upon the
sworn voucher of the Street Commissioner, and the expense shall be a lien on
the property, and collected as taxes are collected and turned into the Town
Treasury.
(Ord. passed 3-11-1929)
§ 94.34 TOWN HEALTH OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Town Health Officer and all deputy health officers he or she may
appoint shall have police power and shall be diligent in enforcing this
subchapter and in doing what is reasonable and necessary for the protection and
preservation of the public health. They shall study the state health laws and
the health rules of the State Board of Health and be active in enforcing the
same.
   (B)   The vital statistics shall be carefully collected, duly recorded and
reported to the State Board of Health for final compilation in the state health
reports, by the Town Health Officer; and work done with the recommendations as
may seem proper to him or her.
(Ord. passed 3-11-1929)
§ 94.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF QUARANTINE.
   (A)   If at any time the work of prevention of the spread of infectious or
contagious diseases is more than can be reasonably expected of the Town Health
Officer, he or she may, with the consent of the Mayor, employ one or more
intelligent people to act as deputies to establish quarantine, remove patients
to the special hospital and conduct disinfections and the deputies shall have
all the power of a constable of law.
   (B)   All houses wherein infections and contagious diseases may exist or
have existed, shall at the proper time be thoroughly disinfected according to
the rules of the State Board of Health, by the Health Officer or his or her
deputies at the expense of the town as the work is obviously for the benefit of
the people.
   (C)   A complete record of all disinfections, all vaccinations and all other
health work done by the Town Health Officer in the minutes of the Town Board of
Health.
(Ord. passed 3-11-1929)
§ 94.36 PROTECTIVE PROCEDURES; VISITATION.
   When visiting persons known to be infected with smallpox, diphtheria and
scarlet fever, all persons and health officers shall protect their clothing and
hair against infection, and shall thoroughly disinfect themselves before coming
in contact with the public.
(Ord. passed 3-11-1929) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.37 DUTY OF TOWN MARSHAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal at all times to aid the Town Health
Officer in the work of enforcing the subchapter upon demand of the Health
Officer.
(Ord. passed 3-11-1929)
CHAPTER 95: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definition
   
95.02   Responsibility of Town Council
   
95.03   Interference with the Town Council’s oversight
   
95.04   Arborists
   
95.05   Review by Town Council
   
95.06   Public tree care
Tree Species; Prohibited Activities; Responsibility
   
95.15   Species to be planted
   
95.16   Spacing
   
95.17   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
95.18   Utilities
   
95.19   Tree topping
   
95.20   Pruning; corner clearance
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 94
   Town Officials and Employees, see
Chapter 30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between the sidewalks and curbs (or any area equivalent thereto where
there are no sidewalks and/or curbs or any similar area regardless of sidewalks
and curbs) or any public area within the town.
(Ord. 1995-1A, passed 1-23-1995; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 95.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall serve as the oversight committee for the maintenance
of trees within the town's corporation limits.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Town Council or its designated
agent, to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and
administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal of disposition of street trees and shrubs along streets and
in other public areas.
   (B)   The plan will be presented annually to the Town Council and upon them
acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive town tree
plan.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 INTERFERENCE WITH THE TOWN COUNCIL’S OVERSIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Town Council, or any of its agents, while engaging in the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street trees, or
trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 ARBORISTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street trees within the town
without first filing evidence of possession of liability insurance in the
minimum coverage amounts of $50,000 for bodily injury and $100,000 property
damage indemnifying the town or any person injured or damaged proximately
resulting from the pursuit of the endeavors as herein described except the
requirement shall not apply to any major utility company operating in
compliance with applicable Indiana and/or federal law.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 95.05 REVIEW BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the town's designated agents. Any person may appeal any ruling or
order of the Town Council or its designated agents, Town Council shall hear the
appealed question and render a final decision.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024) Penalty, see § 
95.99
§ 95.06 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and
remove trees, plants and shrubs within the places designated in § 95.01 subject
to the permission of all contiguous owners as may be necessary to insure public
safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and natural beauty of the
premises.
      (2)   The Town Council or its designated agents, may remove or cause or
order to be removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition
or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines,
gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect or other invasive pest.
      (3)   This division does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of the trees
is in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The town shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead
or diseased trees on private property within the town whereby the trees
constitute a material hazard to life, limb or property, or harbor insects or
disease which constitute a viable threat to other trees within the town.
      (2)   The Town Council will notify in writing the owners of the trees to
be removed under this division.
      (3)   Removal shall be done by the owners at their own expense within 60
days after the date of service of notice.
      (4)   In the event of failure of owners to comply with the provisions,
the town shall have the authority to remove the trees and charge the cost of
removal on the owners' property tax notice by certification by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer to the County Auditor.
   (C)   All stumps of street trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground.
(Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024) Penalty, see § 
95.99
TREE SPECIES; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES; RESPONSIBILITY
§ 95.15 SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The following list constitutes the official street tree species for
the town.
   (B)   No species other than those included in this list may be planted as
street trees without written permission of the Town Tree Board.
Small Trees Medium Trees Large Trees
Small Trees               Medium Trees              Large Trees
Apricot                   Ash, Green                Coffeetree, Kentucky
Crabapple, Flowering (sp) Hackberry                 Maple, Silver
Golden Rain Tree          Honeylocust (thornless)   Maple, Sugar
Hawthorne (sp)            Linden or Basswood (sp)   Oak, Burr
Pear, Bradford            Mulberry, Red (fruitless, Sycamore
                          male)
Redbud                    Oak, English              Sycamore, London Plantree
Soapberry                 Oak, Red                  Cottonwood (Cottonless,
                                                    male)
Lilac, Jap. Tree          Pagodatree, Japanese      Gum
Peach, Flowering          Pecan                      
Plum, Purpleleaf          Birch, River                 
Serviceberry              Osageorange (Male,         
                          thornless)
                         Persimmon
                          Poplar, White
                          Sassafras
 
(Ord. 1995-1A, passed 1-23-1995; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024) Penalty,
see § 
95.99
§ 95.16 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in § 
95.15 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer together than the
following: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50
feet; except in special plantings designed or approved by a landscape
architect.
(Ord. 1995-1A, passed 1-23-1995; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024) Penalty,
see § 
95.99
§ 95.17 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   (A)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street
comer, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. 1995-1A, passed 1-23-1995; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024) Penalty,
see § 
95.99
§ 95.18 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in § 95.15 of
this chapter may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water
line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
(Ord. 1995-1A, passed 1-23-1995; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024) Penalty,
see § 
95.99
§ 95.19 TREE TOPPING.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited as a normal practice for any person, firm, or
town department to top any street trees or other tree on the property defined
herein.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three
inches in diameter within the tree's crown to a degree so as to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   (C)   Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees
under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical may be exempted from this chapter at the determination of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 1995-1A, passed 1-23-1995; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024) Penalty,
see § 
95.99
§ 95.20 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the town shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk.
   (B)   The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
   (C)   The town shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign or when it becomes a safety hazard.
(Ord. 1995-1A, passed 1-23-1995; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024) Penalty,
see § 
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
    Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon
determination of liability or an admission of responsibility, subject to a fine
not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 1995-1A, passed 1-23-1995; Am. Ord. 2024-11, passed 8-5-2024)
CHAPTER 96: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
96.01   General prohibition
   
96.02   Specific prohibitions
   
96.03   Exemptions and permissions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No person shall make or cause to be made any noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects
their property’s value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific
prohibitions listed in the following section.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 8-20-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a device for the amplification of sound where
the sound is emitted directly into the public streets, ways or parks, either
for the purposes of advertising, personal fulfillment or attracting attention,
so loudly that the sound emitted can be heard to the annoyance or discomfort of
persons in passing or stopped vehicles, neighboring premises, or on such public
streets or ways.
   (B)   No person shall operate a radio, television set, musical instrument,
tape, compact disc or record player, amplifier or similar device in such a
manner as to be plainly audible beyond the sound source’s property boundaries,
or through walls common to two or more dwelling units or businesses within a
building or attached buildings. This includes, but is not limited to, the
operation of such devices from within vehicles.
   (C)   No person shall operate a domestic power tool outdoors between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays, and between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekends and holidays, in such a manner that will disturb
or annoy any reasonable person nearby.
   (D)   No person shall operate a tool or equipment used in construction,
drilling or demolition between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on
weekdays, and between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekends and
holidays, in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any reasonable person
nearby.
   (E)   No person shall operate a horn or other audible signal device on any
motor vehicle or motorcycle in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any
reasonable person nearby, provided that this provision shall not apply to an
emergency vehicle operated by an ambulance service or governmental unit,
   (F)   No person shall participate in any party or gathering between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., giving rise to noise that is plainly audible
beyond the sound source’s property boundaries, or through walls common to two
or more dwelling units within a building.
   (G)   No person shall operate a motorcycle or motor vehicle in such a manner
that causes excessive noise as a result of a defective or modified exhaust
system, or as a result of unnecessary acceleration, deceleration, engine
revving or tire squealing.
   (H)   No person shall operate a sound amplification device in such a manner
as to cause vibrations perceptible without the aid of instruments beyond the
sound source’s property boundaries. This includes, but is not limited to, the
operation of such devices from within vehicles.
   (I)   No person shall yell, shout, hoot, whistle or sing in the public
streets so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in
any dwelling or business.
   (J)   No person shall keep an animal that causes frequent or continued noise
that disturbs the comfort or reposes or persons in any dwelling or business.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 8-20-2018) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 EXEMPTIONS AND PERMISSIONS.
   (A)   The provisions set forth in §§
96.01 and
96.02 shall not apply to the emission of sound for the purpose of alerting
persons to the existence of an emergency, or the emission of sound in the
performance of work to prevent or alleviate physical or property damage
threatened or caused by calamity or other exceptional circumstances.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have the authority to allow exemptions and
permissions for the following situations, notwithstanding the foregoing
prohibitions: holidays, celebrations, concerts, parades or other special
events, both public and private;
      (1)   Parties requesting exemptions and permissions for a special event
must file a form with the Clerk-Treasurer’s office for consideration at the
next available Town Council meeting.
      (2)   Exemptions and permissions may contain conditions that are
necessary to minimize the adverse impact of the activity, including a time
limit.
      (3)   The Town Council may issue guidelines defining the procedures to be
followed in applying for exceptions and permissions to be considered in the
issuance of an exception or permission.
      (4)   The Town Council may grant exceptions and permissions to persons
who demonstrate that the foregoing prohibitions constitute an unreasonable
hardship due to temporary circumstances.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person owning or operating a motor vehicle with sound
amplification devices that violate the foregoing prohibitions shall be in
violation of this code.
   (B)   Any person or entity found in violation of §§
96.01 and
96.02 shall be fined $50.
   (C)   Each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person or entity that wishes to appeal a violation must appear
before the Town Council. The Town Council has the authority to determine
whether the violation is correct and binding.
   (E)   Any fine that is not paid 30 days after citation, and on which the
violator has not filed an appeal, will be submitted to the Union County Circuit
Court, with the person or entity being held responsible for all court costs and
fines.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 8-20-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Liquor retailers
   
110.02   Peddlers and solicitors
§ 110.01 LIQUOR RETAILERS.
   The consent of the town be and the same is hereby given and granted unto the
proper legal authorities of any state or local body with jurisdiction, to issue
liquor retailers’ permits for the sale of alcoholic, spirituous beverages to
applicants otherwise duly qualified to premises within the town, all agreeable
to the provisions of I.C. 7.1-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1972-10, passed 7-26-1972; Am. Ord. 2023-6, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 110.02 PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell or
otherwise offer for sale any kind of merchandise or services by soliciting
within the corporation limits of the town without registering with the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Solicitor(s) must complete registration form and present valid
driver’s license(s) or State Identification Card(s) for all individuals
participating in the process. The on-duty law enforcement officer will conduct
background checks on all participants. The law enforcement officer has the
right to deny any solicitor the authority to proceed based on the information
received on the background check(s).
   (C)   Solicitors may be directed to leave the corporation limits, by the law
enforcement officer, if complaints are received by residents regarding
aggressive selling tactics or questionable behavior displayed by the
solicitors.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale, at retail or
wholesale, goods, wares, merchandise, services and/or any other commodities
from vehicles, stands or otherwise, parked or placed on the streets, alleys or
sidewalks of the town unless given previous permission by the Town Council or
it is in conjunction with an approved community event.
(Ord. 12, passed 8-5-1954; Am. Ord. 1973-2, passed 3-7-1973; Am. Ord. 2023-6,
passed 6-5-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct involving motor vehicles
   
130.02   Curfew
   
130.03   Radio interference
Cross-reference:
   Noise Control, see
Chapter 96
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT INVOLVING MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a motor vehicle on the
streets or public highways of the town or upon any similar places in the town
where the general public has motor vehicular access in a manner or with
equipment as to make, create, facilitate, increase or maintain any loud,
unnecessary, excessive or unusual noise which annoys, disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose or peace and quiet of any other person or of any
neighborhood within the town; likewise no person shall operate or cause to be
operated a motor vehicle upon the aforementioned places so as to unnecessarily
break traction or so as to unnecessarily cause undue skidding of the motor
vehicle.
(Ord. 1986-5, passed 6-16-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Children 15, 16 and 17 years of age. It is a curfew violation for a
child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
(I.C. 31-37-3-2(a))
   (B)   Children under 15 years of age. It is a curfew violation for a child
less than 15 years of age to be in a public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:
00 a.m. on any day.
(I.C. 31-31-3-3(a))
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian,
or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, Section 31 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, or both,
such as freedom of speech and the right of assembly; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision
of one or more adults;
      (4)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian; or
      (5)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside Indiana to another location outside Indiana.
(I.C. 31-37-3-3.5(b))
   (D)   Defenses under I.C. 31-37-3-3.5(a). It is a defense to a violation
under this section that the child was emancipated:
      (1)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
      (2)   By virtue of having married; or
      (3)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction;
at the time that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct.
(I.C. 31-37-3-3.5(a))
   (E)   Penalties. The custodial parent or legal guardian of any child who
commits a curfew ordinance violation, as defined herein, violates this section
and shall be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   Twenty-five dollars for a first offense;
      (2)   One hundred dollars for a second offense within a one-year period;
or
      (3)   Two hundred dollars for a third offense and every subsequent
offense within a one-year period.
(Ord. 1989-7, passed 8-28-1989; Am. Ord. 2007-8, passed 12-17-2007)
§ 130.03 RADIO INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   Be it ordained by the Town Council that it shall be unlawful to
operate in the town any radio receiving equipment in a manner as to cause
electrostatic or electromagnetic waves to radiate in a manner as to interfere
with radio reception.
   (B)   Be it further ordained that it shall be unlawful to operate within the
town any vibrating battery charger or any other apparatus or equipment in a
manner as to cause electric, electrostatic or electromagnetic waves to be
radiated therefrom, in a manner as to interfere with radio reception.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, persons, firm or corporation owning or operating in
the town any apparatus or machine emitting high frequency oscillations,
commonly known as high frequency oscillators, x-ray, or violet ray machines,
shall be required to register the apparatus or machine with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (2)   The registration shall be made without charge.
      (3)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a permanent record thereof
which shall show the name and address of the owner or operator and the name and
type of apparatus or machine.
   (D)   (1)   The duly authorized inspector or other officer or employee of
the town, appointed or designated by the Town Council thereof, shall have
authority to enter upon the premises of any person, persons, firm, or
corporation at any time between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. of the
same day for the purpose of testing for and locating the source of radio
interference.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the duly authorized inspector, officer, or
employee to notify in writing the owner of any apparatus, equipment, or machine
which in his or her opinion is the source of radio interference or is being
operated in a way as to cause radio interference.
      (3)   Ten days shall be allowed any person, persons, firm, or corporation
found violating any of the provisions of this section, to repair, correct,
replace or discontinue the use of any apparatus, equipment, or machine causing
interference with radio reception.
(Ord. 1931-1 passed 8-17-1931) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Authority
   
150.02   Assistance
   
150.03   Enforcement
Permits
   
150.15   Application
   
150.16   Permit required
   
150.17   Other ordinances; compliance
   
150.18   Fees and required inspections
   
150.19   Review of application
   
150.20   Inspections; assistance
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.30   Stop order
   
150.31   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.32   Workmanship
   
150.33   Violations
   
150.34   Right of appeal
   
150.35   Remedies
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fair Housing, see
Chapter 92
   Fire Prevention, see
Chapter 91
   Unsafe Buildings, see
Chapter 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 AUTHORITY.
   The Executive Director of the Union County Plan Commission is hereby
authorized and directed to administer and enforce all provisions of the State
of Indiana Building Code, One and Two Family Dwelling Code, Plumbing Code,
Electrical Code, Mechanical Code, Energy Conservation Code, Swimming Pool Code
and Fire Safety Standards as well as local code adopted by the Union County
Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2023-6, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 150.02 ASSISTANCE.
   The Executive Director of the Union County Plan Commission may request
assistance from the town for infrastructure information. The Town Council has
the authority to allow the town’s Superintendent of Utilities to assist the
Executive Director with such requests.
(Ord. 2023-6, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 150.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   If the Executive Director of the Union County Plan Commission may request
assistance from the town for enforcement of the codes. The request will be
presented to the Town Council and the Town Attorney for consideration.
(Ord. 2023-6, passed 6-5-2023)
PERMITS
§ 150.15 APPLICATION.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for the work which is covered by
the specifications listed in §
150.05 above unless the application for a permit is accompanied by a plot or
sketch of the proposed location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and
specifications showing the work to be done.
   (B)   In addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State Building
Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1, shall be
provided to the Executive Director of the County Planning Department before
issuance of a permit for construction covered by the design release.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996)
§ 150.16 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration or
repair of any building or structure, the cost of which exceeds $1,000, using
forms furnished by the County Planning Department and all fees required by this
chapter shall be paid to the County Planning Department.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996)
§ 150.17 OTHER ORDINANCES; COMPLIANCE.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with this chapter
and all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for
permits, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in the ordinances.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996)
§ 150.18 FEES AND REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Permits shall be required only for the types of construction listed in
this section.
Type of Construction Required Inspections Single Inspection Fee Permit Fee
Type of Construction                   Required    Single Inspection Permit Fee
                                       Inspections Fee
One or two family dwelling, detached
(electric, mechanical, plumbing        4           $25               $100
included in cost)
Manufactured/modular homes (including  2           $25               $50
placement thereof)
Apartments, hotels, motels, each unit  3           $25               $75
Business, commercial, public           6           $25               $150
Educational, institutional, church     6           $25               $150
Industrial, warehouse, bulk storage    4           $25               $100
Mobile homes, temporary structures     1           $25               $25
(including placement thereof)
Accessory buildings (residential use;  1           $25               $25
larger than ten feet x 12 feet)
Additions/alterations (all             2           $25               $50
occupancies)
   Decks, carports, awnings         2           $25               $25
   Electrical                       2           $15               $15
   Plumbing                         2           $15               $15
   Mechanical                       2           $15               $15
   Sign (larger than 12 inches x 12 1           $15               $15
inches)
Subdivision petition                   -           -                 $75
Swimming pool (more than three feet    -           -                 $25
deep)
*Siding and roofing                    -           -                 no charge
*Agricultural buildings                -           -                 no charge
*NOTE TO TABLE: There will be no charge for permits for agricultural buildings.
However, if the permit is not issued prior to the beginning of construction, a
penalty of $50 will be assessed at the discretion of the Executive Director.
 
   (B)   The minimum permit fee for any permit shall be $15.
   (C)   For unusually large or complex building or structures, the Executive
Director of the County Planning Department shall have the power to increase the
number of required inspections by 50%. The Executive Director of the County
Planning Department shall in all cases designate the stage of construction when
each required inspection must be requested by the permit holder.
   (D)   (1)   No concrete shall be placed for foundations without prior
inspection.
      (2)   No electrical, mechanical, plumbing, or thermal insulation work
shall be covered without prior inspection.
   (E)   Where additional inspections are required due to failure of permit
holder to have work ready for inspection at a designated stage of construction,
the Executive Director of the County Planning Department shall have the power
to assess a reinspection fee of $25 for each additional inspection.
Reinspection fees shall be paid to the County Planning Department prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   (F)   The Executive Director of the County Planning Department shall submit
an annual report to the County Commissioners of permit fees collected, cost of
inspection operations and recommendations for adjustment of required
inspections and single inspection fees as necessary.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996)
§ 150.19 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Executive Director of the
County Planning Department shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of the code;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the flood
plan area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the flood plain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including pre- fabricated and
mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure, or flood damage; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996)
§ 150.20 INSPECTIONS; ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   (1)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Executive
Director of the County Planning Department shall make, or shall cause to be
made, inspections of the work being done as are necessary to ensure full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the terms of the permit.
      (2)   Reinspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready for
inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as prescribed in this
chapter.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her designated
representative, shall assist the Executive Director of the County Planning
Department in the inspection of fire suppression, detection and alarm systems
and shall provide reports of the inspection to the Executive Director of the
County Planning Department.
   (C)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Executive Director of the
County Planning Department or his or her duly authorized representatives may
enter at reasonable times any building structure or premises in the town to
perform any duty imposed upon him or her by this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.30 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
the Executive Director of the County Planning Department may order the work
stopped by notice in writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or
causing the work to be done, and any of these persons shall forthwith stop the
work until authorized by the Executive Director of the County Planning
Department to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure after the
adoption of this chapter shall be issued unless building or structure was
constructed in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any building or structure unless a
full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the
Executive Director of the County Planning Department.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.32 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.33 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether owner,
lessee, sublessee, or occupant to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure, other than fences, in the town or cause or permit the
same to be done contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.34 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal any order of the Executive
Director of the County Planning Department first through the Town Council and
then to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission in accordance with
the provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and 4-21.5-3-7 or any court of general
jurisdiction in the county where the action takes place.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996)
§ 150.35 REMEDIES.
   The Executive Director shall, in the name of the Planning Department of the
county, bring action in the civil courts of the county for mandatory and
injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order
of orders made by the Executive Director of the County Planning Department, and
any action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to
recover the penalties provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform
any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Executive
Director of the County Planning Department or shall fail, neglect or refuse to
obey any lawful order given by the Executive Director of the County Planning
Department in connection with the provisions of this chapter, for each
violation, failure or refusal, the person, firm or corporation shall be fined
in any sum not less than $50, nor more than $500 per day for the unlawful
activity. Each day of the unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first
sentence of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-1-1996)
CHAPTER 151: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Adoption of state law; administration generally
   
151.02   Definitions
Administration; Enforcement
   
151.15   Code Enforcement Office; issuance of orders
   
151.16   Contents of orders
   
151.17   Service of orders by publication
   
151.18   Modification of orders
   
151.19   Recission of orders
   
151.20   Service of orders and statements
   
151.21   Hearings; notice
   
151.22   Judicial review
   
151.23   Recording orders, statements, and records
   
151.24   Emergency action
   
151.25   Receivers
   
151.26   Performance by contractor; public bids
   
151.27   Performance by contractor; liability of owners; lien
   
151.28   Funds and financial administration
   
151.29   Inspection warrants
   
151.30   Civil action by town
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW; ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   The provisions of I.C. 18-5-5.5-1 et seq. are hereby adopted by the
town and this chapter shall be known as “this chapter.”
   (B)   The administration of the provision of this chapter shall be the
responsibility of the Town Council, which Council itself shall be the Office of
Code Enforcement as hereinafter defined in this chapter and the Director as
hereinafter defined in this chapter shall be appointed by the Town Council to
serve at the will of the Council.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. Title 18 has been repealed. Similar state law provisions are now
codified in I.C. 36-7-9.
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Liberty, Indiana.
   DIRECTOR. The appointed person to aid the Office of Code Enforcement in the
administration of this chapter.
   OFFICE OF CODE ENFORCEMENT or OFFICE. The unit of government designated by
the Town Council to administer this chapter (that is, the Town Council itself
since by this chapter the Council is appointing itself as Office of Code
Enforcement).
   ORDER. Any written directive issued by the Office of Code Enforcement in
accordance with §
151.15 of this chapter.
   PERSON. Any entity capable of holding an interest in real estate, including,
but not limited to, individuals and corporations.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real estate susceptible of being
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate or future interest, a present possessory
interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
   UNSAFE PREMISES. Any unsafe building or the tract of real estate on which an
unsafe building is located or any, unsafe building and the tract of real estate
on which the unsafe building is located.
   UNSAFE STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. Any building or structure, or any part
thereof, that is in an impaired structural condition or state which renders it
unsafe or dangerous to any person or property; or is a fire hazard; or is a
hazard to the public health; or is a public nuisance; or does not comply with
standards for building condition or maintenance, the violation of which would
be dangerous to any person or property, found in an ordinance enacted by the
Town Council or in state law. The standards for building condition, maintenance
and safety of the state and the town are hereby incorporated to the extent they
are consistent with each other.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980)
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.15 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICE; ISSUANCE OF ORDERS.
   (A)   The Office of Code Enforcement may issue an order relative to any
unsafe premises to require action, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Vacating of an unsafe building;
      (2)   Sealing an unsafe building;
      (3)   Extermination of vermin in and about the unsafe premises;
      (4)   Repair of an unsafe building to bring it into compliance with
standards for building condition or maintenance found in ordinances enacted by
the Town Council;
      (5)   Removal of a portion of an unsafe building; and/or
      (6)   Removal of an unsafe building.
   (B)   The ordered action shall be reasonably related to the condition of the
unsafe premises and the nature and use of nearby properties.
   (C)   The order shall take precedence over any municipally-issued permit
relating to building or land use which is obtained either before or after the
order is issued.
   (D)   The force of an order shall expire two years from the day the notice
of the order is given unless one or more of the following events occur within
the two year period:
      (1)   A complaint requesting judicial review is filed in accordance with
§
151.22 of this chapter;
      (2)   Work is let out at public bid to a contractor to perform action
required by an order in accordance with §
151.27 of this chapter; and/or
      (3)   A civil action is filed in the circuit or superior court in
accordance with §
10.99.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.16 CONTENTS OF ORDERS.
   (A)   Any order shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that are
the subject of the order;
      (3)   The action which the order requires to be accomplished;
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished measured from the time when the notice of the order is given;
      (5)   A statement indicating the exact time and place of the hearing
regarding the order; and that the person to whom the order was issued has a
right to appear at the hearing with or without legal counsel and present
evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses and make argument;
      (6)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
Office of Code Enforcement if the order is not complied with;
      (7)   A statement indicating the obligation created by §
151.24 of this chapter relating to notification of subsequent interest holders
and the Office of Code Enforcement; and
      (8)   The name, address, and telephone number of the Office of Code
Enforcement.
   (B)   (1)   The order shall allow sufficient time in which to accomplish the
required action.
      (2)   In no case shall less than ten calendar days from the time when
notice of the order is given be allowed for compliance with an order.
   (C)   In the instance where more than 30 calendar days are allowed by the
order to accomplish the action, the order may require that a substantial
beginning be made in accomplishing the action within a period of 30 calendar
days.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.17 SERVICE OF ORDERS BY PUBLICATION.
   If service of the order is by publication, the publication shall include the
information required by divisions (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6) and
(A)(8) of §
151.16 and also a statement indicating generally what action is required by the
order and that the exact terms of the order may be obtained from the Office of
Code Enforcement.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.18 MODIFICATION OF ORDERS.
   (A)   The Office of Code Enforcement may issue an order to a person which
has the effect of modifying the order previously issued to the person.
   (B)   If service of the previously issued order was by publication it shall
be sufficient to serve the subsequent order by publication unless the Office of
Code Enforcement has received information in writing that would enable it to
make service in accordance with §
151.20 of this chapter by a method other than publication.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980)
§ 151.19 RECISSION OF ORDERS.
   (A)   The Office of Code Enforcement may at any time rescind an order.
   (B)   All persons who have been issued an order shall be notified of its
rescission pursuant to §
151.20 of this chapter by means of a written statement which shall include the
information required by I.C. 18-5-5.5-7.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s note:
   I.C. Title 18 has been repealed. Similar state law provisions are now
codified in I.C. 36-7-9.
§ 151.20 SERVICE OF ORDERS AND STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Notice of orders (including orders which have the effect of modifying
a previous order), notice of statements of rescission, notice of continued
hearings, notice of a statement that public bids are to be let, and notice that
a hearing my be held on the amounts indicated in the record shall be given to
all persons to whom directed by the following manner of service:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the order or statement by registered or certified
mail to the residence or place of business or employment of the person to be
notified with return receipt requested;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the order or statement personally to the
person to be notified; or
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the order or statement at the dwelling house or
usual place of abode of the person to be notified.
   (B)   (1)   In the event service is not obtained by a means described above
after reasonable effort, service may be made by publishing a notice of the
order or statement at least two times in a newspaper authorized by law to
publish notices, which is published in the county where the unsafe premises are
located.
      (2)   Publication may be made on consecutive days.
   (C)   (1)   When service is made by any of the means described in this
section except by mailing or by publication, the person making service shall
make an affidavit stating that he or she has made the
service, the manner in which made, to whom the order or statement was issued,
the nature of the order or statement, and the date of service.
      (2)   The affidavit shall be placed on file in the Office of Code
Enforcement.
   (D)   The time when notice of the order or statement is deemed given is as
follows:
      (1)   In case of personal delivery or leaving at the dwelling house or
usual place of abode, the day when the order or statement is delivered to the
person or left at his or her dwelling house or usual place of abode;
      (2)   In the case of mailing, the date shown on the return receipt, or if
no date is shown, the date when the return receipt is received by the Office of
Code Enforcement; or
      (3)   In the case of publication, the date of the second day that
publication was made.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980)
§ 151.21 HEARINGS; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   A hearing shall be held relative to each order.
      (2)   The hearing shall be conducted by the Office of Code Enforcement,
which body shall make any and all decisions pertaining to the matters being
heard therein.
   (B)   (1)   The hearing shall be held on a business day no earlier than ten
calendar days after notice of the order is given.
      (2)   The Office of Code Enforcement may, however, take action at a
hearing to continue the hearing relative to the order so that it will be held
on a later business day.
      (3)   Unless the Office of Code Enforcement takes action to have the
continued hearing held on a definite, specified date, notice of the hearing
shall be given to the person to whom the order was issued at least five
calendar days before the hearing date in the manner provided by §
151.20 of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The person to whom the order was issued, or any person having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe premises which are the subject of
the order may appear in person or by counsel at the hearing.
      (2)   The person shall have the opportunity to present evidence, cross-
examine opposing witnesses, and make argument.
   (D)   At the conclusion of any hearing at which a continuance is not
granted, the Office of Code Enforcement may, irrespective of whether the person
does or does not appear at the hearing, make findings and take action to
either:
      (1)   Affirm the order;
      (2)   Rescind the order; or
      (3)   Modify the order, provided, however, that unless the person to whom
the order was issued, or counsel for the person is present at the hearing, the
Office of Code Enforcement shall have authority only to modify the order in a
manner as to make its terms less stringent.
   (E)   (1)   If a person to whom an order has been issued requests at a
hearing a period of time to accomplish action beyond that time stated in the
order, the Office of Code Enforcement may, as a condition for modifying the
order to allow the additional time period, require that the person post a cash
performance bond to be forfeited in the event that the ordered action is not
completed within the additional time period allowed.
      (2)   The amount of the bond shall be equal to 30% of the value of the
services and materials required to accomplish the ordered action.
   (F)   (1)   The record of the findings made and action taken by the Office
of Code Enforcement hearing shall be available to the public upon request.
      (2)   No provision in this chapter shall be construed to require
affirmative action by the Office of Code Enforcement or the Director to give
notice of the findings made and action taken by the Office of Code Enforcement
at the hearing to the person to whom the order was issued, or any other person.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.22 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   An action for judicial review of any proceedings under this chapter may be
taken pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 18-5-5.5-10.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. Title 18 has been repealed. Similar state law provisions are now
codified in I.C. 36-7-9.
§ 151.23 RECORDING ORDERS, STATEMENTS, AND RECORDS.
   (A)   Orders issued in accordance with §§
151.15 or
151.18 of this chapter, statements of rescission issued in accordance with §
151.19, statements that public bids are to be let as provided in §
151.27, and
records of action taken by the Office of Code Enforcement in accordance with §
151.21, shall be recorded in the Office of the Recorder of the county by the
Office of Code Enforcement at no charge.
   (B)   The effect of orders and administrative acts under this chapter upon
property interests in unsafe premises shall be governed by the provisions of
I.C. 18-5-5.5-11 and 18-5-5.5-12.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. Title 18 has been repealed. Similar state law provisions are now
codified in I.C. 36-7-9.
§ 151.24 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   (A)   If in any instance the Office of Code Enforcement shall find that it
is necessary to take emergency action with reference to an unsafe premises in
order to protect life, safety or property, the office may cause any action as
is necessary to protect life, safety, or property to be performed without
issuing an order or giving notice.
   (B)   (1)   The emergency action shall be limited to removing any immediate
danger.
      (2)   The costs incurred by the Office of Code Enforcement in taking or
having the action taken may be recovered against the persons who have a fee
interest or life estate interest in the unsafe premises by the filing of a
civil action in the circuit or superior court of the county by the town.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.25 RECEIVERS.
   Eligibility for appointment as a receiver for unsafe premises and powers and
other matters concerned with receivership under this chapter shall be governed
by the provisions of I.C. 18-5-5.5-14.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s note:
   I.C. Title 18 has been repealed. Similar state law provisions are now
codified in I.C. 36-7-9.
§ 151.26 PERFORMANCE BY CONTRACTOR; PUBLIC BIDS.
   (A)   The Office of Code Enforcement may cause the action required by an
order to be performed by a contractor if the following has occurred:
      (1)   An order has been issued to each person having a substantial
property interest in the unsafe premises;
      (2)   Service of an order in the manner provided by §
151.20 of this chapter has been made on each person having a substantial
property interest in the unsafe premises which are the subject of the order;
      (3)   Each of the orders have been affirmed or modified at hearing in a
manner that all persons having a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises which are the subject of each of the orders are currently subject to
an order requiring the accomplishment of substantially identical action;
      (4)   The order, as affirmed or modified at the hearing, has not been
complied with, or, having once been complied with, is not now being complied
with; and
      (5)   The order is not being reviewed in accordance with §
151.22 of this chapter.
   (B)   The work shall be let out at public bid to a contractor licensed and
duly qualified under the laws of the state and any applicable municipal
ordinances.
   (C)   All persons with a substantial property interest in the unsafe
building shall be notified about the public bid in accordance with §
151.20 of this chapter by means of a written statement, which shall include the
following information:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order was issued;
      (2)   A legal description or address of the unsafe premises that are the
subject of the order;
      (3)   A statement that a contract is to be let at public bid to a
licensed contractor to accomplish work to comply with the order;
      (4)   A description of work to be accomplished;
      (5)   A statement that both the bid price of the licensed contractor who
accomplishes the work and an amount representing a reasonable estimate of the
cost incurred by the Office of Code Enforcement in processing the matter of the
unsafe premises, may, if not paid, be recorded after a hearing as a lien
against all persons having a fee interest or life estate interest in the unsafe
premises;
      (6)   A statement that the owner has the right to elect in writing within
a period of five calendar days to retain any or all materials salvaged from the
work;
      (7)   The time of the bid opening;
      (8)   The place of the bid opening; and
      (9)   The name, address and telephone number of the Office of Code
Enforcement.
   (D)   (1)   If service of the notice of statement that public bids are to be
let is by publication, the publication shall include the information provided
for in division (C) except that it need only include a general description of
the work to be accomplished.
      (2)   The publication also shall include a statement that a copy of the
statement of public bid may be obtained from the Office of Code Enforcement.
   (E)   Notice of the statement that public bids are to be let shall be given
to all persons having a substantial property interest in the property at least
ten calendar days before the date of the public bid.
   (F)   (1)   Persons having a substantial property interest in the unsafe
premises which are the subject of a statement that public bids are to be let
may, as their interest allows, within a period of five calendar days after they
have received notice of the statement, elect by sending a statement in writing
to the Office of Code Enforcement to retain any or all of the materials
resulting or salvaged from the work.
      (2)   In the absence of a statement, the Office of Code Enforcement may
decide the method of disposal of the materials.
   (G)   If action in accordance with this section is being taken on the basis
of an order which was served by publication, it shall be sufficient to serve
the statement that public bids are to be let by publication unless the Office
of Code Enforcement has received information in writing that would enable it to
make service in accordance with §
151.20 of this chapter by a method other than publication.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980)
§ 151.27 PERFORMANCE BY CONTRACTOR; LIABILITY OF OWNERS; LIEN.
   When action required by an order is performed by a contractor in accordance
with §
151.26 of this chapter, any person or persons who have a fee interest or life
estate interest in the unsafe premises shall be obligated to pay the following
costs:
   (A)   The bid price of work accomplished by the contractor in accordance
with §
151.26 of this chapter.
   (B)   An amount which represents a reasonable forecast of the average
processing expense which will be incurred by the Office of Code Enforcement in
taking all the technical, administrative and legal actions relative to a
typical unsafe premises which are necessary under this chapter so that the
action required by an order may be performed by a contractor in accordance with
§
151.26.
   (C)   The calculation of amounts under this section, and the perfection and
enforcement of liens for those amounts, shall be governed by the provisions of
I.C. 18-5-5.5-16.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s note:
   I.C. Title 18 has been repealed. Similar state law provisions are now
codified in I.C. 36-7-9.
§ 151.28 FUNDS AND FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION.
   All funds and financial administration for the implementation and
administration of this chapter shall be governed by the provisions of I.C. 18-
5-5.5-17 and other applicable state law.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. Title 18 has been repealed. Similar state law provisions are now
codified in I.C. 36-7-9.
§ 151.29 INSPECTION WARRANTS.
   (A)   In those cases in which the owners or those in possession of a
building refuse inspection, an inspection officer in the Office of Code
Enforcement may obtain an inspection warrant from any court
of record in the county in which the building is located in order to determine
if the building is an unsafe building.
   (B)   The court shall issue the warrant subject to, and in accordance with
the provisions of I.C. 18-5-5.5-18.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. Title 18 has been repealed. Similar state law provisions are now
codified in I.C. 36-7-9.
§ 151.30 CIVIL ACTION BY TOWN.
   The town may initiate a civil action with regard to unsafe premises for the
purpose of accomplishing the objectives and purposes of this chapter and P.L.
181, Acts 1973. The civil action shall be governed by the provisions of I.C.
18-5-5.5-19.
(Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. Title 18 has been repealed. Similar state law provisions are now
codified in I.C. 36-7-9.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   VACATED PREMISES
      
III
.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   FUNDS
      
V.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
VI.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
VII.   COUNTY ORDINANCES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1976-I   2-4-1976    Annexing the property as described and zoning the
                     territory
1976-3   6-23-1976   Annexing the property as described and zoning the
                     territory
1982-6   10-18-1982  Annexing the property as described and zoning the
                     territory
1986-3   4-21-1986   Annexing the property as described and zoning the
                     territory
1998-1   1-20-1998   Annexing the property as described and zoning the
                     territory
2004-2   6-7-2004    Annexing the property as described
2007-2   7-16-2007   Annexing the property as described
                    
 
TABLE II: VACATED PREMISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1986-5B  8-18-1986   Alleyway described is to be vacated and closed
2006-2   5-15-2006   Rights-of-way under the sewage plant
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorization of Connersville Cable Television, Inc. to
1982-2   1-4-1982    operate, construct and maintain a cable television
                     transmission system throughout the town
                     Granting the right to Ohio Valley Gas Corporation to
                     maintain a gas distribution system and to lay, extend,
1988-2   11-7-1988   maintain, operate, repair and remove mains and pipe in,
                     through, or under the streets, alleys, public grounds and
                     public places of the town
                     Acceptance of the terms and conditions of Ord. No. 1988-
1988-2   8-1-1989    2 granting to Ohio Valley Gas Corporation the right to
                     maintain a gas distribution system
 
TABLE IV: FUNDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
—      - -         Creation of a Cumulative Capitol Improvement Fund
1973-3   4-17-1973   Creation of a Revenue Sharing Fund
1974-5   6-19-1974   Creation of the Cash Reserve Fund in the Town's Water
                     Utility
1994-2   6-20-1994   Creation of the Compost Fund
95                  Discontinuance of the Water Bond and Interest Fund and
                     changing the Depreciation Fund
1999-1   7-19-1999   Establishment of Sidewalk Replacement Trust Fund
1999-2   9-7-1999    Discontinuance of the Sewer Bond and Interest Fund and
                     creation of the Sewer Depreciation Fund
1999-4   11-15-1999  Establishment of Downtown Renovation Fund
2000-3   7-24-2000   Establishment of SRF DW19911401 Fund
2000-4   7-24-2000   Establishment of DOC GRANT#99-218 Fund
2000-5   8-7-2000    Establishment of a Restricted Donation Fund
2002-1   3-18-2002   Establishment of the Town of Liberty Promotional Fund
2003-2   6-16-2003   Establishment of the Fire Department Building Fund
2003-5   10-20-2003  Establishment of the Riverboat Fund
2004-1   2-19-2004   Establishment of the Rainy Day Fund
                    
 
TABLE V: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Res. — 2-11-1969   Allowance of the introduction of fluorides into the
                     drinking water of the town
1974-3   5-15-1974   Request of the Indiana Stream Control of Pollution to
                     exclude the town from the Brookville Lake Waste District
—      12-1-1980   Agreement between the town and Public Service Company of
                     Indiana, Inc. for street lighting service
                     Approval of the form and terms of the loan agreement,
                     indenture of trust, and economic development revenue
1981-7   5-4-1981    bonds, and authorizing the execution thereof, and
                     approving the resolution of the Liberty Economic
                     Development Commission relating to the John T. Hinton,
                     D.O. Project
1985-3   5-6-1985    Approval of street lighting contract with Public Service
                     Company of Indiana, Inc.
                     Agreement between five townships and town establishing
2011-1   8-1-2011    lifting assistance fee for Liberty Volunteer Fire
                     Department assistance.
                     Agreement between five townships and town establishing
2012-8   9-4-2012    fire protection fees for Liberty Volunteer Fire Department
                     assistance.
                    
 
TABLE VI: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1994-4   11-21-1994  Establishment of the name of street in Wil-Mar Addition
                    
 
TABLE VII: COUNTY ORDINANCES
 
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Regulating construction, alteration, equipment, use,
1996-2      2-7-2005    occupancy, and location of buildings and structures in
                        the town
VI-101-3-02 - -2005     Repealing Section 9 of Ord. 1996-2 and setting forth
                        permit fees
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to County Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                     Code Section
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
4-21.5-3-7                    150.34
5-22                          30.02
7.1-3-1 et seq.               110.01
8-23-4                        93.07
9-13-2-1                      93.02
9-13-2-8                      93.02
9-13-2-16                     93.02
9-13-2-63                     93.02
9-13-2-121                    93.02
9-13-2-122                    93.02
9-13-2-136                    93.02
9-13-2-179                    93.02
9-13-2-196(c)                 93.02
9-17                          93.02
9-18-2                        93.02
9-18-2.5                      93.02
9-18-12                       93.03
9-18.1                        93.02
9-18.1-8                      93.03
9-18.1-14                     93.02
9-18.1-14.5                   93.02
9-18.5-34                     93.03
9-22                          93.02
9-22-1-1                      93.03
9-22-1-2                      93.02
9-22-1-3                      93.02
9-22-1-4                      93.04
9-22-1-5                      93.05
9-22-1-6                      93.05
9-22-1-7                      93.05
9-22-1-8                      93.05
9-22-1-9                      93.05
9-22-1-11                     93.07
9-22-1-12                     93.07
9-22-1-13                     93.07
9-22-1-14                     93.07
9-22-1-15                     93.06
9-22-1-16(a)                  93.06
9-22-1-16(b)                  93.06
9-22-1-17                     93.06
9-22-1-18                     93.07
9-22-1-19                     93.08
9-22-1-31                     93.09
9-22-1-32                     93.10
                              93.02,
9-22-6                        93.04,
                              93.08
9-32                          93.02
18-5-5.5-1 et seq. (repealed) 151.01
18-5-5.5-7 (repealed)         151.19
18-5-5.5-10 (repealed)        151.22
18-5-5.5-11 (repealed)        151.23
18-5-5.5-12 (repealed)        151.23
18-5-5.5-14 (repealed)        151.25
18-5-5.5-16 (repealed)        151.27
18-5-5.5-17 (repealed)        151.28
18-5-5.5-18 (repealed)        151.29
18-5-5.5-19 (repealed)        151.30
22-9-1-4 et seq.              92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.              92.01
22-9.5-2-2—22-9.5-2-13      92.02
22-9.5-2-10 (repealed)        92.02
22-9.5-2-10(b) (repealed)     92.02
22-9.5-3                      92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.              92.09
22-9.5-4-8                    92.10
22-9.5-5                      92.02
22-9.5-5-1                    92.03
22-9.5-6                      92.02,
                              92.10
22-11-14-6                    91.11
22-13-2-7                     150.34
22-15-3-1                     150.15
24-14-5                       93.05
31-6-4-15.7 (repealed)        130.02
31-37-3-2(a)                  130.02
31-37-3-3(a)                  130.02
31-37-3-3.5(a)                130.02
31-37-3-3.5(b)                130.02
31-37-19-27                   130.02
34-28-5                       30.15
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               10.99,
                              52.999
36-1-5-4                      150.20, 150.21
36-1-5-4                      30.45
36-1-6-2                      52.999,
                              94.02
36-1-6-4                      52.999
36-1-20.2                     30.45
36-1-21                       30.45
36-4-6-11                     30.45
36-4-6-12                     30.45
36-5-2-4.1                    30.01
36-5-2-5                      30.01
36-5-2-9.4                    30.45
                              151.01,
                              151.19,
                              151.22,
36-7-9                        151.23,
                              151.25,
                              151.27—
                              151.30
36-7-10.1                     94.02
36-8-3-20                     30.25
36-9-23-31                    50.08
36-9-30-3                     93.07
                              
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed  Code Section
—      2-11-1969      T.S.O. V
                       
 
REFERENCES TO COUNTY ORDINANCES
 
County Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1996-2          2-7-2005    T.S.O. VII
VI-101-3-02     - -2005     T.S.O. VII
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
—             - -         T.S.O. IV
—             3-11-1929   94.30—
                            94.37
1931-1          8-17-1931   130.03
—             2-3-1938    91.11
—             7-1-1941    Chapter 75, Schedule II
—             7-9-1941    70.02
—             7-9-1941    71.01
                            53.100,
                            53.205,
5               11-2-1950   53.300,
                            53.302,
                            53.901
12              8-5-1954    110.02
18              3-23-1960   52.407
20              12-5-1962   11.01
22              7-1-1964    T.S.O. I
1972-10         7-26-1972   110.01
1973-I          3-7-1973    72.01
1973-2          3-7-1973    110.02
1973-3          4-17-1973   T.S.O. IV
1974-I          1-16-1974   Chapter 74, Schedule I
1974-3          5-15-1974   T.S.O. V
1974-5          6-19-1974   T.S.O. IV
1976-I          2-4-1976    T.S.O. I
1976-3          6-23-1976   T.S.O. I
1978-4          10-4-1978   72.18
1978-5          11-1-1978   91.01—
                            91.09
1979-2          3-21-1979   90.01
                            151.01,
1980-5          6-16-1980   151.02,
                            151.15—
                            151.30
—             12-1-1980   T.S.O. V
1981-7          5-4-1981    T.S.O. V
1981-13         10-15-1981  53.505,
                            53.912
1982-2          1-4-1982    T.S.O. III
1982-6          10-18-1982  T.S.O. I
1983-4          8-15-1983   90.02
1985-2          8-5-1985    70.01
1985-3          5-6-1985    T.S.O. V
1986-3          4-21-1986   T.S.O. I
1986-5          6-16-1986   130.01
1986-5B         8-18-1986   T.S.O. II
1987-2          5-18-1987   Chapter 74, Schedule I
1987-6          12-7-1987   31.02
1988-2          8-1-1989    T.S.O. III
1988-2          11-7-1988   T.S.O. III
1988-3          11-21-1988  30.15
1989-4          6-5-1989    Chapter 75, Schedule I
1989-6          8-28-1989   11.02
1989-7          8-28-1989   130.02
1990-2          2-5-1990    Chapter 74, Schedule II
                            52.200,
1990-5          7-23-1990   52.211—
                            52.213
1992-4          12-21-1992  31.01
1993-3          6-21-1993   90.01,
                            90.99
93-5            7-20-1993   30.25
1994-1          2-7-1994    53.207,
                            53.999
1994-2          6-20-1994   T.S.O. IV
1994-3          10-3-1994   Chapter 74, Schedule III
1994-4          11-21-1994  T.S.O. VI
1994-5          11-21-1994  T.S.O. IV
                            95.15—
1995-1A         1-23-1995   95.20,
                            95.99
                            53.501—
95-3            2-20-1995   53.504,
                            53.900
                            72.15—
95-4            6-19-1995   72.17,
                            72.99
1995-5          11-6-1995   T.S.O. IV
1996-1          2-5-1996    52.213
1996-2          3-18-1996   91.10,
                            91.99
1996-3          7-15-1996   53.501
1996-4          8-5-1996    30.01
                            150.15—
                            150.20,
1996-5          10-1-1996   150.30—
                            150.35,
                            150.99
1998-1          1-20-1998   T.S.O. I
1998-3          4-6-1998    30.16
1998-4          4-6-1998    90.03,
                            90.99
1998-6          8-3-1998    30.02
1998-8          12-28-1998  92.01—
                            92.10
1999-1          7-19-1999   T.S.O. IV
1999-2          9-7-1999    T.S.O. IV
1999-4          11-15-1999  T.S.O. IV
2000-2          2-21-2000   52.401—
                            52.406
2000-3          7-24-2000   T.S.O. IV
2000-4          7-24-2000   T.S.O. IV
2000-5          8-7-2000    T.S.O. IV
                            90.15—
2001-1          7-16-2001   90.22,
                            90.99
2002-1          3-18-2002   T.S.O. IV
2002-2          5-30-2002   52.300—
                            52.306
2003-2          6-16-2003   T.S.O. IV
2003-3          9-8-2003    Adopting Ordinance
2003-5          10-20-2003  T.S.O. IV
2004-1          2-19-2004   T.S.O. IV
2004-2          6-7-2004    T.S.O. I
                            53.501—
2004-6          12-20-2004  53.504,
                            53.506,
                            53.900
2006-1          2-20-2006   31.03
2006-2          5-15-2006   T.S.O. II
                            53.501—
2006-3          9-25-2006   53.504,
                            53.506,
                            53.900
2007-1          5-7-2007    52.402
2007-2          7-16-2007   T.S.O. I
2007-8          12-17-2007  130.02
2008-1          4-7-2008    53.504
2009-2          5-4-2009    52.401—
                            52.409
                            76.01—
2010-3          9-20-2010   76.04,
                            76.98,
                            76.99
                            52.500—
2010-4          12-6-2010   52.504,
                            52.506,
                            52.507
2011-1          8-1-2011    T.S.O. V
2011-2          6-13-2011   53.208
                            53.501—
2012-01         2-6-2012    53.504,
                            53.506,
                            53.900
2012-5          6-18-2012   30.45
2012-7          7-23-2012   91.11
2012-8          9-4-2012    T.S.O. V
2013-2          8-19-2013   52.409
2015-5          9-21-2015   70.01,
                            70.02
2017-6          5-15-2017   Ch. 74, Schedule I
2017-9          8-21-2017   94.01—
                            94.10
Am. Ord. 2017-9 11-5-2018   94.09
                            96.01—
2018-3          8-20-2018   96.03,
                            96.99
2018-5          8-20-2018   31.01
2018-8          11-19-2018  54.01—
                            54.07
2019-1          5-20-2019   94.10
2019-2          5-20-2019   31.04,
                            31.05
2019-3          8-19-2019   72.19
                            52.100—
                            52.105,
                            52.200—
                            52.213,
                            52.300—
2019-5          10-21-2019  52.306,
                            52.400—
                            52.409,
                            52.500—
                            52.508,
                            52.999
2019-9          12-2-2019   55.01
                            53.100—
                            53.106,
                            53.200—
                            52.210,
                            53.300—
                            53.307,
2019-10         12-2-2019   53.400—
                            53.410,
                            53.501—
                            53.506,
                            53.900—
                            53.913,
                            52.999
2021-8          12-6-2021   31.06
2023-1          3-6-2023    52.410,
                            53.914
2023-3          4-3-2023    52.407
2023-4          6-5-2023    50.01—
                            50.12
                            110.01,
2023-6          6-5-2023    110.02,
                            150.01—
                            150.03
2023-8          9-5-2023    52.406
2024-1          2-5-2024    52.411
2024-2          2-5-2024    55.01
                            73.01—
2024-3          3-18-2024   73.11,
                            73.99
2024-5          4-1-2024    53.208
2024-6          5-6-2024    Ch. 75, Sch. I
2024-7          5-20-2024   94.06
2024-8          8-5-2024    91.11
2024-9          8-5-2024    94.10
                            54.01,
2024-10         8-5-2024    54.08—
                            54.10
                            95.01—
                            95.06,
2024-11         8-5-2024    95.15—
                            95.20,
                            95.99
                           
 
 
