CITY OF LINTON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-9, current through:
Ordinance 2025-02, passed 5-12-2025; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2025 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF LINTON, INDIANA
CITY COUNCIL
CITY COUNCIL
MAYOR     John Preble
          
PRESIDENT Tony Richards
MEMBER    Linda Bedwell
MEMBER    Greg Sapp
MEMBER    Les Newman
MEMBER    Ed Singleton
 
 
CITYOFFICIALS
CITY CLERK-TREASURER Claudia Walker
CITY ATTORNEY        Sam Drummy
POLICE CHIEF         Paul Clark
FIRE CHIEF           Eric Carpenter
 
CONTACT INFORMATION
City of Linton
86 South Main Street
Linton IN 47441
Tel.: (812) 847-7754
Fax: (812) 847-7014
E-mail: jpreble@cityofclinton.in.gov
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE # 2008-03
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF LINTON, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING,
CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH
SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into on ordinances in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF LINTON, INDIANA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Linton, Indiana."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   SEE ATTACHED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and preordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or
   LINTON, INDIANA
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.   Government Officials
   31.   City Organizations
   32.   City Policies
   33.   Finances and Fees
   34.   Airport
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50.   General Utility Provisions
   51.   Gas
   52.   Sanitation Utility; Garbage
   53.   Water Utility
   54.   Electricity Utility
   55.   Sewer
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   70.   Traffic Regulations
   71.   Parking Rules
   72.   Bikes and Recreational Vehicles
   73.   Traffic Schedules
   74.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.   Animals
   91.   Fire Prevention
   92.   Fair Housing
   93.   Streets and Sidewalks; Excavations in Public Places
   94.   Health, Sanitation; Nuisances
   95.   Parks and Recreation
   96.   Cemeteries
   97.   Trees, Shrubs and Weeds
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110.   General Licensing Procedures
   111.   Transient Vendors
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   130.   General Offenses
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150.   Building Regulations; Construction
   151.   Flood Hazard Areas
   152.   Mobile Homes
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   I.   Contracts
   II.   Annexation
   III.   Employee Provisions
   IV.   Funds
   V.   Vacating Streets or Property
   VI.   Boundaries
   VII.   Miscellaneous
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
   INDEX
detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to
certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of
bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or
personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land
to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public
places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political Subdivision is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this         day of                            , 20        .
ADOPTED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LINTON, INDIANA, THIS 14th DAY OF
April 2008, AT 7:00 pm
            
TOMMY L. JONES, MAYOR                  CITY COUNCIL
CITY OF LINTON                           CITY OF LINTON, INDIANA
Tommy L Jones /s/
                                                                              
                                       PRESIDENT
                                       Tony Richards /s/
                                       COUNCIL MEMBER
                                       Jerry Ellett /s/
                                       COUNCIL MEMBER
                                       Linda D Bedwell /s/
                                       COUNCIL MEMBER
                                       Charles Cox /s/
                                       COUNCIL MEMBER
ATTEST:
B. Jack Shelton /s/
B. JACK SHELTON, CLERK-TREASURER
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   10.01   Title of code
   10.02   Interpretation
   10.03   Application to future ordinances
   10.04   Construction of code
   10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   10.06   Severability
   10.07   Reference to other sections
   10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   10.09   Errors and omissions
   10.10   Reasonable time
   10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   10.12   Limitation periods
   10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the "Linton
Code of Ordinances," for which designation "Code of Ordinances," "Codified
Ordinances," or "Code" may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY CLERK-TREASURER. The City Clerk-Treasurer of the City Council.
      COUNCIL. The City Council.
      COUNTY. Greene.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed
1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
   
30.   GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
   
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
   
32.   CITY POLICIES
   
33.   FINANCES AND FEES
   
34.   AIRPORT
   
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
   
36.   CITY DISTRICTS
   
37.   CREDIT CARD USE AND CONTROL POLICY
   
38.   AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT TRANSITION PLAN
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Section
   
30.01   Violations Clerk
   
30.02   Reserve Police Force
   
30.03   Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
§ 30.01 VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   (A)   There is hereby established for the City of Linton, Indiana, the
position to be known as Violations Clerk for the City of Linton. The Mayor of
the City of Linton shall have the power to appoint one or more persons to the
position of Violations Clerk.
   (B)   The Violations Clerk shall have the power to accept the payment of
fines tendered by any person cited for violations of any city ordinance when
the ordinance provides for the payment of the fine to the City Violations
Clerk. The Violations Clerk shall keep a record of all receipts paid to the
Violations Clerk and shall periodically, at the request of the Clerk-Treasurer
of the City of Linton, pay over the General Fund of the City of Linton all
receipts that have been collected from the payment of the fines and penalties,
provided, however; that any fines or penalties that are paid pursuant to an
ordinance, which ordinance provides for the disposition of the fine to a fund
other than the General Fund of the City of Linton, the Violations Clerk shall
segregate the funds, and upon payment of the same to the Clerk-Treasurer of the
City of Linton, shall designate which fund to which the payments are to be
made.
(Ord. 80-11, passed 3-27-1980)
§ 30.02 RESERVE POLICE FORCE.
   There is hereby established a reserve Police Department for the City of
Linton, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20, and that the maximum number of police
reserves shall be no more than three.
(Ord. 80-22, passed 8-14-1980)
§ 30.03 DEPUTY CLERK-TREASURER.
   There is hereby established for the City of Linton the position of Deputy
Clerk-Treasurer, pursuant to I.C. 36-5-6-7. The position of Deputy Clerk-
Treasurer is directly responsible to and serves under the Clerk-Treasurer of
the City of Linton in maintaining the duties of the elected position.
(Ord. 2013-4, passed 04-08-2013)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Department of Economic Development; Economic Development Commission
   
31.02   Fire Department training classes
   
31.03   Five-member legislative body
   
31.04   Department of Public Parks
   
31.05   Advisory Planning Commission
   
31.06   Department of Redevelopment
§ 31.01 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-4, the Council finds it necessary to create a
body with the powers to finance economic development or pollution control
facilities under the Act, and hereby establishes the City of Linton Department
of Economic Development (the Department). The Department is established to
exercise the powers set forth in the Act or otherwise granted by law. Pursuant
to I.C. 36-7-12-5(d), the Department will be controlled by a board of five
members to be known as the City of Linton Economic Development Commission (the
Commission), consisting of three members to be selected by the Mayor, one
member nominated by the Council and one member nominated by the Greene County
Council, all of which shall be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption by the Council in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 99-1, passed 5-25-1999)
§ 31.02 FIRE DEPARTMENT TRAINING CLASSES.
   (A)   Establishing approval of training classes for firefighters, such as
for firefighting, E.M.T., safety classes, paramedic training with the approval
of the Fire Chief, Mayor, and Board of Works of the City of Linton. The city
will pay for the classes, time, and transportation to the classes if so
approved and permission given by the mentioned afore persons by verbal or
written orders.
   (B)   This order will be in force retroactive back to January 10, 1894.
   (C)   This section shall be in force and effect as aforementioned and after
passage by Common Council of the City of Linton and the Mayor.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 31.03 FIVE-MEMBER LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   (A)   The City of Linton, Indiana, hereby adopts the procedure set out in
I.C. 36-4-6-5 for the establishment of a five-member governing body.
   (B)   The legislative body shall be composed of five members elected from
districts established under division (C) below.
   (C)   (1)   The legislative body shall divide the city into five districts
that:
         (a)   Are composed of contiguous territory;
         (b)   Are reasonably compact; and
         (c)   Contain, as nearly as possible, equal population.
      (2)   This division shall be made in 1982 and then every ten years
thereafter.
   (D)   Each voter of the City of Linton may vote for one candidate. The
candidates receiving the most votes in their respective districts are elected
to the legislative body.
   (E)   This section shall take effect and be in force on and after its
passage and approval by the Mayor and Common Council of the City of Linton,
Indiana.
(Ord. 82-15, passed 8-10-1982)
§ 31.04 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC PARKS.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Department of Public Parks for the
City of Linton under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-4.
   (B)   This section be in full force and effect from the date of its passage
and approval by the Mayor and Common Council of the City of Linton, Indiana.
(Ord. 80-7, passed 3-13-1980)
§ 31.05 ADVISORY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created and established a City of
Linton Planning Commission, which has all of the powers and duties authorized
under the laws of the state of Indiana, including those set forth in I.C. 36-7-
4 et seq., and the members of the Commission are charged with all of the duties
and responsibilities set forth under the laws of the state of Indiana.
   (B)   Membership. The membership of the City of Linton Advisory Planning
Commission shall be in accordance with the laws of the state. The official
members are hereby designated to be: three members to be appointed by the
Common Council from person in the city government, the term of such appointed
members to be coexistent with the term of office for which he or she has been
elected or appointed; and four citizen members to be appointed by the Mayor, no
more than two of whom shall be of the same political party. Two of the citizen
members shall be appointed for a term of three years to expire on the first
Monday of January of the third year after their appointment; and the remaining
two shall be appointed for a term of four years to expire the first Monday of
January on the fourth year following their appointment. Thereafter, as terms
expire, each new appointment shall be for a term of four years.
   (C)   Election of officers, powers and duties. It shall be the duty of the
City Planning Commission to organize ad elect one of its members as
Chairperson, one of its members as Vice-Chairperson and one of its members as
Secretary. The City Planning Commission shall hold hearings for the purpose of
recommending to the Common Council the adoption of ordinances regulating the
use of land, sanitary and safety standards, building and safety standards, fire
prevention and safety standards, and all other uses of land that affect the
health, safety, and welfare of citizens. This authority shall not be construed
as a limitation on the City Planning Commission, but the Planning Commission
shall have authority to make recommendations as may be authorized by the laws
of the state.
   (D)   Meetings. It shall be the duty of the City Planning Commission to hold
regular meetings, keeping regular minutes of those meetings in accordance with
the laws of the state of Indiana.
   (E)   Extraterritorial authority. By the laws of the state of Indiana, the
City of Linton, through its City of Linton Advisory Planning Commission, ad the
City Planning Commission, hereby exercise their extraterritorial authority two
miles outside the contiguous boundaries of the city.
   (F)   Quorum. Four members of the City of Linton Planning Commission shall
constitute quorum to do business.
(Ord. 2006-09, passed 10-9-2006)
§ 31.06 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. The Common Council of the City of Linton, in the best
interest of Linton, Indiana, and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity
for rehabilitation, redevelopment, or economic development of areas by private
enterprise, hereby create and establish a Department of Redevelopment with all
the powers set forth in IC 36-7-14 and IC 36-7-25 (the "Act'').
   (B)   Members. The Department of Redevelopment will be controlled by a board
of five members known as the Linton Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   District. All of the territory within the boundaries of the City of
Linton will be a taxing district to be known as the Redevelopment District of
Linton for the purpose of levying and collecting special benefit taxes for
redevelopment purposes as provided in the Act. All of the taxable property
within this special taxing district will be considered to be benefited by the
redevelopment projects and economic development projects carried out under the
Act.
   (D)   All other orders, ordinances, resolutions or parts thereof in conflict
with the provision and the intent of this ordinance are hereby repealed.
   (E)   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage by the Mayor and the Common Council for the City of Linton.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 8-12-2013)
CHAPTER 32: CITY POLICIES
Section
   32.01   Travel milage rate and per diem
   32.02   Payment; Board allowance
   
32.03   Use of city equipment by the public
   32.04   City vehicles and employees; city limits
   32.05   Drugs and alcohol policy
§ 32.01 TRAVEL MILAGE RATE AND PER DIEM.
   (A)   (1)   Travel paid per mile: $0.585 per mile.
      (2)   Per diem for meals: $25 per day.
   (B)   This section shall take effect and be in force on and after its
passage and approval by the Mayor and Common Council for the City of Linton,
Indiana.
(Ord. 2005-20, passed 12-12-2005; Am. Ord. 2008-06, passed 7-14-08)
§ 32.02 PAYMENT; BOARD ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer may make claim payments in advance of Council
allowance for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll; and
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses must be supported by a fully itemized claim.
The City Council shall review and allow the claims at its next regular or
special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expenses.
   (C)   This section shall be in full effect from and after its passage and
approval by the Mayor and the Common Council for the City of Linton, Indiana.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 7-13-1992)
§ 32.03 USE OF CITY EQUIPMENT BY THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   Upon approval by the Mayor, for the requested use of the city
equipment being used for the betterment of the city, it may be used with the
permission and guidelines set forth by the Mayor, such as for use by the Little
League, Scouts, churches, and for general cleanup around city properties as
long as there is a qualified operator from the city accompanying the equipment
and if it by chance breaks down, the person or persons getting the benefit of
use would be responsible for the repair of or replacement of the similar
equipment be replaced at his, her, or its expense.
   (B)   This section shall be in effect as mentioned above and after passage
by the Common Council of the City of Linton.
(Ord. 88-11, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 32.04 CITY VEHICLES AND EMPLOYEES; CITY LIMITS.
   (A)    City owned vehicles and employees of the City of Linton and its
utilities, for the safety and convenience of the several citizens and
inhabitants of the City of Linton, should remain within the city limits during
regular employment and duty hours unless required to be out of the city limits
to build, repair or maintain utilities or to carry out other directed duties or
to answer a fire call placed with the Fire Department under the contract with
Stockton Township or in cooperation with the existing reciprocal agreements
with other cities and towns, or, with reference to the Police Department, if
they are in pursuit of a lawbreaker or cooperating in a fire call, or if in the
line of duty they are ordered out of the city limits by their department head
or by the Mayor.
   (B)   No city vehicle or city employee during working hours for the City of
Linton shall leave the city limits unless in the line of duty, including fire
calls for the firefighters and police officers and for police officers in
pursuit, or at the direction of their department head or the Mayor.
(Ord. 396, passed 6-13-1972)
§ 32.05 DRUGS AND ALCOHOL POLICY.
   (A)   Introduction. It is the policy of the City of Linton to provide a safe
working environment for all city employees, inclusive of safety sensitive
positions, employees who drive city vehicles or drive their own vehicle for
city business, and for fire and law enforcement personnel. It is also this
city's policy to assist employees who have a problem with drug and alcohol
abuse. Our goal is to eliminate the abuse, not to eliminate the abuser. Our
goal is to help, not apprehend.
   (B)   Pre-employment screen policy. As a final step in the employment
process, all applicants who are conditionally considered for employment and
those former employees who are to be reinstated for employment after layoff or
a leave absence will be required to submit to a drug screen test. For any
employee who transfers to a department where drug testing is required to have
testing performed, and any employee who is promoted to a department where drug
testing is required, and where having a positive drug test result will have the
promotion withdrawn, drug and alcohol rehabilitation will be offered at the
employee's expense. Refusal to submit to any drug and alcohol test shall result
in denial of employment. If the applicant or former employee tests positive,
employment or re-employment will be denied.
   (C)   The purpose of the policy.
      (1)   To establish and maintain a safe and healthful working environment
for all employees;
      (2)   To ensure the reputation for the city and its employees within the
community;
      (3)   To reduce the number of accidental injuries to persons or property;
      (4)   To reduce absenteeism, tardiness, and improve productivity; and
      (5)   To provide rehabilitation information assistance for any employee
who seeks such help.
      (6)   To comply with the United States Drug-Free Work Place Act.
      (7)   The city regrets any inconvenience or problems that the policy may
cause, but believes that the overall benefit to the city and the employees make
it both necessary and helpful.
   (D)   General policy. The following is the city's policy concerning
substance abuse, which will be enforced uniformly with respect to all
employees, as indicated.
      (1)   All employees are prohibited from being under the influence of
alcohol or illegal drugs during work hours.
      (2)   The manufacture, use, misuse, abuse, sale, possession, transfer, or
purchase of illegal drugs or controlled substances on or in the city property
or while on duty or performing city business is prohibited and will subject the
employee to immediately being terminated.
      (3)   Any employee who commits an unlawful act involving illegal drugs,
alcohol, or controlled substances on or off city premises or whose conduct
discredits the city in any way, will be immediately terminated.
      (4)   No alcoholic beverage will be brought or consumed on the job site.
Employees may be tested randomly, post-accident, or for probable cause, at the
discretion of the city. Anyone with a BAC of .02 to .0399 will be considered
positive.
      (5)   No prescription drug will be brought onto city premises by any
person other than the one for whom it is prescribed. Such drugs will be used
only in the manner, combination, and quantity prescribed.
      (6)   As a continuing condition of employment, each employee agrees to
abide by the terms of this policy. Employees shall notify the city of any drug
conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction involving alcohol, illegal
drugs, or controlled substances no later then five days after conviction. The
city will subject the employee to the same disciplinary procedures as those
employees who test positive under drug screening procedures.
   (E)   Testing. All employees will be required to submit to a drug screen
test as a condition of employment:
      (1)   Each employee will be tested for drugs and alcohol:
         (a)   After a work-related accident;
         (b)   If the employee has been observed using substances that are
suspected to be prohibited substances on the job;
         (c)   If the employee exhibits a significant and prolonged reduction
in productivity;
         (d)   If the city has reasonable cause for testing the employee. The
city may perform baseline testing on all employees, or by department at any
given time.
      (2)   Each employee will be tested for drugs and alcohol when such
employee is involved in a vehicular accident. The test should be done as soon
as possible following the accident.
      (3)   The city may conduct random drug and alcohol testing of employees
at any time with or without cause or suspicion in order to assure compliance
with its drug-free work place policy.
      (4)   An employee returning from a leave of absence may be required to
retest.
      (5)   An employee who alters a specimen, or who fails or refuses to
submit to testing when requested to do so, shall be subject to immediate
termination.
   (F)   Employee testing positive. Employees who test positive are subject to
immediate disciplinary action including termination, but may be allowed to
continue employment on conditions based on the following terms:
      (1)   The employee agrees to participate in counseling in a certified
rehabilitation program and successfully completes the program.
      (2)   The employee agrees to and does remain drug and alcohol free during
the conditional employment period.
      (3)   The employee agrees to routine, periodic, and unscheduled drug
screening and alcohol tests to ensure that the employee remains drug and
alcohol free.
      (4)   The cost of a rehabilitation program and subsequent drug tests (six
during a calendar year) will be payable by the employee.
      (5)   A second positive test will be grounds for immediate termination.
      (6)   All positive test results will remain in your personnel file as
long as the city employs you.
   (G)   Prescription drugs. Employees taking prescription drugs must adhere to
the following procedure:
      (1)   (a)   If you are taking any prescription medication that may affect
your ability to perform your duties and work responsibilities, you must notify
the immediate supervisor prior to the commencement of the work shift. Warning
labels normally appear on the prescription bottle and state exactly what, if
any, side affects there may be. As an example, and not meant as a limitation,
“May cause drowsiness,” “May cause dizziness,” “May cause periodic nausea,”
“Use caution while operating machinery,” “Use caution when driving,” or any
other warning, caution, or description of side affects that will affect your
ability to perform your work duties must be disclosed before you begin your
work shift so that your work responsibilities may be assigned or reassigned to
take into account your medical condition. You are not required to state the
name of the medication, the doctor who prescribed it, or the reason it has been
prescribed, in accordance with the Patient Privacy Laws under HIPAA (Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act), and all applicable Indiana
Privacy Laws.
         (b)   The only time that you may be asked to identify what medication
(s) you are taking is during reasonable assessment of a serious reaction to the
medication, during medical treatment for an accident or injury, or for purposes
of determining what medication was prescribed to you after a drug or alcohol
test has been performed and a positive result would require reprimand or
disciplinary action. At that time, you will be asked privately, by the testing
agent or agency, what, if any, prescription medication you are currently
taking, and you will be required to show proof that the prescription medication
was prescribed to you.
      (2)   Carry the medication in the original prescription container with no
more than the necessary dosage required for the work shift. Your pharmacist
will provide you with an extra empty bottle upon request so that you will not
be susceptible to criminal charges for transporting medication in a non-
prescribed container.
      (3)   Failure to abide by the provision of this division on prescription
drugs shall subject the employee to disciplinary action, including termination.
   (H)   Police/fire department.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer or firefighter exposed to drugs in the
line of duty should immediately notify the superior officer. Any officer who is
under cover, and whose identity may be compromised by presenting for testing,
or who may be involved in a drug-related investigation, will be exempt from
this policy, but only during the period of time such officer is performing
under cover duties.
      (2)   However, when practicable, if the under cover officer is not
involved in a narcotics-related investigation, and identity will not be
compromised, mere status as “under cover” does not preclude officers from being
tested if probable cause exists that the officer is misusing, manufacturing,
selling, trafficking in, purchasing, using, or abusing drugs or alcohol.
   (I)   Further policy provisions.
      (1)   All employees who test positive for drugs and/or alcohol, which
includes preemployment testing, probable cause testing, random testing, and
post-accident testing, shall be responsible for the cost of the test, including
any (GCMS) conformation testing.
      (2)   Any employee who tests positive and is sent for substance abuse
professional evaluation, shall be required to pay for the return to duty tests.
The cost of follow-up testing requested by the Department of Transportation
and/or the city will be paid for by the employee and shall be deducted from the
employee's paycheck.
      (3)   The city will pay for all drug and alcohol tests performed
concluding with a negative result.
   (J)   Drug and alcohol addendum and employee acknowledgment. The Drug and
Alcohol Addendum and Employee Acknowledgment attached to the drug and alcohol
policy are incorporated by reference herein and copies of the same are in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 95-12, passed 9-11-1995; Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES AND FEES
Section
   
33.01   Fixed asset capitalization policy
   
33.02   Rules, application form and fee; community building
   
33.03   Increase rental fees; Girl Scout Cabin and shelter houses
   
33.04   Re-establish Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
33.05   Materiality policy for misappropriation of public funds
   
33.06   Uniform internal control standards
§ 33.01 FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   Land. This city will capitalize all land purchases, regardless
of cost. Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchased outright as
easements or rights-of-way for infrastructure. A department will record donated
land at fair market value on the date of transfer plus any associated costs.
      (2)   Machinery and equipment. This city will capitalize items with an
individual value equal to or greater than $750. Machinery combined with other
machinery to form one unit with total value greater than $750 will be counted
as one unit. Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Total costs exceeds $750;
         (b)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
         (c)   The total costs will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (3)   Buildings.
         (a)   A department will capitalize buildings at full cost. A
department’s new building will be capitalized only if it meets the following
conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
            2.   The useful life is extended to two or more years; and
            3.   The total costs will be greater than the current book value
and less than the fair market value.
         (b)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value
on the date of transfer plus any associated costs.
      (4)   Improvements other than buildings.
           (a)   The definition of this group is improvement to land for better
enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, and will have a life expectancy of
greater than two years. Examples are walks, parking areas, drives and other
similar items. Improvements do not include roads, streets, or assets that are
of value only to the public. For example, Main Street is a public street with
greatest value to the public. Roads or drives upon city-owned land that provide
support to the facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for public
enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement and is not capitalized. However,
sidewalks installed upon city-owned land for use by the public and for the
support of the facility are capital assets. The city will capitalize new
improvements other than buildings only if it meets the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
            2.   The useful life is greater than two years.
         (b)   A department will capitalize improvements or renovations to
existing improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the
following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
             2.   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
            3.   The total costs will be greater than the current book value
and less than the fair market value.
   (B)    The city and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Towns
Accounting Manual. The cost of property, plant and equipment includes all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the city and its departments, the
valuation of assets shall be based on historical cost or where the historical
cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in existence. The city’s
municipally owned utilities shall record a acquisition of fixed assets in
accordance with the generally accepted accounting principals. When an asset is
purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply recorded at the amount of cash
paid, including all outlays relating to its purchase and preparation for
intended use. An asset register shall be maintained to provide a detailed
record of the capital assets of the governmental unit.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 33.02 RULES, APPLICATION FORM AND FEE; COMMUNITY BUILDING.
   (A)   The rent on the Linton Community Building will be $150 for the day it
is being totally utilized, and $75 additional if a person needs to use the
building the day before only partially to decorate or to set a band up and will
not be using the kitchen facilities on that day. If all facilities are being
used, a fee of $150 will still be assessed as usage for the whole day.
   (B)   The application and rules regulating the Linton Community Building
shall be adopted.
   (C)   Anyone renting the facility and using it within a seven-day period of
reservation, must pay the fee by cash instead of a check.
   (D)    Reservations will be made available to the building one year in
advance due to the planning that is required for large receptions or
activities, but still payable at the time the reservation is made and non-
refundable.
(Ord. 95-1, passed 1-9-1995; Am. Ord. 95-13, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 33.03 INCREASE RENTAL FEES; GIRL SCOUT CABIN AND SHELTER HOUSES.
   (A)   The rental fee shall be increased to $40 per unit mentioned.
   (B)   All fees must be paid when schedule time of rental and any damage to
the facilities will be charged to the renter.
   (C)   These increases will take effect on January 1, 1991.
(Ord. 90-15, passed 12-10-1990)
§ 33.04 RE-ESTABLISH CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby re-established the Linton Cumulative Capital
Development Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the Linton Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   The maximum rate of levy under division (B) will not exceed $.0500 on
each $100 of assessed valuation for 2015 payable in 2016.
   (D)   The Linton Cumulative Capital Development Fund is re-established for
the year 2016.
   (E)   The funds accumulated in the Linton Cumulative Capital Development
Fund will be used for I.C. 36-9-16-2, Cumulative Building Funds; I.C. 36-9-
16.5, Cumulative Street Fund and I.C. 36-10-3-21, Cumulative Building Fund-
Parks.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (E) above, funds accumulated in the Linton
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the
purposes stated in division(E) above, if the purpose is to protect the public
health, welfare or safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate
action. Money may be spent under the authority of this section only after the
Mayor issues a declaration that the public health welfare of safety is in
immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the Fund.
   (G)   This fund takes effect upon approval of the State Board of Tax
Commissioners.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 7-12-1993; Am. Ord. 2013-7, passed 6-18-2013; Am. Ord. 2015-
02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 33.05 MATERIALITY POLICY FOR MISAPPROPRIATION OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   The purpose of this policy is to establish local procedures and
specifications for public officials to abide by in reporting misappropriations
of public funds pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27. This materiality policy becomes
effective March 1, 2016. The terms of this policy are as follows:
   (A)   Requirement to report misappropriation.
      (1)   I.C. 5-11-1-27(1) requires public officials who have actual
knowledge of or reasonable cause to believe that there has been a
misappropriation of public funds to immediately send written notice of the
misappropriation to the State Board of Accounts and prosecuting attorney.
      (2)   The public officials of the city shall comply with this requirement
and follow the procedures set out herein in doing so.
   (B)   Threshold dollar amounts for reporting (materiality requirement).
      (1)   The following are the minimum amounts of misappropriations that are
material for the purpose of reporting to the State Board of Accounts.
      (2)   For incidents involving cash: Any single incidence of
misappropriation greater than $100 cash shall be reported pursuant to the terms
of this policy.
      (3)   For incidents involving non-cash assets: Any single incidence of
misappropriation greater than $500 of non-cash assets shall be reported
pursuant to the terms of this policy.
      (4)   For multiple incidents: Multiple incidents of suspected
misappropriation within any six month period that total greater than $100 in
cash and/or $500 in non-cash assets shall be reported pursuant to the terms of
this policy.
   (C)   Process of handling reports.
      (1)   Any public employee with actual knowledge of or a reasonable cause
to believe that a misappropriation of public funds has occurred shall
immediately notify the Clerk- Treasurer and provide all relevant details known
to that public employee of the potential misappropriation.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the designated public official of the
city who receives, records, and reports misappropriation to the State Board of
Accounts. The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain an annual file containing a log of
all reports made to him or her of misappropriation and any documentation
provided evidencing said reports. A spreadsheet shall be kept and totaled with
each report of misappropriation to determine if further action is necessary.
      (3)   Upon the receipt of any report of misappropriation or variance, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall undertake a review of the report to determine if it
satisfies the materiality requirements set out above, is not a loss caused by
genuine accident, and is not the result of an inadvertent error or misplacement
that is identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the city. Upon
determination that a misappropriation of a material variance has occurred, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately notify two entities in writing: the State
Board of Accounts, which requirement may be satisfied by filing a report in the
proper location on the Indiana State Board of Accounts website.
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain copies of any records in
connection to the monitoring and reporting of misappropriations, including
records for any reported incident that is not determined to be material
pursuant to the terms of this policy. The Clerk-Treasurer shall implement
internal control procedures to correct the cause(s) of misappropriations where
possible and document the resolution of all reports, whether material or of
lesser amount.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 33.06 UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts as policy the Internal Control Standards as set
forth by the Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards
for Indiana Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and published by
the Indiana State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from
time to time.
   (B)   At the time the annual financial report is electronically filed, the
Clerk Treasurer as fiscal officer of the city shall certify in writing that the
Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions have been
adopted and shall certify that the personnel have been trained as required by
law.
(Ord. 2016-10, passed 11-14-2016)
CHAPTER 34: AIRPORT
Section
   
34.01   Linton Airport Authority
   
34.02   Acquisition, operation, and maintenance of Airport
§ 34.01 LINTON AIRPORT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Linton Airport Authority under provisions
of I.C. 8-22-3.
   (B)   This section be in full force and effect from the date of its passage
and approval by the Common Council and the Mayor of the City of Linton,
Indiana.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-28-1980)
§ 34.02 ACQUISITION, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE OF AIRPORT.
   (A)   The Linton Common Council is in favor of the acquisition, operation,
and maintenance of a proposed Linton City Airport, Linton, Indiana, if the same
can be accomplished in an economically feasible manner.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be a necessity that the City of Linton,
Indiana, acquire, operate, and maintain the airport if the same can be done in
an economically feasible manner.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-22-3, the City of Linton, Indiana, hereby creates,
as an executive department, a Department of Aviation under the control of a
board of four members to be known as the Linton Board of Aviation
Commissioners.
   (D)   That nothing contained in this section shall require the City of
Linton, Indiana, to acquire, operate, or maintain the Airport nor shall the
Common Council of the City of Linton be required, by this section to
appropriate funds for the acquisition, operation, or maintenance of the
Airport.
   (E)   This section shall take effect from its passage and approval according
to law.
(Ord. 89-14, passed 11-20-1989)
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Personnel Policies Handbook
   
35.02   Blanket bonds or crime insurance coverage
§ 35.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK.
   1.   The policies, rules, regulations, and all other content of the Linton,
Indiana, Personnel Policies Handbook as the same existed in August of 2005 per
Executive Order and as the same appear in Attachment A hereto hereby are
adopted and ratified as Chapter 35 of Title III of the City Code.
   2.   Chapter 35 of Title III is amended as specified in Attachment B
entitled "Nepotism," "Elective Officer and City Employment Restricted," and
Contracting With The City." The attached sections and replacement pages hereby
are adopted and shall be in full force and effect on and after adoption, and
shall supersede existing oral or written personnel policies and procedures
pertaining to these sections adopted prior to this Ordinance.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 6-11-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-23, passed 12-10-2012; Am. Ord.
2017-3, passed 6-17-2017)
Click_here_to_view_PERSONNEL_POLICY_HANDBOOK_in_a_PDF_document
§ 35.02 BLANKET BONDS OR CRIME INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   (A)   The city, acting by and through its Clerk-Treasurer, is authorized to
purchase, as needed, a blanket bond or crime insurance policy endorsed to
include faithful performance covering the faithful performance of all city
employees, commission members, and other persons acting on behalf of the city,
including the officers, employees, and contractors described under I.C. 5- 4-1-
18(a).
   (B)   The minimum bond amount for public officials set forth under I.C. 5-4-
1-18(d)(1) and (2), including that for city controllers, city clerk-treasurers,
and Barrett Law fund custodians, as well as those employees directed to file an
individual bond by the fiscal body, is fixed as follows:
      (1)   The amount must equal $30,000 for each $1,000,000 of receipts of
each officer's office during the complete fiscal year before the purchase of
the bond, subject to division (B)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The amount may not be less than $30,000 or more than $300,000
unless the City Council approves a greater amount for the officer or employee.
   (C)   The minimum bond amount set forth under I.C. 5-4-1-18(e)(1), including
that for city judge (if ever applicable), city clerks, deputies, and all other
positions not specifically set forth above who handle monies on behalf of the
city, such as persons who work at the golf course and recycling center, is
fixed at not less than $15,000.
   (D)   The minimum bond amount set forth under I.C. 5-4-1-18(a)(7)(e)(2) for
employees or contractors of the city whose official duties include receiving,
processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that
belong to the county is fixed at not less than $5,000.
   (E)   The State Board of Accounts ("SBOA") may fix the amount of the bond
for a city controller, city clerk-treasurer, or Barrett Law Fund custodian at
an amount that exceeds $30,000 for each $1,000,000 of receipts of the officer's
office during the last complete fiscal year before the purchase of the bond.
   (F)   The SBOA may increase minimum bond coverage amounts if an examination
report finds malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance that resulted in the
misappropriation of, diversion of, or inability to account for public funds.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 12-14-2015)
CHAPTER 36: CITY DISTRICTS
Sections
   
36.01   City Districts
   
36.02   Maps, Census Blocks by District
§ 36.01 CITY DISTRICTS.
   Linton is divided into five districts consisting of the following :
 
Council District Census Blocks                                       Population
                 See the list in the column entitled "District 1" of
1                the attachment labeled "2010 Census Blocks by       1,087
                 District"
                 See the list in the column entitled "District 2" of
2                the attachment labeled "2010 Census Blocks by       1,103
                 District"
                 See the list in the column entitled "District 3" of
3                the attachment labeled "2010 Census Blocks by       1,088
                 District"
                 See the list in the column entitled "District 4" of
4                the attachment labeled "2010 Census Blocks by       1,081
                 District"
                 See the list in the column entitled "District 5" of
5                the attachment labeled "2010 Census Blocks by       1,054
                 District"
Total                                                                5,413
 
(Ord. 2012-13, passed 8-13-2012) Reference: IC 36-4-6-4(b)(4)
§ 36.02 MAPS, CENSUS BLOCKS BY DISTRICT.
   The above districts are depicted in the "Council District Boundaries—2010
Census," which is attached hereto.
(Ord. 2012-13, passed 8-13-2012)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e4d0417f25ec5c4eb72ea6b5f35aae1afe2fe807/
IMAGES/0-0-0-48.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e4d0417f25ec5c4eb72ea6b5f35aae1afe2fe807/
IMAGES/0-0-0-50.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e4d0417f25ec5c4eb72ea6b5f35aae1afe2fe807/
IMAGES/0-0-0-52.jpg]
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e4d0417f25ec5c4eb72ea6b5f35aae1afe2fe807/
IMAGES/0-0-0-54.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 37: CREDIT CARD USE AND CONTROL POLICY
Section
   
37.01   Credit Card Use And Control Policy
   
37.02   Credit Card Agreement
§ 37.01 CREDIT CARD USE AND CONTROL POLICY.
   1.   The Controller is authorized to obtain credit cards in the name of the
City of Linton from only one credit card company and administer the use of
these cards.
   2.   The use of the credit card will not change, replace, or bypass Linton's
accounting system. Purchase orders shall be required so that funds may be
encumbered and appropriations tracked in order to provide the City Council with
accurate accounting information as needed.
   3.   In all instances, an employee or official shall confirm with the
Controller prior to making any purchase to assure the availability of funds.
   4.   The Controller will maintain a log of the names of persons given credit
cards, their positions, estimated amounts to be charged, funds and account
numbers to be charged, dates the card are issued, and dates the cards are
returned. A copy of this Credit Card,Policy and a Credit Card Holder Agreement
will be issued and a signed copy returned prior to issuance ofthe card.
   5.   The employee or official that is issued the credit card is responsible
for its protection and custody and immediately shall notify the Controller if
the card is lost or stolen. An official or employee shall be responsible
personally for any funds paid by Linton resulting from the negligent care or
custody of the credit card.
   6.   The credit card shall be limited to the purchase of goods and services
for only official business that has been authorized in the budget of Linton.
The credit card may not be used for cash advances, personal use, or for any
other non-authorized purchase. (Electronic confirmation shall be considered a
written confirmation).
   7.   Payment for the credit card charges will not be made on the basis of a
credit card statement or slip only. The procedures for payment will be the same
as all other business transactions with a purchase order, documentation (which
should include an itemized receipt), and signed claim. The official or
employee, personally, shall be responsible for the payment of any improper
itemized or documented items, late receipts, absence of a purchase order or
signed claim as well as any interest, penalty, carrying charges, or sales tax
(for which the City is exempt) on the credit card bill.
   8.   Unless disputed, the credit card charges will be paid promptly in full
every billing cycle so that no improper charges, interest, carrying charges, or
penalties will be incurred.
   9.   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to pay a reasonable nominal annual
fee for each credit card.
   10.   Appropriate discipline shall be taken against any official or employee
who improperly uses a Linton credit card.
(Ord. 2012-17, passed 11-13-2012)
§ 37.02 CREDIT CARD AGREEMENT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e4d0417f25ec5c4eb72ea6b5f35aae1afe2fe807/
IMAGES/0-0-0-56.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 38: AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) TRANSITION PLAN
Section
   
38.01   Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) Transition Plan
§ 38.01 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) TRANSITION PLAN.
   1.   The Americans with Disabilities Act Transition Plan, which is attached
hereto, be and the same hereby is adopted.
   2.   Notice of the adoption of the ADA Transition Plan will be posted in all
locations required under applicable laws and regulations.
   3.   The ADA Transition Plan shall be effective on January 14, 2013, at 6:30
p.m.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 01-14-2013)
Click_here_to_view_AMERICANS_WITH_DISABILITIES_ACT_(ADA)_TRANSITION_PLAN_in_a
PDF_document
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
   
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
   
51.   GAS
   
52.   SANITATION UTILITY; GARBAGE
   
53.   WATER UTILITY
   
54.   ELECTRICITY UTILITY
   
55.    SEWER
   
56.    STORM WATER PLAN
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Jurisdiction
   
50.02   Definitions
Meters and Payments
   
50.14   Customer-requested disconnections
   
50.15   Disconnect and reconnect for untimely payments
   
50.16   Reconnecting utilities shut off; nonpayment
   
50.17   Deposits; connection and reconnection charges; service calls; refunds
   
50.18   Tampered meter disconnect and reconnect policy
   
50.19   Human or mechanical error
   
50.20   Connections
   
50.21   Budget payments
   
50.22   Collections
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Common Council of the City of Linton hereby determines to remove
the Municipal Utilities from the jurisdiction of the Indiana Utility Regulatory
Commission pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1.
   (B)   The Common Council hereby finds that written notice of this meeting
has been provided by mail to all ratepayers of the Municipal Utilities and to
the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1.
   (C)   This section shall be effective 60 days after adoption by the Common
Council, provided that a petition is not filed with the Council requesting that
the question of removal from Commission jurisdiction be submitted to the
registered voters of the city at the next election, all in accordance with I.C.
8-1.5.3-9.1.
(Ord. 93-7, passed 7-26-1993)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF WORKS. The Linton Board of Public Works.
   BUSINESS DAY. A day that the Utility Office is regularly scheduled to be
open for business.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, corporation, municipality or other government
agency that has agreed, orally or otherwise, to pay for service received from a
utility.
   DISCONNECTION. The termination or discontinuance of service.
   UTILITY. The Linton Municipal Utility Department.
   UTILITY OFFICE. The office located in the City Hall on 86 South Main Street,
Linton, Indiana 47441.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-9-2009)
METERS AND PAYMENTS
§ 50.14 CUSTOMER-REQUESTED DISCONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The customer must notify the utility at least three business days
before of the day disconnection is desired. The customer will be responsible
for all service used and the billing until service is disconnected pursuant to
such notice.
   (B)   Upon request by a customer of a utility to disconnect service, the
utility shall disconnect the service within three business days of the
requested disconnection date. The customer shall not be liable for any service
rendered to such address or location after the expiration of seven calendar
days.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 50.15 DISCONNECT AND RECONNECT FOR UNTIMELY PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Involuntary disconnections with prior notice. Service may be
disconnected to any customer with a bill that is not paid prior to the fifth of
the month following the month in which the bill was issued.
      (1)   Meter disconnections.
         (a)   The utility may disconnect services between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 3:00 p.m., unless otherwise authorized by applicable law.
         (b)   The utility will not disconnect utility services after noon on a
day that is preceded by a holiday or day that the Utility Office is not open.
         (c)   The utility shall give notice of the utility bill in the follow
manner.
            1.   Mail notice to customer's address of record with the utility
on the first day of the month.
            2.   Personal delivery to the person at the address of record or
other person at least 18 years of age located at the address of record.
            3.   A customer's service will be disconnected if payment is late
due to mail delivery or checks lost in the mail.
            4.   Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a customer from
payment of bill after the designated date for disconnection has passed.
            5.   The utility is not responsible for damage or loss resulting
from disconnection of services.
            6.   The utility will provide telephone information of the Utility
Office, address, and hours of regular operation.
            7.   Date of the disconnection of services for nonpayment will be
the fifth day of the preceding month after the bill is issued the first time.
            8.   Detail of services rendered sufficient to explain the bill.
            9.   On a date not later than the fifth of the month, unless it
falls on a holiday or weekend, then on a day after the fifth of the month,
services will be disconnected for delinquent payment.
            10.   Customers must pay prior to the date of disconnection to
ensure uninterrupted services.
         (d)   Utility employees outside of the Utility Office will not accept
payments to stop the disconnection of services.
         (e)   After performing the disconnection, the utility employee will
leave a notice of the disconnection, either with a person present at the home
or business, or posted in a conspicuous manner at the place where the customer
receives utilities, stating the address and telephone number of the Utility
Office.
         (f)   The utility shall charge a reconnection fee in an amount
established by ordinance. There will be no reconnections on Saturday or Sunday
without the express written approval of the Utility General Manager.
      (2)   Disconnection delayed; medical emergency.  
         (a)   A utility shall postpone the disconnection of service for ten
days, if, prior to the disconnect date, the customer provides the utility with
a medical statement from a licensed physician or public health official, which
states that disconnection would be a serious and immediate threat to the health
or safety of a designated person in the household of the customer.
         (b)   After the expiration of the ten-day period, the utility shall
disconnect services on the next business day or sooner if the reason for the
disconnection has not been cured within the ten-day period.
      (3)   Hardship.
         (a)   If a customer is unable to pay the full amount due because of
financial hardship, then the customer may request either one of the two
following options to extend the time for payment:
            1.   Option One.
               a.   The customer must notify the utility prior to the date of
disconnection that the customer requires additional time to make a payment in
full on all outstanding balances for services.
               b.   The customer's date of completion or termination of an
agreement under Options One or Two for additional time to make a payment in
full of all outstanding balances on services did not occur in the prior 12
months.
               c.   If the customer is not disqualified under division a. and
division b., then the utility may extend the time for disconnection no more
than 30 days or no less than 24 hours from the date and time that the request
is made.
               d.   The Utility General Manager shall grant or deny all
requests made under this section, and establish the date and time for
disconnection.
               e.   Any modification, changes, or alterations to an agreement
under this section shall be approved by the Board.
            2.   Option Two.
               a.   Prior to the date of disconnection, the customer must
notify the utility that he or she requires additional time to make payment in
full on all outstanding balances for services.
               b.   The customer must pay one fourth of the unpaid bill to the
utility.
               c.   The customer's date of completion or termination of an
agreement under Options One or Two for additional time to make a payment in
full of all outstanding balances on services did not occur in the prior 24
months.
               d.   The customer must agree to pay the outstanding balances on
services within three months in three equal installments due at the date of
disconnection for those three months.
               e.   The customer must agree to pay all undisputed future bills
for service as they become due.
               f.   The customer has not breached any similar agreement with
the utility, whose completion date was within the prior 48 months.
         (b)   The utility may add to the outstanding balance a reconnection
fee or/and a late payment charge pursuant to applicable ordinance.
         (c)   The above terms of any agreement shall be put in writing by the
utility and signed by the customer and by a representative of the utility.
         (d)   Any person who defaults on Option One or Two must be approved by
the Board before his or her utility services will be continued.
   (B)   Involuntary disconnections without prior notice; immediate.
      (1)   Conditions dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety or
property;
      (2)   By order of the court, or other public authority;
      (3)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of gas, water, or electricity is
detected and the utility has reasonable grounds to believe the customer is
responsible;
      (4)   The tampering of water, gas, or electric meters if the utility has
reasonable grounds to believe the customer was responsible; and/or
      (5)   If the utility’s regulating or measuring equipment has been
inoperable or malfunctioning.
   (C)   This section shall be in force and effect as mentioned afore and after
passage by the Common Council and the Mayor.
(Ord. 88-12, passed 9-12-1988; Am. Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 50.16 RECONNECTING UTILITIES SHUT OFF; NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   The Common Council is empowered by law to enact on this section.
   (B)   On and after the passage of this section, any customer disconnected
for nonpayment of utility bills will have to pay the utility bills in full, or
enter into an agreement for repayment, before reconnection will be made.
   (C)   Signed and approved by the Mayor and the Common Council of the City of
Linton, Greene County, Indiana.
(Ord. 84-14, passed 10-8-1984; Am. Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 50.17 DEPOSITS; CONNECTION AND RECONNECTION CHARGES; SERVICE CALLS; REFUNDS.
   (A)   Deposits. Persons requesting the Electric, Gas, Water or Wastewater
Departments of the City of Linton to provide services to a residence or
business, whether the residence is owner occupied or not, and whether the
commercial business is owner operated or not, shall pay the following deposits:
 
Residential       Commercial
Electric     $140 Electric     $350
All Electric $300 All Electric $590
Gas          $160 Gas          $240
Water        $30  Water        $40
Wastewater   $40  Wastewater   $50
Industrial:    Two times the average of the previous active 12 months’
charges, rounded to the nearest $100, at the service address for each
service. If the service is new at the address, the 12 months’ charges will
be estimated, based upon the type and size of the customer as compared to
similar types and sized customers. Deposits are subject to periodic review,
after which the deposit may be adjusted according to the most recent 12
months’ charges.
 
      (1)   Deposit reduced in half for an acceptable credit history. The
deposit shall be reduced in half if the customer provides written confirmation
from his or her preceding utility company (the Linton Municipal Utilities shall
be considered a preceding utility company) going back two years, showing the
customer has established an acceptable credit history (for definition, see
division (A)(4) below).
      (2)   Deposit waived for multiple locations. Should a current utility
customer request utility services be connected at MULTIPLE LOCATIONS (defined
as more than one location), the deposit shall be waived as long as the customer
has established an acceptable credit history and has signed the letter of
liability with the Utility Office. Should a customer with utility services at
multiple locations establish a negative credit history (for definition, see
division (A)(5) below) on any one or more accounts, deposits shall be required
on all accounts where the deposits were previously waived.
      (3)   No interest will be paid. Interest will not be paid on any part of
the deposit.
      (4)   Acceptable credit history defined. Having an ACCEPTABLE CREDIT
HISTORY is hereby defined as follows;
         (a)   Has been a customer of a preceding utility company during the
past two years.
         (b)   Is not past due on any bill by the previous or current utility
company.
         (c)   Within the past year, did not have more than one bill that was
delinquent to any utility company.
         (d)   Within the past two years, did not have a service disconnected
by any utility company for non-payment of a bill for services rendered by the
utility company.
      (5)   Negative credit history defined. Having a NEGATIVE CREDIT HISTORY
is hereby defined as follows:
         (a)   Having been past due on more than one occurrence, on any
account, during the preceding 12-month period; and/or
         (b)   Having any service disconnected as a result of non-payment
during the preceding 24-month period.
   (B)   Connection charges.
      (1)   Any person requesting the Electric, Gas or Water Departments of the
City of Linton to establish service for any of the above utilities shall pay a
connection charge shall pay a connection charge according to the following: $20
if the meters are required to be physically turned on; or $15 for transfer/read
and leave on only.
      (2)   Money to be collected as other utility billings.
   (C)   Reconnection charges.
      (1)   Any customer requesting the Electric, Gas or Water Departments of
the City of Linton to re-establish service of the utilities, after the service
has been disconnected for nonpayment of bills, shall pay a reconnect charge of
$25 during regular business hours, and $75 after hours.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, a disconnection of service may require
a physical disconnection of service lines or removal of meters. Under these
circumstances, a customer shall pay a reconnect charge of $50 during regular
business hours, and $100 after hours.
      (3)   Any customer disconnected for nonpayment of bills a second time
during a 12-MONTH PERIOD (being defined as the previous 12 months, up to and
including the date of the second disconnection) shall pay a deposit as set out
in division (A) herein.
   (D)   Service calls. All persons requesting service calls to be made by the
Electric, Gas or Water Departments of the City of Linton, made for the
convenience of the customer and not for repair or maintenance of city equipment
(that which runs to and includes the meter) shall be charged at the rate of $20
per call during regular business hours, and $40 after regular business hours.
   (E)   Refund of deposits. Deposits made by any person for electric, gas,
water or wastewater service, as set out in division (A) herein, shall be held
for a minimum of 24 months.
      (1)   Deposits will be applied to the customer's final bill, after which
the balance, if any, will be refunded.
      (2)   Any balance due after application of the deposit shall be due and
payable on or before the date specified on the final bill.
      (3)   If a given utility has a deposit balance remaining after that
utility's charges have been satisfied, such balance shall be applied to other
utility charges not so satisfied before any amount of the deposit is refunded.
      (4)   Deposits may be refunded after 24 months, if requested, provided
the customer does not currently have a negative credit history (for definition,
see division (A)(5)).
   (F)   Unclaimed electric, gas, water and wastewater utility deposits.
      (1)    I.C. 36-9-23-28 exempts unclaimed meter deposits required by a
municipally owned electric, gas, water or wastewater utility from the
requirements of the Unclaimed Property Act.
      (2)   A deposit under this section that has remained unclaimed by the
depositor for more than seven years after the termination of the services for
which the deposit was made, becomes the property of the municipality.
   (G)   This section shall be in full force and effect from the date of its
passage and approval by the Mayor and Common Council.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 50.18 TAMPERED METER DISCONNECT AND RECONNECT POLICY.
   (A)   When a meter is found to be tampered with, the meter reader or other
qualified city utility employee will have a witness to verify such and it shall
be disconnected within 24 hours.
   (B)   The violator will pay a $250 fine for each violation.
   (C)   The person responsible for the violation must pay the estimate of the
utility office in full as to how much utility has been used and not paid for.
   (D)   A meter deposit will be made in the amount of 25% of the customer’s
annual utility bill.
   (E)   All of this money will be paid in full, in person, at a regular
meeting of the City Council and be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at that Council
meeting as an official act of the Council.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 5-12-1981)
§ 50.19 HUMAN OR MECHANICAL ERROR.
   If a customer or user is unable to pay a bill, which is unusually large due
to a prior incorrect reading of the meter, incorrect application of the rate
schedule, incorrect connection or functioning of the meter, prior estimates
where no actual reading was taken for over two months, stopped or slow meters,
or any human or mechanical error of the utility, and
   (A)   The customer:
      (1)   Pays a reasonable portion of the bill, not to exceed an amount
equal to the customer's average bill for the six bills immediately preceding
the bill in question; and
      (2)   Agrees to pay the remainder in equal parts over a period of months
not to exceed six months and not less than three months; and
      (3)   Agrees to pay all undisputed future bills for service as they
become due; and
   (B)   The utility may not add to the outstanding bill any late fee; and
   (C)   The above terms of agreement shall be put in writing by the utility
and signed by the customer and a representative of the utility; and
   (D)   Then the services will be continued.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 50.20 CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Qualifications. In order to be considered for receiving utility
services, a customer must demonstrate to the city’s satisfaction that:
      (1)   If new construction or location of the connection is changed, the
location of the connection has been approved by the city prior to seeking the
connection;
      (2)   The customer qualifies under any other criteria as established by
applicable law, ordinance, or regulation;
      (3)   The customer has no outstanding bill owed to the utility or any
other utility provider;
      (4)   All connection deposits have been paid; and
      (5)   The customer has an ownership or other contractual interest in the
improvement to be served by the utility services.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Utility services will not be provided without required permits.
      (2)   Any connection to utility services without required permits will be
considered fraud and the services will be disconnected.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-9-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-14-2016) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 50.21 BUDGET PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The utility may establish a budget billing program to allow customers
to voluntarily pay their utility bills in equal monthly amounts. The program
will be for residential customers and small commercial customers that employ
less than five persons.
   (B)   The fees, costs, and time lines will be pursuant to applicable law,
and all other rules and regulations for this program will be promulgated by the
utility.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 50.22 COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   In order to recover and maintain the utility's ability to collect
accounts, the utility department will designate one or more employees to:
      (1)   Review the publication of public records that contains legal
notices, estate notices, obituaries, and other notices of record.
      (2)   The employee will note all customers that have deceased or
otherwise had a change in legal status that requires the utility to file a
notice or other legal document to preserve the utility's interest in the
customer's outstanding or current bill owed to the utility.
      (3)   The employee will file or otherwise act within two business days to
protect the interest of the utility.
   (B)   The utility will refer any customer's bill that has been outstanding
for more than 45 days from the date it was issued that is:
      (1)   In an amount more than $1,500, to the Office of the City Attorney;
      (2)   In an amount less than $1,500, to a designated collection agency or
other approved agent of the utility.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-9-2009)
CHAPTER 51: GAS
Section
   
51.01   Adoption rates and charges
§ 51.01 ADOPTION RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   There shall be and there are hereby established for the use of and the
service rendered by the gas utility of the City of Linton the rates and charges
attached as Exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated
therein.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect retroactive to January
1, 1994 upon its passage and approval of the Common Council.
(Ord. 94-9, passed 11-14-1994)
Editor’s note:
   Two copies of the provisions adopted by reference in this section are
available for public inspection at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer during
regular business hours.
CHAPTER 52: SANITATION UTILITY; GARBAGE
Section
   
52.01   Rates and charges
   
52.02   Create Department of Sanitation as a municipal utility
   
52.03   Linton Recycling Center fees
§ 52.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The City of Linton operates the Sanitation Utility to provide garbage
pickup for utility customers.
   (B)   The Common Council of the City of Linton now finds that the existing
rates and charges for the use of the service rendered by the Sanitation Utility
are insufficient to produce revenue to pay all of the necessary expenses
incident to the operation of the utility.
   (C)   (1)   Garbage pickup. The charges for garbage pickup shall be as
follows:
 
Residential Rate
1 time per week  $20 per month
Commercial Rate
1 time per week  $20 per month
2 times per week $40 per month
3 times per week $60 per month
 
      (2)   Dumpster rates. The charges for emptying dumpsters shall be as
follows:
 
Three-Yard Dumpster
Minimum          $87.50 per month
1 time per week  $87.50 per month
2 times per week $175 per month
3 times per week $262.50 per month
4 times per week $350 per month
5 times per week $437.50 per month
 
 
Six-Yard Dumpster
Minimum          $125 per month
1 time per week  $125 per month
2 times per week $250 per month
3 times per week $375 per month
4 times per week $500 per month
5 times per week $625 per month
 
 
Eight-Yard Dumpster
Minimum          $143.75 per month
1 time per week  $143.75 per month
2 times per week $287.50 per month
3 times per week $431.25 per month
4 times per week $575 per month
5 times per week $718,75 per month
(Ord. 04-01, passed 2-9-2004; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 4-13-2009; Am. Ord.
2012-11, passed 6-11-12; Ord. 2014-6, passed 5-12-2014; Am. Ord. 2024-15,
passed 1-13-2025)
   (D)   The above Subsection (C) will be in full force and effect as of June
1, 2014, for the bills that are payable as of July 6, 2014.
   (E)   The amount of garbage to be collected from each residential customer
is limited to four 33-gallon bags per week.
   (F)   (1)   Garbage for commercial customers may be collected up to three
times per week with a limit of four 33-gallon bags for each pickup.
      (2)   Approved trash for pickup and non-approved trash for pickup:
         (a)   Approved trash for pickup; all trash must be in approved
containers or be in bags:
            1.   Container must be weather proof;
            2.   Containers must have lids and handles;
            3.   Four 33 gallon bag limit;
            4.   Max weight 50# per can, 15# per bag;
            5.   No loose trash, must be in approved container or bagged;
            6.   Household trash only;
            7.   Trash needs to be set curb side by 5:00 a.m. the morning of
pickup.
         (b)   Non approved trash for pickup:
            1.   Construction material including but not limited to: roofing,
flooring, drywall, wood, concrete, windows, appliances, bedding.
            2.   Hazardous waste including but not limited to: paint, oils,
batteries, tvs, computers, tires.
            3.   Dirt, sand, rock, yard waste, grass clippings, limbs and
leaves.
            4.   Animal waste, kitty litter unless bagged and under 10#.
            5.   No loose trash or trash in cardboard boxes.
   (G)   Grass, yard debris and construction waste will not be collected.
However, the Sanitation Department may be able to assist with disposal of this
type of debris at an additional charge. Capabilities of assistance and
applicable charges will be determined by the Sanitation Superintendent.
   (H)   This section shall be in full force and effect from the date of its
passage and approval by the Mayor and the Common Council of the City of Linton,
Indiana.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 2-9-2004; Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 4-13-2009; Am. Ord.
2016-03, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 52.02 CREATE DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION AS A MUNICIPAL UTILITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Sanitation Service as a
separate utility service to the City of Linton under the direction and
supervision of the Linton Board of Public Works, and there is hereby created
the Sanitation Department Fund as a non-reverting utility fund.
   (B)   Any and all funds now deposited in the Sanitation Service Fund of the
General Fund of the civil city are hereby transferred to the Sanitation
Department Fund, which fund is a separate utility fund, distinct from the civil
city.
   (C)   This section shall take effect and be in force on and after its
passage and approval by the Mayor and Common Council of the City of Linton,
Indiana.
(Ord. 80-14, passed 4-10-1980)
§ 52.03  LINTON RECYCLING CENTER FEES.
   (A)   This section is created to establish fees for the Linton Recycling
Center. Until otherwise amended, this section will reflect the fees in division
(B) below and will be effective upon approval from the City Council.
   (B)   Standard rates:
 
Small truck bed     $35 per load
Full size truck bed $45 per load
Small trailer       $55 per load
Median size trailer $65 per load
Large size trailer  $75 per load
 
 
Mattress and box springs $10 each
Hide-a-bed               $20 each
Couches and recliners    $15 each
30-gallon bag of trash   $2 each
 
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 6-10-2019)
CHAPTER 53: WATER UTILITY
Section
   
53.01   Rates and Charges
   
53.02   Release of Blanket Utility Easement
   
53.03   Cross-Connection Control
§ 53.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The Common Council of the City of Linton now finds that the existing
rates and charges for the use of the service rendered by the Water Utility of
the city are too low and are insufficient to produce revenue to pay all of the
necessary expenses incident to the operation of the utility, including
maintenance costs, operating charges, upkeep, repairs, legal expenses and other
obligations, to provide payment to the city in lieu of taxes, to provide
adequate working capital, to provide for depreciation and make necessary
extensions and replacements, to pay interest charges on obligations of the
Water Utility; to provide a siriking fund for the liquidation of indebtedness;
to pay debt service on outstanding indebtedness, and to provide funds for a
reasonable return on the utility plant, and that the existing rates and charges
should be increased.
   (B)   There shall be and are hereby established for the use of the service
rendered by the water utility of the City of Linton the rates and charges
attached as the schedule following this section and incorporated therein.
   (C)   The rates herein approved shall provide for a reasonable return on the
Water Utility plant of the City of Linton and other legal and other necessary
expenses as provided for in I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.
   (D)   The Common Council hereby elects to receive payment in lieu of taxes
from, the Water Utility.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect beginning with the
January 2012 bill due and payable by January 16, 2012.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 5-9-2005; Am. Ord. 2011-08, passed 12-12-2011)
LINTON MUNICIPAL WATER UTILITY
Linton, Indiana
Schedule of Rates and Charges
 
Monthly Metered Rates (per 1,000 gallons)
                     City  Rural
First 15,000 gallons $4.90 $5.61
Next 45,000 gallons  $3.34 $3.34
Over 60,000 gallons  $3.15 $3.15
 
Minimum Monthly Charges
Minimum Monthly Charges
Each user shall pay a minimum monthly charge in accordance with the size of
meter installed.
                     City    Rural
5/8 or 3/4-inch meter $9.80   $11.22
1-inch meter          $24.50  $28.05
1½-inch meter        $34.31  $39.28
2-inch meter          $49.01  $56.12
3-inch meter          $73.51  $84.17
4-inch meter          $123.67 $134.32
6-inch meter          $255.42 $266.06
 
 
Fire Protection Services (Annual Charge)
                                     City    Rural
Private hydrants, each                $796.11 $796.11
Automatic sprinkler connections, each $870.75 $870.75
 
 
Wholesale Sales
Monthly metered rates (per 1,000 gallons) $2.55
 
Connection Charges (information only)
Each user at the time of connection of the water utility shall pay a charge to
cover the cost of: tapping the main; furnishing and laying service pipe from
the main to the property line (including curb stop) corporation and stop cock,
meter box and yoke; and installing the meter. The charge for a 5/8-inch meter
or larger shall be the labor, overhead, and material costs incurred, but not
less than $500.
 
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 5-9-2005; Am. Ord. 2011-08, passed 12-12-2011; Am. Ord.
2013-17, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 53.02 RELEASE OF BLANKET UTILITY EASEMENT.
   Pursuant to a Utility Easement dated November 20, 2012, and recorded
November 21, 2012, as Instrument Number 201200005206, Bland Family Property,
LLC, an Indiana limited liability company (the "Grantor"), conveyed a permanent
easement (the "Easement") to The City of Linton, Indiana (the "Grantee"), for
the purposes of operating a municipal water line, over, along, and upon the
lands of the Grantor, and with it the right to use, operate, inspect, repair,
maintain, replace, and remove any and all water lines and appurtenances deemed
necessary by the Grantee to insure the continued operation of the Grantee's
water facilities, over, across, and through the land of the Grantor, situated
in Greene County, Indiana.
   (A)   There is a non-frivolous dispute concerning the encumbrance of title
created on adjoining properties by the above described blanket utility
easement.
   (B)   The property subject to and being released from the Easement (the
"Real Estate") is described in Appendix A, attached hereto and made a part
hereof.
   (C)   The Grantee has no plans to construct any waterlines in addition to
the existing waterline underlying the Real Estate, the Grantors desire that the
Easement be limited to burden only the area of the Real Estate containing the
existing waterline.
   (D)   The Grantee has executed a Public Utility Easement (the "Revised
Easement")) conveying a 30 foot wide public utility easement, 15 feet on each
side of the existing waterline underlying the Real Estate, to the Grantee, the
Revised Easement being sufficient to allow the Grantee to use, operate,
inspect, repair, maintain, replace, and remove the existing waterline
underlying the Real Estate.
   (E)   As a result of the Grantor's conveyance of the Revised Easement, the
Grantee no longer has a need for the property interest conveyed by way of the
Easement.
   (F)   The release of the Easement would facilitate the establishment of
title to adjoining properties.
   The City of Linton releases the Easement covering the Real Estate as of the
21st day of January, 2013.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 01-21-2013)
§ 53.03 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   The Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission (675 IAC, Article
16, Rule 1.2 of the Indiana Plumbing Code), requires protection of the public
water supply from contaminants due to backnow through connections to fire
protection and standpipe systems. The Indiana Department of Environmental
Management authorizes the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control that will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination of all potable water systems;
   1.   A cross connection shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the City of Linton water system, and the other, water from a
private source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or
chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two
systems.
   2.   No person, firm, corporation, or other entity shall establish or permit
to be established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection.
No interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the City of Linton may enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipahty unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Linton Water Utility and by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management
in accordance with 327 IAC 8-10.
   3.   The City of Linton Water Utility shall cause inspections to be made of
all properties served by the public water system where cross connections with
the public water system are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
re-inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be established
by the City of Linton Water Utility.
   4.   Upon presentation of credentials, representatives of the City of Linton
Water Utility shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine the property served by a connection to the public water system of the
City of Linton for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or
occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such property.
The refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
   5.   The Linton Water Utility hereby is authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this ordinance exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice has been
served on the owner, lessee, or occupant(s) of the property or premises where a
violation is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until the cross connection(s) has been ehminated in compliance
with the provisions of this ordinance.
   6.   If it is deemed by the Linton Water Utility that a cross connection or
an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare, and requires
immediate action, and a written frnding to that effect is filed with the clerk
of the City of Linton and delivered to the consumer's premises, service may be
discontinued immediately. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within 10 days of such emergency discontinuance.
   7.   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users shall install and maintain a reduced pressure principle backflow
preventer in the main water line serving each building on the premises. The
backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not
subject to flooding or freezing.
   8.   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level.
   9.   This ordinance does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, the IDEM
Rule 327 IAC 8-10, but is supplementary to it; however, this ordinance
supersedes and replaces Ordinance No. 87-3 in its entirety.
   10.   If, in the judgment of the Manager of Linton Utilities, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the Manager will give notice to the water consumer to install such an
approved device immediately. The water consumer, at his own expense, shall
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner approved by the
Manager and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices as
required by the Manager and in accordance with the IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-10.
   11.   This ordinance was adopted and passed by the Common Council of the
City of Linton, Indiana, to be in effect as of the 8th day of July, 2013.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 07-08-2013, replaces Ord. 87-3 in its entirety, passed 06-
18-1987)
Click_here_to_view_EXHIBIT_A_in_a_PDF_document
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICITY UTILITY
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Peak management credit for customers
   
54.02   Prohibition on direct retail customer participation in MISO demand
response programs
   
54.03   Interconnection standards for the City of Linton Electric Utility
Rates and Charges; Fees
   
54.15   Establishing rates and charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 PEAK MANAGEMENT CREDIT FOR CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The City of Linton owns and operates a municipal electric distribution
system, known as Linton Municipal Electric Utility, for the purpose of
distributing electrical energy in the city and surrounding areas.
   (B)   The City of Linton is a member of and purchases all of its power and
energy from the Indiana Municipal Power Agency (IMPA).
   (C)   IMPA has adopted a Peak Management program for the purpose of
implementing direct load control of central air conditioners and electric water
heaters; and, to encourage participation in the Peak Management program, IMPA
will provide a credit against a member’s purchased power expense for each
switch installed on its customers’ appliances in the amount of $1 per month
(year round) for water heaters and $2 per month (June through September only)
for central air conditioners.
   (D)   The Peak Management program contemplates that a member will flow
through to its retail customers the credit it receives from IMPA as part of the
program.
   (E)   The credit available under the IMPA’s Peak Management program affects
the rates and charges previously approved for electrical services provided by
the Linton Municipal Electric Utility, making it necessary for this municipal
legislative body to adopt appropriate tariff provisions to implement the Peak
Management credit program.
   (F)   There shall be and there is hereby established, for the use of and the
service rendered by the Linton Municipal Electric Utility, the Peak Management
Credit described on Attachment PM.
   (G)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval of the Common Council of the City of Linton, Indiana.
(Ord. 96-4, passed 7-8-1996)
Editor’s note:
   Two copies of the provisions adopted by reference in this section are
available for public inspection at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer during
regular business hours.
§ 54.02 PROHIBITION ON DIRECT RETAIL CUSTOMER PARTICIPATION IN MISO DEMAND
RESPONSE PROGRAMS.
   (A)   The findings and determinations set forth in the preambles to
Ordinance No. 2009-04 are hereby made findings and determinations of the
Council.
   (B)   The city or its authorized designee is the sole entity permitted to
bid demand response on behalf of retail customers served by the city directly
into any FERC-approved independent system operator's or regional transmission
organization's organized electric markets.
   (C)   (1)   Retail customers served by the city wishing to bid their demand
response into a FERC-approved independent system operator's or regional
transmission organization's organized electric markets may do so by
participating in the program established by the city.
      (2)   Retail customers are not permitted to participate in the demand
response program of any other entity without the express prior authorization of
the city.
   (D)   The city or its authorized designee is the sole entity permitted to
bid demand response on behalf of retail customers served by city directly into
any FERC-approved independent system operator's or regional transmission
organization's organized markets for energy imbalance, spinning reserves,
supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control, or regulation and
frequency response ancillary services (or its functional equivalent in the
Commission-approved independent system operator's or regional transmission
organization's tariff).
   (E)   (1)   Retail customers served by the city wishing to bid their demand
response into a FERC- approved independent system operator's or regional
transmission organization's organized markets for energy imbalance, spinning
reserves, supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control, or
regulation and frequency response ancillary services (or its functional
equivalent in the FERC-approved independent system operator's or regional
transmission organization's tariff) may do so by participating in a program
that will be established by the city or its authorized designee.
      (2)   Retail customers are not permitted to participate in the demand
response program of any other entity without the express prior authorization of
the city.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 2-9-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.03 INTERCONNECTION STANDARDS FOR THE CITY OF LINTON ELECTRIC UTILITY.
   (A)   The findings and determinations set forth in the preambles to Ord.
2021-04 are hereby made findings and determinations of the Council.
   (B)   A customer desiring to interconnect renewable generation facilities
with the utility's grid for the purpose of offsetting the customer's electric
load shall complete an interconnection application and submit the application
to the utility for review. After receipt of the application, the utility shall
conduct such further inspection of the renewable generation facilities as the
utility deems necessary and approve or deny the application. If the application
is denied, the utility shall provide a written response to the customer
explaining why the application was denied. The utility shall utilize a third
party, chosen by the utility, for reviewing the application, inspecting the
renewable generation facilities, and otherwise ensuring compliance with this
section. All costs associated with this review, inspection, and compliance will
be at the customer's sole expense and shall be payable to the third party prior
to interconnection to the utility's electrical grid.
   (C)   If the interconnection application is approved, then the customer
agrees that no changes shall be made to the configuration of the renewable
generation facilities, as that configuration is described in the application,
and no relay or other control or protection settings specified in the
application shall be set, reset, adjusted or tampered with, except to the
extent necessary to verify that the renewable generation facilities comply with
the utility's approved settings.
   (D)   In addition to such other requirements as the utility deems necessary,
any renewable generation facility allowed to interconnect to the utility's grid
must comply with: (a) the National Electrical Code and the National Electrical
Safety Code, as each may be revised from time to time; (b) the utility's rules
and regulations and the utility's general terms and conditions for electric
service, each as contained in the utility's electric tariff and each as may be
revised from time to time; and (c) all other applicable local, state, and
federal codes and laws, as the same may be in effect from time to time.
   (E)   For any approved renewable generation facilities interconnected to the
utility's grid, the customer shall install, operate, and maintain, at the
customer's sole cost and expense, the renewable generation facilities in
accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers'
applicable Standard for Interconnecting Distributed Resources with Electric
Power Systems, as it may be amended from time to time. The customer shall be
responsible for protecting, at the customer's sole cost and expense, the
renewable generation facilities from any condition or disturbance on the
utility's electric system, including, but not limited to, voltage sags or
swells, system faults, outages, loss of a single phase of supply, equipment
failures, and lightning or switching surges.
   (F)   The customer shall operate any interconnected renewable generation
facilities in such a manner as not to cause undue fluctuations in voltage,
intermittent load characteristics or otherwise interfere with the operation of
the utility's electric system. At all times when the renewable generation
facilities are being operated in parallel with the utility's electric system,
the customer shall operate the renewable generation facilities in a manner that
no disturbance will be produced to the service rendered by the utility to any
of its other customers or to any electric system interconnected with the
utility's electric system. The customer's control equipment for the renewable
generation facilities shall immediately, completely, and automatically
disconnect and isolate the renewable generation facilities from the utility's
electric system in the event of a fault on the utility's electric system, a
fault on the customer's renewable generation facilities, or loss of a source or
sources on the utility's electric system. The automatic disconnecting device
included in such control equipment shall not be capable of reclosing until
after service is restored on the utility's electric system. Additionally, if
the fault is with the customer's renewable generation facilities, such
automatic disconnecting device shall not be reclosed until after the fault is
isolated from the customer's renewable generation facilities.
   (G)   Upon reasonable advance notice to the customer, the utility shall have
access to any interconnected renewable generation facilities to perform on-site
inspections to verify that the installation and operation of the renewable
generation facilities comply with the requirements of this section and to
verify the proper installation and continuing safe operation of the renewable
generation facilities. The utility shall also have at all times immediate
access to breakers or any other equipment that will isolate the renewable
generation facilities from the utility's electric system. The utility shall not
be responsible for any costs the customer may incur as a result of such
inspection(s). The utility shall have the right and authority to isolate
approved interconnected renewable generation facilities at the utility's sole
discretion if the utility believes that: (a) continued interconnection and
parallel operation of the renewable generation facilities with the utility's
electric system creates or contributes (or will create or contribute) to a
system emergency on either the utility's or the customer's electric facilities;
(b) the renewable generation facilities are not in compliance with the
requirements of this section; or (c) the renewable generation facilities
interfere with the operation of the utility's electric system. In non-
emergency situations, the utility shall give the customer reasonable notice
prior to isolating the renewable generation facilities.
   (H)   Customer shall procure and keep in force during all periods of
parallel operation of the renewable generation facilities with the utility's
electric system, homeowners, commercial, or other insurance to protect the
interests of the utility as a named insured, with insurance carriers acceptable
to the utility, and in amounts not less than those reasonably determined by the
utility to be necessary taking into consideration the nameplate capacity,
configuration and type of the renewable generation facilities. The customer
shall indemnify and hold harmless the utility, the City of Linton, its
employees, representatives, agents and subcontractors from and against all
claims, liability, damages and expenses, including attorney's fees, based on
any injury to any person, including the loss of life, or damage to any
property, including the loss of use thereof, arising out of, resulting from, or
connected with, or that may be alleged to have arisen out of, resulted from, or
connected with, an act or omission by the customer, its employees, agents,
representatives, successors or assigns in the construction, ownership,
operation or maintenance of the customer's renewable generation facilities. If
the utility is required to bring an action to enforce its rights under this
division (H), either as a separate action or in connection with another action,
and said rights are upheld, the customer shall reimburse the utility for all
expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred in connection with such action.
   (I)   If a customer owning or leasing a renewable generation facility
produces more energy from such facility than the customer's electric load at
that meter, then the excess energy shall be purchased from the customer by IMPA
pursuant to the terms of a separate power purchase agreement between the
customer and IMPA. The utility shall own any meter used to measure output of
energy from the customer's renewable generation facility.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to connect or maintain
the connection of a renewable generating facility to the utility's grid without
obtaining the utility's approval of an interconnection application. Any person
or entity found to be in violation of this section shall be fined not less than
$500, nor more than $2,500 for each such violation, plus costs. In addition to
the foregoing fines and at the utility's sole discretion, property where a
renewable generating facility is unlawfully connected to the utility's grid may
be disconnected from the utility's grid until an interconnection application is
approved. Every day that a violation of this section occurs shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (K)   The terms of Ord. 2010-05, as previously codified in §
54.03 of the Code, shall continue to apply as to the one customer currently
using the net metering tariff, and said customer shall be allowed to continue
using the tariff until January 1, 2035, at which time said customer's
interconnection with the city shall be governed by the standards set forth
herein.
   (L)   Except as set forth in division (K), above, Ord. 2010-05, as
previously codified in §
54.03 of the Code, shall be and hereby is repealed and replaced as provided
herein, effective upon its passage by the City Council and approval by the
Mayor.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 2021-04, passed 6-14-2021)
RATES AND CHARGES; FEES
§ 54.15 ESTABLISHING RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The Common Council of the City of Linton now finds that the existing
rates and charges for the use of the service rendered by the Electric Utility
of the city are too low and are insufficient to produce revenue to pay all of
the necessary expenses incident to the operation of the utility, including
maintenance costs, operating charges, upkeep, repairs, legal expenses and other
obligations, to provide for depreciation and make necessary extensions and
replacements, to pay interest charges on obligations of the Electric Utility;
to provide a sinking fund for the liquidation of indebtedness; to pay debt
service on outstanding indebtedness, and to provide funds for a reasonable
return on the utility plan, and that the existing rates and charges should be
increased.
   (B)   There shall be and there are hereby established for the use of the
service rendered by the Electric Utility of the City of Linton the rates and
charges attached as Exhibit A of the ordinance codified herein and incorporated
herein.
   (C)   The rates herein approved shall provide for a reasonable return on the
Electric Utility plant of the City of Linton and other legal and other
necessary expenses as provided for in I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.
   (D)   The Common Council hereby elects to receive payment in lieu of taxes
from the Electric Utility.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval of the Mayor.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 10-5-1994)
Editor’s note:
   Two copies of the provisions adopted by reference in this section are
available for public inspection at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer during
regular business hours.
CHAPTER 55: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
55.01   Non-effluent substances; discharge into sewer
Rates and Charges; Fees
   
55.15   Schedule of rates and charges
   
55.16   Sewage dump fees
 
   
55.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.01 NON-EFFLUENT SUBSTANCES; DISCHARGE INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   The Superintendent of the Linton Municipal Utilities or his or her
duly appointed agents, or employees, shall be permitted to enter all properties
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
to determine compliance with this section.
   (C)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this section shall
be served by the city with a written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violations.
   (D)   This section shall take effect and be in force on and after its
passage and approval by the Mayor and Common Council of the City of Linton,
Indiana.
(Ord. 81-2, passed 3-10-1981) Penalty, see § 55.99
RATES AND CHARGES; FEES
§ 55.15 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage disposal works,
rates on charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot,
parcel of real estate, or building that is connected with the city's sanitary
sewerage system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
water or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary
sewerage system of the city, which rates and charges shall be payable as
hereinafter provided and shall be in the amount determinable as follows:
      (1)   Metered Consumption.
 
Metered Consumption           Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
Metered water usage per month $6.74
 
      (2)   Basic Charge Per Month.
Base Charge Per Month Monthly Charge*
Base Charge Per Month Monthly Charge*
5/8 - 3/4-inch meter  $18.47
1-inch meter          $36.17
1 1/4-inch meter      $53.85
1 1/2-inch meter      $65.64
2-inch meter          $101.02
3-inch meter          $183.58
4-inch meter          $301.51
 
      (3)   User not metered. Where the user is not a metered consumer, the
minimum charge shall be determined by means and methods satisfactory to the
city.
   (B)   For the service rendered to the city, the city shall be subject to the
same rates and charges herein above provided, or to rates and charges
established in harmony therewith.
   (C)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitable
related to the services rendered to industrial users, the City of Linton shall
base its charges not only on the volume, but also on strength and character of
the stronger-than-normal industrial sewage and waste which it is required to
treat and dispose of. The City of Linton shall require the owner or other
industrial user to determine the strength and content of all wastes and sewage
discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system,
in the manner and by the method as the city may deem practicable in the light
of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order to
determine the proper charge. The owner or other industrial user shall furnish a
control sampling point available to the city at all times.
   (D)   Normal domestic waste shall not exceed a bio-chemical oxygen demand of
200 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended solids in excess of 250
milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating stronger-than-
normal industrial waste shall be made on the following basis:
      (1)   Excessive strength surcharges.
 
Excessive Strength Surcharges                            Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
Suspended solids - in excess of 250 milligrams per liter $0.262
BOD surcharge - in excess of 200 milligrams per liter    $0.485
 
      (2)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day bio-chemical
oxygen demand contained in the wastes shall be in accordance with the latest
copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage, and Industrial
Wastes, as written by the American Public Health Association, the American
Waterworks Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
      (3)   Non-recurring charges.
         (a)   Late payment charge shall be 10% of delinquency.
         (b)   Tap connection charge shall be $15.
         (c)   Permit and inspection fees:
            1.   Residential and commercial: $25; and
            2.   Industrial: $25.
   (E)   Except for billings to multiple users such as apartment houses, mobile
home courts, and housekeeping rooms, the rates and charges may be billed to the
tenant or tenants occupying the properties served unless otherwise requested in
writing by the owners, but the billings shall in no way relieve the owner from
liability in the event payment is not made as herein requested. The owners of
the properties served, which are occupied by tenants, shall have the right to
examine the collection records of the city for the purpose of determining
whether the rates and charges have been paid by the tenants, provided that the
examinations shall be made at the office at which the records are kept, and
during the hours that the office is open for business.
   (F)   If in order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the City of Linton shall cause a study to be
made within a reasonable period of time following the first 12 months of
operation, subsequent to the completion of the improvement project. The study
shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with
the treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage and the adequacy of its revenue
to provide reasonable funds for operation and maintenance, replacements, debt
service requirements, and capital improvements to the waste treatment system.
   (G)   Thereafter, on an annual basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the City of Linton shall cause a
similar study to be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity
of the rates and charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. The studies
shall be conducted by officers and/or employees of the City of Linton, or by a
firm of certified public accountants and/or a firm of consulting engineers
which firms shall have experience in the studies.
   (H)   The city shall make and enforce the by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the same, economical and efficient management of the
city's sewage system, regulator chambers, pumping stations, and sewage
treatment works, for the construction and use of the house sewers and
connections to the sewerage system, and for the regulations, collections,
rebating, and refunding of the rates and charges.
   (I)   The dumping of wastes into the city's sewage system which, in its
discretion, is deemed harmful to the operation of the sewage treatment works of
the city, is prohibited, and the city shall require methods affecting pre-
treatment of the wastes to reduce the characteristics of the wastes
satisfactory to conform with the limits set in division (C) above.
   (J)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and signing by the Mayor.
(Ord. 95-6, passed 6-12-1995; Am. Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-12-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-08, passed 06-11-2012; Ord. 2012-16, passed 12-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2021-06,
passed 10-12-2021)
§ 55.16 SEWAGE DUMP FEES.
   (A)   The City of Linton owns and operates a Municipal Sewage Plant.
   (B)   The Sewage Plant has been established to handle municipal sewage.
   (C)   It is necessary to increase the fee for commercial dumping to be
approved by the Common Council and that fee be increased to $25 for 1,000-
gallon tanks to be dumped into the Linton Sewage Plant for treatment and $5 for
each 1,000 over the above amount.
   (D)   These increases will be in effect on March 1, 1991, until further
notice. (Ord. 91-2, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation of § 55.01 beyond the time
limit provided for in the notice required by §
55.01(C) above shall be guilty of an infraction and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in
which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed as a separate offense.
CHAPTER 56: STORM WATER PLAN
Section
General Provisions
   
56.01   Definitions
Rates and Charges; Fees
   
56.15   Storm water user fee
   
56.16   Fee establishment procedure
   
56.17   Billing and payment penalties
   
56.18   Adjustment of fees
   
56.19   Private storm water facilities
   
56.20   Delinquent fees and penalties as liens
   
56.21   Storm Water Revenue Fund
 
   
56.99   Violations, enforcement, and penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 56.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply;
words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural, the
singular; and words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary. The word "may" is
permissive. Words not defined herein shall be construed to have the meanings
given by common and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster's
Dictionary.
   APPROVED PLANS. Plans approved by the city according to a permit and plan
review that govern all improvements made within the service area that require a
storm water system or changes or alterations to the existing storm water
system.
   CITY. The City of Linton, acting by and through the Council.
   COMMERCIAL PROPERTY. All properties within the service area not encompassed
within the definition of residential property with water or sewer service
intended to measure flow to/from the city's utility service.
   COUNCIL. The Common Council of the City of Linton, Indiana, or any other
successor entity or any duly authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   LOT. The smallest separately segregated parcel, unit, or plot of land having
an identified owner, boundaries, and surface area that is documented for
property tax purposes by the Greene County Assessor.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, institution, or other
entity deemed by the city to be the responsible party for any residential or
commercial property.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any lot or parcel existing in the service area on
which reside one or two dwelling units.
   SERVICE AREA. All property within the corporate boundary of the City of
Linton, Greene County, Indiana.
   STORM WATER. Water that originates during precipitation events including
rain, snow, sleet, ice, or hail.
   STORM WATER SYSTEM. 
      (1)   All facilities constructed in an easement or right of way,
including structures and natural watercourses under the ownership, and/or
control of the city, used for collecting and conveying storm water to, through,
and from drainage areas to the point of final outlet, including any and all of
the following: inlets, creeks, channels, catch basins, ditches, streams, street
culverts, retention or detention basins and pumping stations, private drainage
systems, or drainage systems that are the responsibility of a homeowners'
association, and excluding therefrom any part of the system of drains and water
courses under the jurisdiction of Greene County.
      (2)   Storm Water Systems also may include waters that are under the
jurisdiction of various permitting agencies of the State of Indiana, which acts
by and through the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and/or the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management or the United States of America, which
acts by and through the Corps of Engineers,
   STORM WATER USER PEE. A charge imposed on users of the city's storm water
system.
   SURFACE WATER. Water occurring on the surface of the land.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-10-2017)
RATES AND CHARGES; FEES
§ 56.15 STORM WATER USER FEE.
   A storm water user fee of $12.50 per month is imposed on all properties
within the service area, including residential and commercial, and without
regard to a classification as profit, non-profit, tax-exempt, or otherwise,
that receives city sanitary services. This user fee is deemed reasonable and is
necessary to pay for the repair, replacement, planning, improvement, operation,
regulation, and maintenance of the existing and future storm water system for
the city.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 56.16 FEE ESTABLISHMENT PROCEDURE.
   Storm water user fee rates are designed to recover and provide funds to pay
the costs of rendering storm water service to the users of the storm water
system(s), and shall be the basis for assessment of the city's storm water user
fee. These storm water user rates are established to maintain adequate fund
reserves to provide for reasonably expected variations in the costs of
providing services, as well as variations in the demand for services. These
rates shall be evaluated annually as to sufficiency to satisfy the needs of the
city.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 56.17 BILLING AND PAYMENT PENALTIES.
   The user fee set forth in §
56.02 shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the city in the manner
provided by law and ordinance. The rates shall take effect with the August,
2017, usage period or as soon thereafter as practicable.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing in no way shall relieve the owner from the liability if payment is
not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which are
occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection
records of the city for the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid
by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall be made at the
office at which said records are kept and during the hours that such office is
open for business.
   (C)   As provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due hereby
are declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates
or charges shall be added monthly to the principal balance. The rates and
charges shall be paid 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 56.18 ADJUSTMENT OF FEES.
   The rides and regulations promulgated by the city, after being approved by
the Council, shall provide for an appeal procedure whereby a user shall have
the right to appeal a decision of the administrator of the utility system and
the fee structure to the Council and any decision concerning the fee structure
of the Council may be appealed to the circuit court of the county under the
appeal procedures provided for in the Indiana Administrative Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 56.19 PRIVATE STORM WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall have no responsibility for the installation,
maintenance or repair of private storm water facilities or private drain
systems.
   (B)   Approved plans for all private storm water facilities required to
secure governmental approvals shall be submitted to the city prior to
commencement of construction of such private facilities, such private
facilities shall be constructed according to such approved plans, and
connection to the storm water system shall be made only after the city
determines that such construction complied with such plans.
   (C)   No newly-constructed storm water systems or drains shall cross the
property of another private owner unless such private owner has granted an
easement, duly recorded in the office of the Recorder of Greene County,
Indiana, for such private storm water system or drain.
   (D)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the private drain or private drainage system shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify the city for any loss or damage directly or indirectly
occasioned by the construction or installation of the private drain, including
backwater damages from the public storm water system.
   (E)   The connection or outlet of a storm water system or private drain into
the public storm water system shall conform to city specifications and
standards for storm drainage works. Any deviation of the prescribed procedure
or material must be approved by a duly authorized agent of the storm water
subdivision before installation.
   (F)   No person shall uncover, make any connection with or open into, use,
alter, or disturb any public storm water sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining authorization from the Utility Department.
   (G)   All excavations, construction, installation of private storm water
systems or drainage facilities shall be protected with barricades and lights to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in accordance
with the specifications and standards for storm drainage works of the city.
   (H)   All private construction and installation of storm water systems shall
include proper restoration and provisions for erosion and sediment control
according to specifications and standards for storm drainage works of the city.
   (I)   No property owner shall change the storm water runoff pattern of the
property of such owner in a way that neighboring properties, including, without
limitation, city properties, are affected adversely. Consideration and
provisions shall be made for storm water systems or drainage to and from
neighboring properties in connection with land alterations.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 56.20 DELINQUENT FEES AND PENALTIES AS LIENS.
   Delinquent charges for storm water user fee rates, services, applied
penalties, and recording fees shall constitute a lien upon the property and may
be collected hi accordance with provisions of I.C. 36-9-23-32 and 36-9-23-35.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 56.21 STORM WATER REVENUE FUND.
   All revenues and fees collected for storm water service, including but not
limited to storm water system user fees, penalties assessed by this chapter or
subsequent amendments, or interest earned on any unused funds shall be
deposited hi an account entitled “City of Linton Storm Water Revenue Fund” and
shah be subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended. Funds from this
account shall be accounted for as separate from other utility funds and shall
not be commingled with the funds of any other city utility division or
department or the general fund of the city and shall not be transferred for any
other purpose. To the extent that there are outstanding revenue bonds of the
city issued pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended, revenues
deposited in the Storm Water Revenue Fund shall be subject to the covenants
contained in the ordinance or ordinances authorizing such outstanding bonds.
Disbursements from the Storm Water Revenue Fund shall be authorized by the
Linton Clerk-Treasurer and, as required by law, the Council. Such disbursements
shall be used exclusively for the operation, maintenance, and improvement of
the city's Storm Water Subdivision, which uses include but are not limited to
the following;
   (A)   Storm water management services, such as public education and
outreach, studies, design, permit review, plan preparation, and development
review;
   (B)   Operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of the storm water
collection, storage, conveyance, and/or treatment infrastructure;
   (C)   Project costs related to constructing major or minor structural
improvements to the city's storm water system;
   (D)   Administrative costs associated with the management of the storm water
subdivision;
   (E)   Debt service financing of the city's storm water related capital
improvements;
   (F)   Funding of studies such as water quality, quality monitoring, and
aerial photography, all of which are associated with planning storm water
related infrastructure; and
   (G)   Implementing long range storm water plans developed and approved by
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management for elimination of combined
sewer overflows.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 56.99 VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Failure to pay a storm water user fee when due shall constitute a
violation of this chapter, and shall be enforced by the city and such persons
as the city may appoint for such purpose, and also shall include the cost of
recovery, including attorney fees, other costs of collection, and recording
fees.
   (B)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith hereby are
repealed. The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence, or provision of this
chapter shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter that
can be given effect without such invalid part or parts.
   (C)   This chapter shall be in full force and effect 30 days after its
passage, approval, recordings, and publications as provided by law.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-10-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
   
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
71.   PARKING RULES
   
72.   BIKES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
   
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Unnecessary vehicle entertainment and noise
   
70.02   Limitations of gross weight of motor vehicles
   
70.03   Speeding regulations
      
70.03.010   Municipal interests and scope
      
70.03.020   Speed limits in business, residential, and school districts
      
70.03.030   Speed limit signs
      
70.03.040   Penalties
      
70.03.050   Court filing
      
70.03.060   Default judgment; reporting to Indiana BMV
      
70.03.070   Deferral program
   
70.04   Regulation of traffic on school property
   
70.05   Regulation of traffic on private property
   
70.06   Traffic control device regulations
      
70.06.010   Municipal interest and scope
      
70.06.020   I.C. 9- 21-8-41(a)(b)(c)
      
70.06.030   Definitions
      
70.06.040   Traffic control device placement
      
70.06.050   Traffic control device standards
      
70.06.060   Penalties
      
70.06.070   Filing of summons and claim in Greene Superior Court
      
70.06.080   Default judgment; reporting to Indiana BMV
      
70.06.090   Deferral program
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 UNNECESSARY VEHICLE ENTERTAINMENT AND NOISE.
   (A)   Vehicles with radios or other stereo entertainment equipment played
with unnecessary volume are disruptive to the peace of the community;
disruptive to meetings and gatherings, disturbing to the citizens, a safety
hazard that renders the driver of the vehicle or other nearby vehicles unable
to hear emergency vehicle sirens or other warning devices; startling to
pedestrians or other drivers; and causes unnecessary vibrations to the windows
of houses and businesses, disturbing the persons inside the building.
   (B)   Semi-trucks that abuse the peace of the community or cause a
disturbance to the public or pedestrians by engine brake (known as jake
braking) with the city limits, shall also be considered as an operator or owner
of a vehicle and shall fall under the same guidelines used for vehicle
entertainment noises.
   (C)   If the operator or owner of a vehicle has been issued one written
warning from the Linton police due to unnecessary noises or annoying
vibrations, the second notification will consider the operator or owner of the
vehicle to be willfully disturbing or allowing disturbance of the peace,
disorderly conduct, and creating a public nuisance. The vehicle will be towed
away and owner will be responsible for towing and impoundment charges incurred.
(Ord. 80-6, passed 3-27-1980; Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 LIMITATIONS OF GROSS WEIGHT OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the content indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. Every individual who shall operate a vehicle as the owner thereof
or as the agent, employee, or permittee of the owner.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, permit, or suffer
any vehicle registered in his or her name or operated or controlled by him or
her to operate over or upon any street in the City of Linton a vehicle, the
gross weight of which is in excess of 8,000 pounds unless the street shall be
marked as a heavy weight vehicle route.
   (2)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Linton shall
designate suitable and convenient routes within the city over which vehicles in
excess of the 8,000-pound weight limit may be diverted and shall provide that
these routes be appropriately marked.
   (3)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the City of Linton, Indiana,
is authorized to issue permits to exceed the allowable weight limit upon proper
application by persons upon forms prescribed by the Board of Public Works and
Safety and upon the payment by the persons of the fees as may be designated by
the Board of Public Works and Safety. The Board of Public Safety shall
promulgate a table of rate charges for the issuance of the permits which rates
shall fairly compensate the City for damages caused to the streets by the
overweight vehicles.
   (4)   All permit fees paid under this section shall be paid by the Clerk-
Treasurer of the City of Linton into the Street Dep artment Fund of the City.
   (5)   This section shall take effect and be in force on and after its
passage, approval, and publication as provided by law.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, partnership, or corporation.
   STREET.  Any public street, avenue, road, boulevard, highway, or other
public place located in the City of Linton, Indiana, and established for the
use of vehicles, except highways in the state highway system and the state
maintained routes through the City of Linton, Indiana.
   VEHICLE.  Any device by which any person or property may be transported upon
a public highway, except those operated upon rails and permanent tracks, and
excepting those used exclusively by human power.
(Ord. 80-6, passed 3-27-1980); Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SPEEDING REGULATIONS.
70.03.010  Municipal Interests and Scope.
   The speed laws and regulations of the State of Indiana are not sufficient to
address certain local needs for speed regulation, particularly in business,
residential, and school districts within the City. As such, this Ordinance is
needed to address such local concerns and to develop procedures to enable
municipal enforcement of local speed regulations. The procedure for judicial
enforcement of speeding regulations is provided in Sections
70.03.050,
70.03.060, and
70.03.070, and any Section(s) of the Code inconsistent therewith shall not
apply to speed violations.
70.03.020 Speed Limits in Business, Residential, and School Districts.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle along or
upon any street or highway within the limits of the City of Linton, at a
greater speed than:
   (A)   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour in any business district of the City
of Linton, Indiana;
   (B)   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour in any residential district of the
City of Linton, Indiana;
   (C)   Twenty (20) miles per hour in the School district of the City of
Linton, Indiana;
   (D)   Fifteen (15) miles per hour in any park or alley within the City of
Linton, Indiana;
unless otherwise marked.
70.03.030 Speed Limit Signs.
   Appropriate signs shall be placed upon the approaches to the districts
described in this chapter showing the appropriate speed limit for that
district.
70.03.040 Penalties.
   (A)   Any person who violates any part of this chapter and is so cited by
the City Police may be assessed a fine of $50.00, in addition to any court
costs or fees assessed and/or collected by the Greene County Clerk's Office.
   (B)   Any person who contests the citation at trial, hearing, or other
contested proceeding shall be subject to an additional fee of $250.00 based
upon increased administrative costs and attorney fees, if that person is
determined by a judge, jury, or applicable trier-of-fact to have violated this
section of the Municipal Code.
70.03.050 Filing of Summons and Claim in Greene County Superior Court.
   Consistent with Indiana Code, the City shall cause a summons and appropriate
citation form to be filed with the Clerk of the Superior Court of Greene
County, Indiana, as soon after the issuance of the citation as reasonable
possible.
70.03.060 Default Judgment; Reporting to Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (A)   If the person fails to appear and pay the fine plus court costs, fails
to complete the process of deferral, and fails to obtain a continuance of the
hearing provided on the citation by the City Police officer, default judgment
shall be entered, a grace period of 30 days shall follow, and if the fines and
costs remain unpaid after 30 days, the Violations Bureau Clerk or Deputy Clerk
shall report the judgment to the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles, which shall
be authorized to impose a suspension of and/or any other applicable civil
penalty or consequence affecting the person's driving privileges.
   (B)   If the person voluntarily pays the fine and court costs on or before
the date/time provided on the citation, then the City and/or the Violations
Bureau Clerk shall report the judgment to the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles
and any other appropriate agency, and adverse consequences to the person's
driving privileges, driving record, and insurance premiums could result.
70.03.070 Deferral Program.
   (A)   The City shall offer a deferral program to each eligible person cited
under this Chapter. The deferral program will provide that the person not
violate any local, state, or federal law or regulation for a period of 6
months, among other terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the municipahty
and consistent with the law. So long as the person does not violate the
deferral agreement, the cause of action shall be dismissed as soon as
reasonable possible after the expiration of the deferral period.
   (B)   The City shall assess a minimum initial user's fee of $50.50, and a
minimum monthly user's fee of $60.00 ($10/month), all of which are due, along
with court costs and other applicable fees, at the time of submission of a
signed, dated agreement to the Clerk of the Superior Court of Greene County,
Indiana. As of the adoption of this Ordinance 2014-3, the total deferral
program fee would be $190.00. However, court costs and other applicable fees
are subject to change, and, as such, any increases in court costs and fees
shall increase the total deferral program fee accordingly.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 70.04 REGULATION OF TRAFFIC ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The regulations adopted by the Board of School Trustees (School Board)
of Linton-Stockton School Corporation (School) regulating vehicular parking,
traffic, and conduct related to safety upon property owned by the School, as
the regulations from time to time may be amended, shall be enforced by the City
as set forth in a certain agreement, Authorizing Regulation of Traffic on
School Property, entered or to be entered into by the City and the School
Board.
   (B)   The penalty for a violation of these regulations will be consistent
with the penalties for a violation of the City's traffic code.
(Ord. 2006-05, passed 9-11-2006; Ord. 2014-3, passed 4-14-2014); Penalty, §§
70.99,
71.99
§ 70.05 REGULATION OF TRAFFIC ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City has entered into certain agreements with property owners for
regulating vehicular parking, traffic, and conduct on private property. These
agreements are incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   The penalty for a violation of these regulations will be consistent
with the penalties for a violation of the City's traffic code.
(Ord. 2007-13, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 2014-3, passed 4-14-2014); Penalty, §§
70.99,
71.99
§ 70.06 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE REGULATIONS.
70.06.010 Municipal Interest.
   The Traffic Control Devices laws and regulations of the State of Indiana,
including I.C. 9-21-8- 41, do not specifically address or limit local traffic
regulation by traffic control devices and specific needs and interests of
municipahties in regulating compliance with traffic control devices, and, as
such, it is appropriate that the City pass certain measures providing for such
regulation on non-highways. The procedure for judicial enforcement of traffic
control device violations is provide in Sections
70.06.070,
70.06.080, and
70.06.090, and any Section(s) of the Code inconsistent therewith shall not
apply to traffic control device violations.
70.06.020 Traffic Control Devices; Instructions; Extraordinary Care; Safety
Controls - I.C. 9- 21-8-41(a)(b)(c).
   (A)   A person who drives a vehicle or street car may not disobey the
instructions of an official traffic control device placed in accordance with
this Chapter unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   All traffic shall observe and obey traffic control devices including
signals, signs, and warnings, and all directions, signs, or warning devices
that may be given or displayed by a law enforcement officer or flagman to
safely control traffic movement at a worksite and promote safety at a worksite.
   (C)   Residential districts have unique needs for the strict enforcement of
and compliance with traffic control devices in order to ensure the safety of
young children and families who may be pedestrians, bicychng, or otherwise
using public ways recreationally or for other frequent and common purpose, and,
as such, persons shall exhibit extraordinary care in such residential
districts.
70.06.030 Definitions.
   As used in Chapter 70.06 the term "Traffic Control Devices" shah mean signs,
signals, devices, or markings that:
   (1)   Designate through on all streets and highways of the City of Linton
and order stop signs, flashing signals or yield signs erected at specified
entrances thereto or designate any intersection as a stop intersection or a
yield intersection;
   (2)   Prohibit, restrict or regulate the operation of vehicles on any
controlled-access on all streets and highways of the City of Linton or the use
of any controlled-access on all streets and highways of the City of Linton by
any vehicle, device moved by human power or pedestrian;
   (3)   Authorize or restrict parking on all streets and highways of the City
of Linton.
70.06.040 Traffic Control Device Placement.
   As defined in
70.06.030 all signs, signals, devices, or markings shall be placed in such a
position and sufficiently legible that can be seen by an ordinary observant
person.
70.06.050 Traffic Control Device Standards.
   As defined in
70.06.030 all signs, signals, devices, or markings shall be of the shapes and
colors, and have the meanings as specified in the "Indiana Uniform Act
Regulating Traffic on Highways" and shall apply to all vehicles, device moved
by human power or pedestrians.
70.06.060 Penalties.
   (A)   Any person who violates any part of this Chapter and is so cited by
the Linton City Police may be assessed a fine of $50.00, in addition to any
court costs or fees assessed and/or collected by the Greene County Clerk's
Office
   (B)   Any person who contests the citation at trial, hearing, or other
contested proceeding shall be subject to an additional fee of $250 based upon
increased administrative costs and attorney fees, if that person is determined
by a judge, jury, or applicable trier-of-fact to have violated this Chapter of
the Municipal Code.
70.06.070 Filing of Summons and Claim in Greene County Superior Court.
   Consistent with Indiana Code, the City shall cause a summons and appropriate
citation form to be filed with the Clerk of the Superior Court of Greene
County, Indiana, as soon after the issuance of the citation as reasonably
possible.
   The City Police officer shall provide a court date and time at which the
person cited must appear, which appearance may not be dispensed with unless the
person: (A) tenders full payment for both the $50.00 fine and any applicable
court costs on or before such date/time; (B) the person enters into a deferral
program with the City, by completing the deferral program agreement, and
tendering full payment for the deferral program to the Clerk of the Superior
Court of Greene County, Indiana; or (C) the person obtains an Order continuing
the date/time signed by a judicial officer with requisite authority to grant a
continuance of a proceeding in the Superior Court of Greene County, Indiana.
70.06.080 Default Judgment; Reporting to Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (A)   If the person fails to appear and pay the fine plus court costs, fails
to complete the process of deferral, and fails to obtain a continuance of the
hearing provided on the citation by the City Police officer, default judgment
shall be entered, a grace period of 30 days shall follow, and, if the fines and
costs remain unpaid after 30 days, the Violations Bureau Clerk or Deputy Clerk
shall report the judgment to the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles, which shall
be authorized to impose a suspension of the person's driving privileges.
   (B)   If the person voluntarily pays the fine and court costs on or before
the date/time provided on the citation, then the City and/or the Violations
Bureau Clerk shall report the judgment to the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles
and any other appropriate agency, and adverse consequences to the person's
driving privileges, driving record, and insurance premiums could result.
70.06.090 Deferral Program.
   (A)   The City shall offer a deferral program to each eligible person cited
under this Chapter. The deferral program will provide that the person not
violate any local, state, or federal law or regulation for a period of 6
months, among other terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the municipahty
and consistent with the law. So long as the person does not violate the
deferral agreement, the cause of action shall be dismissed as soon as
reasonably possible after the expiration of the deferral period.
   (B)   The City shall assess a minimum initial user's fee of $50.50, and a
monthly user's fee of $60.00 ($10/month), all of which are due, along with
court costs and other applicable fees. As of the adoption of this Ordinance
2014-4, the total deferral program fee would be $190.00. However, court costs
and other applicable fees are subject to change, and, as such, any increases in
court costs and fees shall increase the total deferral program fee accordingly.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The operator or owner of the vehicle will be assessed a penalty of
$100 for the first offense and $250 for each offense after that; or other
penalties in compliance and in accordance with the laws of the State of
Indiana. Penalty must be satisfied with 30 days of date of violation.
(Ord. 97-3, passed 9-8-1998)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
70.02 shall upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of an amount not to
exceed $50 for each offense in violation.
(Ord. 80-6, passed 3-27-1980)
   (C)   For any penalties pertaining to §
70.03 and §
70.06, see §
70.03.040 and §
70.06.040.
(Ord. 80-12, passed 3-27-1980; Am. Ord. 2008-04, passed 6-9-2008; Ord. 2014-3,
passed 4-14-2014; Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-14-2014)
Cross-reference:
   
Chapter 73, Schedule II: Through/preferential streets
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES
Section
   
71.01   Regulating downtown parking
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross- reference:
   For regulation of parking on school property and enforcement, see §
70.04
§ 71.01 REGULATING DOWNTOWN PARKING.
   (A)   Parking position.
      (1)   A vehicle stopped or parked along a street or roadway shall be
stopped or parked with the curbside wheels of the vehicle parallel to and
within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The Linton Street Department shall place or cause to be placed
lines or markings painted upon the curb or upon the street within the limited
parking zones, designating each parking space. Each vehicle parked within the
limited parking zone shall park within the lines or markings, in a position
that the vehicle shall rest entirely within the space designated by the lines
or markings.
   (B)   Restricted parking. No person shall park a vehicle at the following
locations:
      (1)   Within five feet of either side of a public or private driveway, or
in front of a public or private driveway;
      (2)   Within five feet of any alley opening;
      (3)   In part of in whole upon any sidewalk;
      (4)   Upon curbing;
      (5)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; and
      (6)   On or across a crosswalk.
   (C)   Handicapped parking zones.
      (1)   Power to grant. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and empowered to
grant to physically handicapped persons the exclusive use of parking space
adjacent to their residence and/or place of employment, subject to the rules
and regulations as the City of Linton may prescribe in areas where the parking
is otherwise permitted and not restricted, in the manner provided herein.
      (2)   Designated parking spaces. The City of Linton Street Department
shall designate other parking spaces, within the limited parking zone, as it
determines to be necessary and appropriate to provide for handicapped parking
within the limited parking zone. The designated parking spaces shall be
identified by application of contrasting paint and handicap emblem to the
pavement and by placement of an upright handicapped parking sign.
      (3)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS. Any person certified by a qualified
physician to be disabled in a manner rendering it impossible or difficult and
burdensome for him or her to walk, during an extended calendar period (for
example one year).
      (4)   Written application. Any person eligible by virtue of a physical
handicap for special privileges, pursuant to this section shall present to the
Clerk-Treasurer a written application, on a form to be furnished by the Clerk-
Treasurer, for a permit entitling that person to the exclusive use for a period
of one calendar year from the date of issue of one parking space adjacent to
the applicant's place of residence and/or place of employment.
      (5)   Prohibited. No person shall park a vehicle upon a handicapped
parking space whose vehicle does not bear a license plate designating
handicapped occupant; or a placard designating handicapped occupant, which
placard has been issued by an appropriate state, county, or city agency.
   (D)   Effective date. The provisions contained herein shall become effective
upon posting of signs giving notice of this section.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 4-10-1995) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty; appeal.
      (1)   Violation of any provision hereof constitutes a traffic violation,
subject to a base fine of $15. The fine shall remain $15, if paid within 3
business days after the date and time of issue. A business day shall be defined
as Monday through Friday, excluding city holidays (New Year's Day, Good Friday,
Primary Election Day, Election Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Columbus Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas).
      (2)   The fine shall increase automatically to $25 if the fine is paid
after the end of the third business day following the date of the citation, but
before the end of the sixth business day following the date issuance of the
citation.
      (3)   The fine shall increase automatically to $35 if not paid within 30
calendar days following the date of citation.
      (4)   An individual may challenge and/ or appeal the issuance of a
traffic violation citation and/or automatic escalation of fine, by appearing in
person before the City Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designee, on or before
the third business day following the date of the citation, between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer located at
86 South Main Street, Linton, Indiana. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall conduct
an informal hearing, which may be reconvened from time to time, and the Clerk-
Treasurer shall have authority to declare the citation void or valid. If the
Clerk-Treasurer declares the citation void, the citation shall be dismissed
from further prosecution. If the Clerk-Treasurer declares the citation to be
valid, the citation shall be due and payable as determined by the City Clerk-
Treasurer. The decision of the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be final, subject to
judicial determination upon prosecution.
      (5)   An individual may challenge the parking violation citation,
provided that he or she is the owner of the vehicle and/or was responsible for
the vehicle at the time of issuance of the citation. An individual may
challenge in person or be representation of his or her attorney.
   (B)   Parking citation.
      (1)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall promulgate a parking citation form.
The form of the citation shall set forth the date and time the citation was
issued; the vehicle and license plate number to which the citation was issued;
the amount of fine; the time for payment of fine and for escalation of fine;
and the business address and hours of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The Linton City Police, or other traffic enforcement officer as may
be designated by the City Council, is authorized to notify persons violating
any provision of §
71.01, by affixing to the violating vehicle a traffic citation in the form of
and containing the information set forth in §
71.01 hereof.
      (3)   The police or other parking enforcement officer shall maintain a
separate report of citations issued. The separate report shall contain the date
and time the citation was issued; the make and license number of the offending
vehicle; and the location where parked. The police or other parking enforcement
officer shall provide the separate reports to the City Clerk-Treasurer on a
daily basis.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 4-10-1995; Am. Ord. 2008- 04, passed 6-9-2008)
CHAPTER 72: BIKES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Ruling off-road vehicles in city limits
Golf Carts on Public Highways and Roads
   
72.10   Definitions
   
72.11   Implementation
   
72.12   Equipment and operation
   
72.13   Permits
   
72.14   Unattended golf carts
   
72.15   Use on sidewalks and other areas prohibited
   
72.16   Operational times and procedure
   
72.17   Special events
   
72.18   Enforcement
   
72.19   Does not regulate
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 RULING OFF-ROAD VEHICLES IN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   This section's intent is to show enforcement of I.C. 14-16. Regulation
of land, I.C. 14-16-1-22, pertains to a county, city, or town passing an
ordinance regulating the operation of vehicles if the ordinance meets
substantially the minimum requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   A county, city, or town may pass an ordinance of vehicles if the
ordinance meets substantially the minimum requirements of this chapter.
However, a county, city, or town may not adopt an ordinance that does any of
the following:
      (1)   Imposes a fee for a license; and
      (2)   Specifies accessory equipment to be carried on the vehicles.
(Ord. 00-3, passed 1-10-2000)
GOLF CARTS ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS AND ROADS
§ 72.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing two nontandem
wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and that has the
following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour when operated on a
paved level surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to
in division (1) above, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
See I.C. 9-13-2-49.3.
   GOLF CART. A four wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course. See I.C. 9- 13-2-69.7.
   PERMIT. A document issued by the City of Linton, Indiana, to signify that a
golf cart has been inspected and at the time of inspection met the requirements
of this subchapter and applicable law.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part of the way is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel. The term includes an alley in a city or town.
The terms STREET'and HIGHWAY axe limited to those under the jurisdiction of the
City of Linton, Indiana. See I.C. 9-13-2-175.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 72.11 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3, this subchapter is established to regulate
the use of golf carts on highways under the jurisdiction of the City of Linton,
Indiana.
   (B)   Pursuant to. I.C. 9-21-1-3, the City of Linton,- Indiana, will erect
signage consistent with applicable law to give notice of golf cart usage on the
highways under the jurisdiction of the city. No permit shall be issued until
this section is complied with.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 72.12 EQUIPMENT AND OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart that does not have a valid driver
license. See I.C. 9-24-1-7.
   (B)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any highway or street without
proof of valid insurance in their possession.
   (C)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any highway or street in excess
of the posted speed limits.
   (D)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any highway or street that does
not either:
      (1)   Display a slow moving vehicle sign pursuant to I.C. 9-21-9-2, which
states in relevant part:
         (a)   The vehicle shall display a triangular slow moving vehicle
emblem mounted as near as is practicable to the center of mass and at an
approximate height of not less than three and not more than five feet from
level ground or pavement surface.
         (b)   The emblem shall be mounted so as to be entirely visible from
the rear, day or night; or
      (2)   Display an amber flashing lamp at all times. The red or amber
light's specification are pursuant to I.C. 9-21-9-4, which states in relevant
part:
         An amber flashing lamp mounted at a height as low as practicable that
is visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the rear.
   (E)   No person shall operate a golf cart on.any highway or street that does
not have, lighted headlights and taillights at all times, day or night, and
said light must conform to the requirement of this subchapter.
      (1)   Headlights shall be of a white or clear light and must be capable
of iUunhnating the road ahead during hours of darkness and be observed at a
distance of 500 feet. Headlights must be properly adjusted as to not impair the
operation of other vehicles on the highway or street.
      (2)   Taillights shall be red in color and be observable to a distance of
500 feet at night.
   (F)   An operator or a passenger must remain seated at all times that a golf
cart is in motion.
   (G)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any highway or street that is
not equipped with rear view mirror.
   (H)   Any person operating a golf cart that is involved in a collision or
crash or incident with the property of another person that causes damage to the
golf cart will be responsible for cleaning and containing any debris that
results from that crash or incident.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-8-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PERMITS
   (A)   A Golf Cart must have a permit allowing it to be operated upon High
Ways and Streets issued by the City of Linton, Indiana, for the current
calendar year. Failure to have a permit shall result in a penalty as set out in
§
72.99.
   (B)   A permit shall be valid for a period of one year.
   (C)   A permit shall be plainly visible on the front cowling as to be
plainly seen.
   (D)   The permit shall be valid from April 1 through March 31 of each
consecutive year.
   (E)   Permit fees:
      (1)   The permit fee shall be $50.00.
      (2)   The annual fee for renewal of an unexpired permit shall be $25.00.
   (F)   Visitor Passes:
      (1)   A visitor is defined as a person who does not have a Linton,
Indiana, residence address.
      (2)   The fee for a 3 consecutive day pass may be purchased by a visitor
and will be considered a "Visitor Pass".
       (3)   The cost of a Visitor Pass shall be $15.00.
   (G)   Inspection requirements:
      (1)   The Golf Cart shall have proof of ownership and insurance, pursuant
to Sec. I, present at time of inspection.
      (2)   The application form for that purpose must be completed and signed
by the owner.
      (3)   The proper fee must be paid to the City Clerk, prior to issuance of
the permit.
      (4) The inspection requirements can be obtained from the Mayor's Office.
   (H)   The application fee is nonrefundable.
   (I)   Insurance Specification:
      The coverage for the Golf Cart at a minimum will be as follows:
      $25,000 per person, for bodily injury you cause,
      $50,000 per accident, for bodily injury, and
      $10,000 per accident, for damage to another's property.
   (J)   The Chief of Police or his/her designee shall inspect Golf Carts
during the normal business hours Monday through Friday by appointment.
   (K)   The permit will be issued by the Clerk Treasurer's Office only after
it is con firmed that all requirements have been met for the permit.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-8-2010; Am. Ord. 2012-03, passed 3-12-2012; Am. Ord.
2012-10, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 72.14 UNATTENDED GOLF CARTS.
   No person shall leave or allow any golf cart owned or operated by him/
herself to remain unattended on any highway or street while the motor is
running or the starting key is in the ignition.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-8-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 USE ON SIDEWALKS AND OTHER AREAS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart upon any sidewalk, pedestrian way
or upon the area between the sidewalk and the curb line of any street in the
city, except as specifically authorized for the purpose of legally crossing the
street, to obtain immediate access to an area where the golf cart is authorized
to operate.
   (B)   Operation prohibited in certain areas:
      (1)   No person may operate a golf cart for any reason on the following
streets:
         (a)   Any street where operation is prohibited by a posted sign.
         (b)   State Road 54 and 59 on their entire length.
      (2)   Except for the intersection of State Road 54 and 59, any street or
highway may be driven across from one side to the other at the intersections.
      (3)   No person may operate a golf card in the following areas, unless
authorization is first obtained from the City Council:
         (a)   Any city parks.
         (b)   Any city cemeteries.
         (c)   Any property owned or leased by the city.
         (d)   Anywhere in the city on the grass skirt area between the street
and sidewalk.
   (C)   No person shall fail to obey any sign, marker or speed limit or other
control device erected in accordance with this or any other applicable law.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-8-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 OPERATIONAL TIMES AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Carts shall be operated on the extreme right side of the roadway and
travel with the flow of traffic.
   (B)   Carts shall be operated in, single file with headlights and taillights
in operation at all times, day or night.
   (C)   If a trailer is towed behind, the trailer must conform to all lighting
requirements for carts.
   (D)   Cart operators shall yield the right-of-way to all other vehicular
traffic and pedestrians.
   (E)   Carts violating any of the above conditions will be subject to the
penalties outlined in this chapter.
   (F)   Carts operated on any portion of any roadway or shoulder of a highway
pursuant to this subchapter shall observe the posted speed limit for that
roadway.
   (G)   Carts will only be allowed to be operated on highways and streets one-
half hour after sunrise and one-half hour before sunset.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-8-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   No person shall operate a golf cart during a special event, such as but not
limited to parades and music festivals, unless they present a valid driver
license and proof of insurance to the Police Department before operating the
golf cart.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-8-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be enforced by any taw enforcement officer of
the city or other local, county, or state law enforcement officers.
   (B)   The violations of this subchapter shall be cited on either form
promulgated by the city or on standard traffic ticket promulgated by the state.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-8-2010) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 DOES NOT REGULATE.
   (A)   No part of this subchapter shall be construed as placing any
restrictions on the use of or operation of electric personal assistive mobility
devices.
   (B)   No part of this subchapter shall be construed as placing any
restriction on the use of or operation of golf carts by law enforcement
agencies.
   (C)   No part of this subchapter shall be construed as placing any
restriction on the use of or operation of golf carts on golf courses.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any section of §§
72.10 et seq. shall result in a fine as follows:
      (1)   $100 for the first offense within a two-year period;
      (2)   $200 for the second offense within a two-year period and the loss
of the permit; and
      (3)   $300 for the third offense within a two-year period and the golf
cart shall be impounded.
   (B)   A person operating a golf cart without a permit shall be fined
consistent with division (A) and shall be suspended from eligibility to apply
for a permit for a period of 365 days from the date of the violation(s).
   (C)   This section does not preclude or preempt any other penalties or fines
that may be imposed by applicable law.
   (D)   A golf cart may be impounded if a person violates any provision of §§
72.10 et seq. or any other applicable law.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-8-2010)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   Schedule
   
I. Through/preferential streets
   
II. Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH/PREFERENTIAL STREETS.
 
Street           Ord. No. Date Passed
"A" Street NE    80-12    03-27-1980
Main Street      80-12    03-27-1980
Vincennes Street 80-12    03-27-1980
 
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Streets Street Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Streets                   Street Direction     Ord. No. Date Passed
3rd and "D" Street        4-way                96-8     08-12-1996
5th and "F" Street        Northeast            2005-05  05-09-2005
"E" Street                Northeast            2005-05  05-09-2005
NE 7tb Street             North and South only 96-8     08-12-1996
NE 9th Street             4-way                96-8     08-12-1996
SE 6th Street and SE "A"  4-way                96-8     08-12-1996
SE 8th Street             4-way                96-8     08-12-1996
SE 10th Street and SE "A" 4-way                96-8     08-12-1996
 
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
   Schedule
   
I. No parking zones
   
II. Limited parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   The streets or parts of streets described below are designated as no parking
zones. When appropriate signs are erected, no person shall park a vehicle upon
any of the streets or parts of streets at any time.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 4-10-1995)
Street From To Side of Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Street        From          To            Side of Street Ord. No. Date Passed
1st Street NE A Street NE   E Vincennes   East           95-5     4-10-1995
A Street NW   1st Street NW N Main        North          95-5     4-10-1995
A Street NW   1st Street NW N Main        South          95-5     4-10-1995
A Street NE   N Main        1st Street NE South          95-5     4-10-1995
N Main        A Street NW   N 200 ft      West           95-5     4-10-1995
N Main        A Street NE   S 200 ft      East           95-5     4-10-1995
SMain         A Street SW   S 100 ft      West           95-5     4-10-1995
S Main        A Street SE   S 100 ft      East           95-5     4-10-1995
 
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   The streets or parts of streets described in Schedule B attached to
and made a part of this ordinance are designated limited parking zones. When
appropriate signs are erected, no person shall park a vehicle upon any of the
streets or parts of streets designated in the schedule for a period of time
longer than two hours. The limited parking zones as designated in the schedule
may or may not be regulated by parking meters.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle within the same 100 block of any street
during any calendar day after the two-hour time limit set forth in division (A)
hereof has expired, during the hours that the restrictions on parking are in
effect.
   (C)   After the two-hour time limit has expired, a separate additional
violation occurs for each two-hour period of time for which the vehicle remains
parked in the limited parking zone to which the limit applies.
   (D)   The limitations on parking set forth in this section shall apply
Monday through Saturday from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 4-10-1995)
Street From To Side of Street Time of Restriction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street      From        To            Side of Time of     Ord. No. Date Passed
                                      Street  Restriction
1st Street              East
NE, from    A Street NE Vincennes     West    2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
Alley
A Street SE S Main      1st Street    South   2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
A Street SE N Main      1st Street SE North   2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
A Street SW 1st Street  N Main        North   2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
            SW
E Vincennes N Main      1st Street NE North   2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
E Vincennes S Main      1st Street NE South   2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
N Main      B Street NE A Street NE   East    2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
N Main      B Street NE A Street NW   West    2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
N Main      A Street NE Vincennes     East    2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
N Main      A Street NW Vincennes     West    2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
S Main      E Vincennes A Street SE   East    2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
S Main      W Vincennes A Street Sw   West    2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
W Vincennes 1st Street  N Main        North   2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
            NW
W Vincennes 1st Street  S Main        South   2 hours     95-5     4-10-1995
            SW
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
   
92.   FAIR HOUSING
   
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; EXCAVATIONS IN PUBLIC PLACES
   
94.   HEALTH, SANITATION; NUISANCES
   
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
96.   CEMETERIES
   
97.   TREES, SHRUBS AND WEEDS
   
98.   EMERGENCY SERVICE COST REIMBURSEMENT
   
99.   PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT SIGNAGE
   
100.   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM POLICY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Running-at-large
   
90.03   Impoundment
   
90.04   Fees
   
90.05   Resistance or obstruction; unlawful
   
90.06   Vaccination
   
90.07   Rabies; method of handling suspected dogs
   
90.08   Agent
   
90.09   Displaying license and rabies tag
   
90.10   Abandoning dogs and domestic animals
   
90.11   Control of animals within city limits
   
90.12   Disruptive animals and proper care of animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals and parks, see §
95.04
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his or her immediate family either by leash, cord chain or
under reasonable control of some competent person.
   DOG. Both male and female.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Both male and female.  DOMESTIC ANIMAL shall include: dogs,
felines, horse, mare, colt, mule, jackass, jenny, bull, cow, ox, calf, goat,
sheep or swine, chickens or fowls.
   HARBORING. Any person who shall suffer or permit any dog to frequent or
remain on or within his or her house, building, premises or enclosure shall be
deemed to be HARBORING the dog within the meaning of this chapter.
   OWNER. Any person keeping or harboring a dog.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. A person shall be deemed to have an animal UNDER RESTRAINT
when the animal is so confined by a building, fence, rope, chain or leash that
is sufficient to maintain the animal within the enclosure or confinement of the
person responsible for the animal.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 90.02 RUNNING-AT-LARGE.
   No person owning or having charge, care, custody or control of any dog or
other domestic animal shall cause, permit or allow the same to be or to run-at-
large upon any street, sidewalk, alley, public place, or upon the private
property of another without the consent of the owner of the property within the
City of Linton, Indiana.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Dogs or other animals found to be running-at-large and now under
restraint, as provided, herein, shall be taken by an agent of the City of
Linton, Indiana, and impounded for a period of not less than five days or until
the time as claimed by the owner thereof.
   (B)   The person in charge of impounding dogs and other animals shall, upon
receiving any dog or other animal, make a complete registry entering the breed,
color and sex of the dog or other animal. If tagged, the name and address of
the owner shall be entered into the registry.
   (C)   Any dog or other animal so impounded under the provisions of this
section and not reclaimed by the owner or agent thereof within five days may be
placed in the custody of some suitable person who will pay an amount equal to
the boarding cost of the dog or other animal plus the charges as may be
necessary to insure proper rabies inoculation of the dog or other animal for a
new owner, and who will agree to comply with the provisions of this section,
and provide a good home for the animal; or the animals may be humanely
destroyed and disposed of.
   (D)   Immediately upon the impounding of dogs or other animals, the agent of
the City of Linton, Indiana, shall make every effort possible to notify the
owner of the dog or other animal so impounded and shall notify the owner of the
conditions under which he or she may regain custody of his or her animal.
   (E)   The owner of any animal impounded under the provisions of this section
shall be entitled to resume possession of the animal upon the payment of the
impounding fee, and any extra-ordinary expenses incurred by the agent of the
City of Linton, Indiana, in providing proper care for the animal.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 90.04 FEES.
   Any animal impounded under the terms of this chapter may be reclaimed as
heretofore provided upon the payment by the owner or person reclaiming the
animal, to the Violations Clerk of the City of Linton, Indiana, the sum of $15
for each animal so impounded to which may be added an additional sum of $2 for
each day or part thereof that the animal impounded and upon proof of rabies
vaccine shots, as required by state statue, have been provided for the dog or
other animal and failing to make the proof an additional charge may be made for
the actual cost of inoculation of the dog or other animal.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 90.05 RESISTANCE OR OBSTRUCTION; UNLAWFUL.
   No person shall resist or obstruct the agent of the City of Linton, or an
employee of the City of Linton, Indiana, in the exercise of his or her duties
as agent of the City of Linton, Indiana, and, or employees of the City of
Linton, Indiana.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 VACCINATION.
   No owner of any dog shall keep, maintain or harbor the dog unless it shall
have been vaccinated by a licensed veterinary surgeon with anti-rabies vaccine
within one year preceding the date on which the dog is kept, maintained or
harbored.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 RABIES; METHOD OF HANDLING SUSPECTED DOGS.
   Any dog or domestic animal believed to have rabies or to have been bitten by
any animal suspected of having rabies, or if a dog or domestic animal is
suspected of biting a human being the dog shall be impounded for a period of 15
days by the agent of the City of Linton and kept separated from all other
animals in the impoundment, and the owner of the dog or domestic animal shall
pay to the Violations Clerk the sum of $2 per day, impoundment fee, in addition
to additional fines or extraordinary costs that may be assessed by virtue of
violation of any section of this chapter.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 90.08 AGENT.
   For the purposes of the enforcement of this chapter, the provisions may be
enforced by any agent appointed for the purpose of enforcement of the chapter
and, or any police officer of the City of Linton, Indiana.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 90.09 DISPLAYING LICENSE AND RABIES TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, harbors or maintains any
domestic animal to fail to have the license tags and rabies vaccination tag
affixed to the animal at all times.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984) Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.10 ABANDONING DOGS AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon a dog or domestic animal
within the city limits of the City of Linton, Indiana.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984) Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.11 CONTROL OF ANIMALS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Kennels. It shall be illegal to operate an animal kennel within the
city limits of Linton, Indiana.
   (B)   Limitations. No person shall own/possess a total of three adult dogs
at any time within the city limits of Linton, Indiana. For the purpose of
defining adult dog, this will be any dog over six months of age.
   (C)   Effective date. This chapter shall be in effect upon adoption by the
Common Council for the City of Linton.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984; Am. Ord. 00-5, passed 5-8-2000)
§ 90.12 DISRUPTIVE ANIMALS AND PROPER CARE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Actions by animals constituting a public nuisance. Any animal within
the city or its statutory boundaries, is deemed to be a public nuisance that:
      (1)   Interferes with a person passing by or passing vehicles.
      (2)   Attacks other animals or persons.
      (3)   Damages private or public property.
      (4)   Barks, whines, howls, cries, whimpers, or makes other sounds common
to its species, continuously for 15 minutes or for an aggregate 20 minutes in a
one-hour period.
      (5)   Defecates upon public or private property, and the owner fails or
refuses to clean up the pet's mess.
   (B)   Actions by humans constituting a public nuisance: proper conduct,
care, and treatment of animals.
      (1)   Should any part of this section be violated, the person in
violation is deemed to be creating, maintaining, or failing to cure a public
nuisance. Every person responsible for any animal located within the city or
its statutory boundaries shall ensure the general well-being of an animal in
their charge. Cruelty, neglect, abandon, torture, or other abuse of an animal
is strictly prohibited.
      (2)   It is hereby ordained that such animal:
         (a)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner, and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in excrement.
         (b)   Has sufficient wholesome food and water which is proper and
nutritional for that species of animal.
         (c)   Has a proper and adequate structure provided that is kept in a
sanitary manner and that will protect the animal from all elements of the
weather and will allow the animal to stand, sit and lie down without
restriction.
         (d)   Receives proper veterinary care as necessary to treat illness,
disease and/or injury, to prevent the transmission of disease to other animals
or human beings and to promote good animal health.
         (e)   Is not beaten, cruelly treated, overloaded, overworked or
otherwise abused.
         (f)   Is not abandoned, neglected or tortured.
         (g)   Does not become a public nuisance under the Linton City Code,
Indiana Code, or otherwise.
         (h)   Does not bite, kick, butt, claw, assault, attack, or otherwise
create a danger to the health and/or safety of other animals or human beings.
         (i)   Is properly vaccinated and/or licensed as required by law.
         (j)   Is prevented from running at large on property other than
private property owned or lawfully occupied by its owner by means of a leash,
animal-appropriate chain, or other appropriate physical restraint.
         (k)   Is not left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal.
         (l)   Is not transported in the open bed of a vehicle unless confined
in an appropriate manner so as to reasonably prevent the animal from jumping or
being thrown from same.
         (m)   Does not defecate on the property of another unless the person
responsible for the animal immediately thereafter removes or has removed from
such property as much of the feces as is reasonably possible.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 11-13-2006) Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who is in violation of §§
90.01 through
90.11 and who has been cited by Linton City Police for the violation shall pay
a fine of $25 to the Violations Clerk within 30 days of the date on which the
person was so cited.
      (2)   Any person or persons who violates §§
90.01 through
90.11 and who fails to comply with division (A) immediately above, upon being
found guilty of the violation may be fined in any amount of from $25 to $100.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-9-1984)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who maintains a public nuisance, as defined in §
90.12, shall be fined as follows: Each violation shall be fined in a sum not
less than $100 nor more than $2,500, and each day's violation shall constitute
a separate violation.
      (2)   Upon a finding that a person has maintained a public nuisance, as
defined in §
90.12, a court of competent jurisdiction may order relinquishment of the animal
(s) deemed to be a public safety risk and/or a repetitive public nuisance that
has not been abated, or an animal that is a victim of cruelty, neglect, or
abandonment, to a city authorized placement.
      (3)   Upon a finding that a person has maintained a public nuisance, as
defined in §
90.12, pertaining to public safety or animal cruelty or neglect, the court may
order the person to not own an animal for a determinate period of time.
      (4)   In the event that an animal is retained at the city authorized
placement because its owner has been in violation of §
90.12 or any other applicable law, the person redeeming the animal by paying
the prescribed, fines, administrative fees, and court costs, shall also be
subject to paying for medical bills incurred for testing, routine shots,
vaccinations, and parasite remedies for the animal, and any other necessary
medical treatment while the animal is maintained at the city authorized
placement.
      (5)   Upon a finding that a person has maintained a public nuisance, as
defined in §
90.12, a court of competent jurisdiction may order the immediate impounding of
any animal(s).
      (6)   Upon a finding that a person has maintained a public nuisance, as
defined in §
90.12, a court of competent jurisdiction may order that the person pay
reasonable attorney's fees and costs to the city in the minimum amount of $500,
for enforcement of §
90.12.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 1-13-2006)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   91.01   Definitions
   91.02   Open burning restricted; general prohibitions
   91.03   Limited burning for special purposes
   91.04   Emergency burning
   91.05   Liability
   91.06   Permitted burning
   91.07   Enforcement of open burning
   91.08   Fireworks and pyrotechnics
   91.09   Collection of fines
   91.10   Act responsibly
 
   91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT. Equipment sufficient and appropriate under
the circumstances to extinguish a fire, such as a hose with close connected
water supply, shovel, extinguisher, salt, or other appropriate fire prevention
and firefighting equipment.
   BARBECUE PIT OR GRILL. A stationary or portable device, with either
electric, gas or charcoal fuel, used for the preparation of food.
   CLEAN PETROLEUM PRODUCTS. An uncontaminated, refined petroleum product, such
as kerosene or diesel fuel, not previously used in any application.
   CLEAN WOOD PRODUCTS. Wood products, including vegetation that are not coated
in any manner with stain, paint, glue, varnish, and the like, or treated with
petroleum products as in railroad ties.
   EMERGENCY BURNING. The burning of clean wood waste or deceased animals
caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the following:
      (1)   Tornado;
      (2)   High winds;
      (3)   Earthquake;
      (4)   Explosion; and
      (5)   Hail, ice, or rain storm.
   HAZARDOUS CONDITION.  A situation where the Fire Department Officer in
charge determines that the fire may be capable of spreading or damaging other
property or that the smoke emissions may be offensive to occupants of
surrounding property.
   OPEN BURN(ING).  
      (1)   The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants resulting
from combustion are emitted directly into the air, without passing through a
stack, duct, pipe, chimney, or from an enclosed chamber. The term includes
above-ground and under-ground smoldering fires.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 14-23-7-5, a person who commits the following
Class C misdemeanor:
         (a)   Throws from a vehicle: matches, ashes, or burning material; and/
or
          (b)   Conducts open burning.
   RECREATIONAL OR CAMP FIRE. The burning of wood products other than refuse
where the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor
fireplace, barbecue grill or barbecue pit. A RECREATIONAL OR CAMP FIRE shall
have a total fuel area no greater than 36 inches in diameter and a fuel load
not to exceed two feet in height.
   REFUSE. Garbage, rubbish, paper, leaves, grass, trade waste, trash, plastic,
or other waste products.
   SMOKE NUISANCE. Smoke emissions may be deemed a nuisance when a complaint is
received that the smoke emissions are offensive to the complaining party.
   WARNING. At the discretion of the Fire Chief for the City of Linton, each
individual or group of individuals may be given a warning regarding open
burning. Any situation where City Fire Department personnel are called more
than one time in a period of one year for open burning to the same person or
group of persons, those persons will be found to be violating this chapter and
will be fined accordingly. If the problem persists, the City of Linton will
criminally prosecute the person(s) pursuant to I.C. 14-23-7-5.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 91.02 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful at all times to cause or allow any open burning
at any place within the City of Linton except as permitted herein; provided, no
person shall cause, allow or permit the emission into the atmosphere of any
substance or combination of substances from the burning of any product that
causes annoyance or constitutes a nuisance so as to interfere with the health
or well-being of any individual in his or her home or place of employment or
recreation or as to interfere with the normal use and enjoyment of any such
place. The burning of garbage is expressly prohibited.
   (B)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as humid days, ozone warning times/days, temperature
inversions, high winds, drought conditions, air stagnation, or when any
governmental entity determines or issues a warning or prohibition against
burning due to weather or potential dangers.
   (C)   At no time will any person burn the following:
      (1)   Tires;
      (2)   Unclean petroleum products (such as used oil, tar, grease, or
petrol);
      (3)   Asbestos (such as vinyl siding, asphalt, roofing shingles,
insulation, plastics, coated wiring, and floor tile);
      (4)   Treated, varnished, painted, or glued wood products;
      (5)   Household or business refuse or garbage;
      (6)   Railroad ties;
      (7)   Chemicals; and/or
      (8)   Paint in any form (such as cans, demolished buildings with painted
materials, fencing that has been treated or painted, cans of unused paint,
empty paint cans).
   (D)   No person or business shall kindle or maintain any open burning
consisting of refuse, trash, or garbage fire, leaf fire, bonfire, or other open
burning. No burning of any kind, except small charcoal grills, may be conducted
at any time in mobile home parks, apartment complexes, condominium complexes,
or buildings of more than four dwellings pursuant to the laws of the State of
Indiana.
   (E)   All burning of any type must be done in a noncombustible and
ventilated container, such as a steel or metal drum, with enclosed sides and
bottom. Burning on the ground is illegal in the State of Indiana.
   (F)   No one will burn any item directly on asphalt pavement.
   (G)   No burning will be done within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery,
daycare facility, playground, or park, or any place where the health and safety
of adults and children would be jeopardized.
   (H)   No open burning will be permitted in a densely wooded area.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-14-2005) Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.03 LIMITED BURNING FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Open burning which does not create a nuisance or a fire hazard and
which is attended by a responsible person at all times until completely
extinguished is allowed for the following purposes:
      (1)   Ceremonial fires and bonfires. A bonfire in connection with a
religious ceremony, school pep rallies, scouting activities, and similar
purposes, or other purposes approved by the Linton Fire Department;
      (2)   Camp fires and fires for cookouts; however, the total width of the
fire cannot exceed 36 inches in all directions and cannot exceed two feet in
height;
      (3)   Open burning of vegetative matter grown on the premises in the
course of agricultural operations, or to clear drainage ditches, when it can be
shown that open burning is necessary and that no fire hazard will occur,
provided the person intending to dispose of vegetative matter by open burning
has obtained prior approval from the City Fire Department;
      (4)   Any burning of vegetative matter as provided in division (A)(3)
above shall be allowed only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and
only at times when the actual or forecast wind speed as given by the local
National Weather Service is less than 20 mph. Such fires shall consist of
vegetative matter only. Fires must be completely extinguished before 6:00 p.m.;
      (5)   Stoves for heating and fireplaces. Fires shall be permitted in wood
stoves for heating and fireplaces if the fire does not create an air pollution
problem or a fire hazard; and
      (6)   Charcoal grills may be used. Hot charcoals are not to be dumped
onto the ground while hot. The charcoal must be completely extinguished after
use.
   (B)   Burning other than mentioned in this section may be permitted provided
a variance, pursuant to 326 I.A.C. 4-1-1, has been approved and received from
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management. Burning must meet the
restrictions of the variance. The variance must be registered with the City of
Linton Fire Department and a copy present at the burn site for verification.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 91.04 EMERGENCY BURNING.
   (A)   The Mayor or the Linton Fire Department Chief may allow emergency
burning of petroleum products, high explosives, or other dangerous materials
where the fires are properly controlled by a responsible person and are deemed
necessary in the public interest.
   (B)   The Mayor may allow open burning of refuse consisting or material
resulting from a disaster if the Mayor has declared a disaster in the area and
has conferred with the proper State and County officials, if the situation
permits. Otherwise, in the event of emergency, the Mayor will consult with the
Fire Department Chief to determine the necessity and risk to human life and
property.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 91.05 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible
material which constitutes or contributes to a fire shall not be excused from
responsibility on the basis that the fire was accidental or an act of God. This
section is to be considered in conjunction with Ordinance # 2005-1 Blighted
Property and §§ 97.15 et seq.
   (B)   The person in possession of property and the landowner, where open
burning in violation of this chapter and its regulations occurs, shall both be
prima facie liable for the violation.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-14-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 PERMITTED BURNING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, burning shall be
permitted within the City of Linton if the burning is in an incinerator
approved by the state pursuant to a permit issued by a state agency as
authorized by law pursuant to I.C. 13-20-8. Any other burning must be by permit
issued from the City of Linton Fire Department. All persons who wish to open
burn must contact the Linton Fire Department not less than 24 hours before the
burn is to take place. If no permit is issued, and the burn occurs, it is an
automatic violation of this section.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 91.07 ENFORCEMENT OF OPEN BURNING.
   The open burning provisions of this chapter are enforceable by the officers
of the Linton City Fire Department, acting on their own initiative or at the
request of the Mayor, City Council, or Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 91.08 FIREWORKS AND PYROTECHNICS.
   (A)   The owner, occupant, or agent of an organization, business, or group
that uses any type of fireworks or pyrotechnic special effects materials used
in motion pictures, television, and theatrical and group entertainment
productions, either indoors or outdoors, shall obtain an information permit
issued by the Linton Fire Department seven calendar days prior to the use of
the pyrotechnical devices. This permit shall be in addition to any other
permits required by federal or state agencies. The permit must be made
available upon request of a Fire Department official.
   (B)   The storage, use and handling of fireworks and pyrotechnics special
effects shall be in accordance with I.F.C. (675 I.A.C. 22), Article 78, and
I.C. 22-11-14, and current edition of N.F.P.A. standards for fireworks.
   (C)   The Linton Fire Department Pyrotechnics Permit must be signed by the
Fire Chief or his or her designee and contain the following information to be
valid:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of the certified individual or
pyrotechnic operator doing the production or display;
      (2)   Name and qualifications of the pyrotechnic operator doing the
production or display;
      (3)   Contact name, address and phone for whom the production or display
is being performed;
      (4)   A detailed location where the display shall take place;
      (5)   Date and time of the display;
      (6)   Estimated number of pyrotechnical devices to be used and length of
show; and
      (7)   A copy of a certificate of insurance conditioned for damages and/or
injury to persons or property in the amount of not less than $100,000 shall be
attached to the permit.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 91.09 COLLECTION AND FINES.
   (A)   Agent. In the event a violation of this section, the Chief of the
Linton Fire Department or his or her designee or agent, or a designee or agent
of the Common Council of the City of Linton, shall issue a written notice to
the violating landowner with the appropriate fines.
   (B)   Notice. The violation notice shall include the name of the landowner,
and the location of the violation.
   (C)   Service. Personal service, service by U.S. Certified Mail, or service
by publication in the event personal service or certified mail service is
declined, or any other manner service is recognized in the Indiana Rules of
Trial Procedure shall constitute proper service upon the landowner for purposes
of this section.
   (D)   Appeal. Any violation notice issued pursuant to this section may be
appealed to the Board of Public Works and Safety. The appeal must be in writing
and set forth with specificity the reason for the appeal.
   (E)   City to abate. If the landowner fails to timely cure or abate each
violation set forth in the violation notice, the landowner shall be deemed to
have granted permission to the city to enter the landowner’s property for the
limited purpose of removing the cause of the violation from the property,
thereby abating the nuisance. If the city must cure or abate the nuisance
because the landowner failed or refused to cure or abate, the fine of $500 is
automatically levied against the landowner. Multiple violations resulting in
fines will be levied accordingly.
   (F)   Certified statement. In the event the city dispatches employees or
agents to abate the nuisance, the appropriate designee shall prepare a
certified statement as to the actual administrative or other costs incurred by
the city as a result of abating the nuisance. A copy of the statement and
invoice shall be served upon the landowner, which details the total amount owed
to the city for the abatement.
   (G)   Payment period. The payment period for both the invoice, the fine(s)
and the costs of abatement by the city is 30 days within which to pay the total
amount stated. Payment arrangements may be made but shall not exceed 90 days.
   (H)   Appeals costs. Any invoice issued pursuant to this section may be
appealed to the Board of Public Works and Safety if written notice of appeal is
served on the Board within seven days from the date on which the invoice is
served to the landowner. The timely appeal of an invoice shall toll the payment
period pending the issuance of a decisions by the Board.
    (I)   Failure to pay. If the landowner fails to timely pay an invoice
issued pursuant to this section, the Clerk-Treasurer or any designee, shall
certify to the County Auditor, the amount of the fine, the invoice, plus any
additional administrative costs incurred in the certification of the same. The
Auditor shall place the total amount so certified on the tax duplicate as a
lien for the property at issue, and the total amount, including any accrued
interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be
disbursed to the General Fund of the city.
   (J)   Time of appeals. The Board shall hear any timely requested appeals of
a violation notice or invoice within 30 calendar days following receipt of
same, and shall thereafter promptly issue a written decision granting or
denying, in whole or in part, the appeal. The person appealing must be present
at the hearing or the appeal will be denied. The date on which the Board’s
decision is served on the landowner shall thereafter become the first calendar
day of the abatement period or payment period, as applicable.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 91.10 ACT RESPONSIBLY.
   At all times it is the responsibility of persons who ignite fire to check
with the Linton Fire Department before acting to determine whether the fire is
legal under the laws of the State of Indiana, Greene County, and the City of
Linton.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person violating open burning provisions of this chapter may
be served by an authorized enforcement person with a notice of violation. The
person upon whom a notice of violation is served may admit liability to the
violation as provided in the above sections and pay a civil penalty of $100 to
$500 directly to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the authorized enforcement person, the
violation is so substantial as to warrant a more severe penalty, the authorized
enforcement person may cause an action for violation of this chapter to be
filed in the Greene Superior Court.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person found in violation
of the open burning provisions of this chapter shall be fined an amount not to
exceed $500 for each violation. Each day in violation shall be considered a
separate violation. The city may also seek an injunction to prevent further
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-14-2005)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
92.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Exemptions
   
92.10   Administrative enforcement
   
92.11   Separability of provisions
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter:
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4, et seq. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04 through
92.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in this section. Also, pursuant to 24 CFR
Part 5, the definition of FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of
the actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status
of its members.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities.
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment.
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code (I.C. 22-9.5-2-10(b)); nor does the term HANDICAP
include an individual solely because that individual is a transvestite (I.C.
22-9.5-2-10(c)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant. (I.C.
22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
92.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) of this section and
I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) of this section, a person shall be
deemed to be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and 92.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(3)(c)3.
      (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
92.03 through
92.06.
(Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) of
this section; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) of this
section, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 92.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. Title 22-9.5-3 et seq.
shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities
or organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 92.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) of this section shall be vested in the chief elected official
of the city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the city, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. Title 22-9.5-6 and the
chief elected official of the city, shall refer all said complaints to the
Commission as provided for under division (a) of this section to said
Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as
provided for under I.C. Title 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the city, or the chief elected
official's designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 92.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of the chapter
and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly situated
or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2012-21, passed 12-10-2012)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; EXCAVATIONS IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Public meetings; permit required
   
93.03   Compliance with permit terms
   
93.04   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks prohibited; exception
   
93.05   Damaging streets prohibited
   
93.06   Depositing ice and snow prohibited
Excavations and Repairs in Streets
   
93.20   Permit required
   
93.21   Permit application
   
93.22   Bond required
   
93.23   Permit; cash deposit
   
93.24   Permit; term
   
93.25   Completion of work
   
93.26   Excavation requirements
   
93.27   Inspection
Sidewalks, Driveways and Parkways
   
93.40   Definitions
   
93.41   Repair and maintenance of sidewalks and driveways
   
93.42   Parkway maintenance
   
93.43   Effective date
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter regulates and controls the use, maintenance and repair of
sidewalks within the city; it regulates and controls the making of excavations
and openings in any street, alley, sidewalk, utility easement, or other public
space within the corporate limits of the city; it requires the obtaining of
permits for making such excavations and openings; it requires surety bonds or
cash deposits; and it prescribes penalties for violations.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.02 PUBLIC MEETINGS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person or group of persons desiring to hold any public meeting using the
public sidewalks and streets of the city shall first obtain from the Mayor a
permit to do so. The power to issue and revoke the permit shall be vested and
remain solely in the Mayor of the city.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.03 COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT TERMS.
   No procession or parade containing 40 or more persons or ten or more
vehicles, excepting the forces of the United States Army or Navy, the military
forces of the state and the forces of the Police and Fire Departments, shall
occupy, march or proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit
issued by the Chief of Police and such other applicable regulations as set
forth in this code or other city ordinances.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.04 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to encumber or obstruct any of the
streets or sidewalks of the city with any buildings, fences or other structures
or fixtures, vehicles, animals, machinery, equipment, materials, debris,
merchandise for sale or any substance or material for display or advertisement
whatsoever, so as to interfere with the free and unrestricted use of such
streets and sidewalks.
   (B)   No person shall, by means of any trees, shrubbery, buildings,
structures or other thing whatsoever, obstruct the view on any dedicated public
right-of-way.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person in the
use of a part of the streets or sidewalks under a building permit issued by the
city.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.05 DAMAGING STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive, use or operate any vehicle upon any paved or hard-
surfaced street in the city in such a manner as to cut, break or injure the
surface of the street.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DEPOSITING ICE AND SNOW PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except employees or contractors of the
city duly authorized by the City Executive or Director of Public Works, to
plow, blow, shovel, or otherwise deposit ice or snow from private property upon
any sidewalk or public thoroughfare (including any street, road, alley or
highway) in the city.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
EXCAVATIONS AND REPAIRS IN STREETS
§ 93.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unlawful to excavate without permit. It is unlawful for any person to
cut into, tunnel under any street or alley or through or across any pavement,
berm, parkway or sidewalk in the city without first obtaining a permit from the
city's Superintendent of Municipal Utilities (the "Superintendent").
   (B)   Unlawful to block drainage ditch. It shall be unlawful for any person
to fill, block, or otherwise obstruct or impede the natural flow of water
within storm sewers or drainage ditches.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application. Application for excavation permits shall be made to the
Superintendent and shall describe the location of the intended excavation, the
size thereof, the purpose therefor, the person, firm, or corporation for which
the work is being done, and the person, firm or corporation by whom the work is
being completed. The application shall contain an agreement that the applicant
will comply with all ordinances, laws, and regulations relating to the work to
be done.
   (B)   Fee for permit. The fee for each permit issued under this section
shall be $25. The Superintendent shall turn in all fees collected to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the times required by the Clerk- Treasurer and the fees shall be
deposited in the general fund.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.22 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before any permit shall be issued to any person desiring to perform
any of the work contemplated in §
93.20, he or she shall file with the city's Clerk-Treasurer an appropriate bond
in the amount as the Superintendent shall determine, but in no case shall the
amount of the bond be less than $500. The bond shall provide that he or she
will faithfully perform and do the work in a manner satisfactory to the city's
Superintendent. The bond shall further indemnify the city against any damages
resulting to third persons as a result of any negligence or improper work done
by the person. In the event the work is to be performed by any plumber,
contractor or other person, he or she shall file a bond with the city's Clerk-
Treasurer in accordance with the provisions of this section prior to the
commencement of any work.
   (B)   The bond required by this section shall be kept in force by the
permittee for a period of at least one year after the completion of the work
and shall not be released by the city's Clerk-Treasurer until the permittee has
settled all claims, either on behalf of the city or by other persons, resulting
from the work.
   (C)   If an excavation project is of sufficient scope to warrant the filing
of a surety bond in excess of $500 or if the applicant makes frequent
excavations annually, the Superintendent may require the applicant to file a
surety bond in the amount of $10,000; and
   (D)   The Superintendent may, when in his or her judgment the action is in
the best interests of the city, waive a bonding requirement for a single
excavation of a minor nature when the work is to be done by a reputable and
reliable contractor.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.23 PERMIT; CASH DEPOSIT.
   (A)   If, in the opinion of the city's Superintendent, it is necessary for
the protection of the city, he or she may require an additional guarantee that
any person receiving a permit under this subchapter will properly replace and
repair any pavement that may be cut into or disturbed by work contemplated in §
93.20, a cash deposit of a sufficient amount to cover the costs of the repair
shall be paid to the city's Superintendent when the permit is issued.
   (B)   The deposit shall be forfeited to the city if the repair or
replacement has not been made to the satisfaction of the city's Superintendent
within the time limit specified in the permit and, in any case, within 60 days
from the date of the permit.
   (C)   In the alternative, a person receiving a permit under this subchapter
may file with the city's Clerk-Treasurer a bond, in such amount as the city's
Superintendent shall determine, to additionally guarantee that the person will
repair, replace and put the street, alley, bridge, curb or sidewalk in as good
a condition as it was before it was disturbed by the work covered hereunder.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.24 PERMIT; TERM.
   No permit required by this subchapter shall be granted for a period longer
than 60 days without the permission of the Mayor and the Common Council.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.25 COMPLETION OF WORK.
   All work done under this subchapter shall be completed within 60 days from
the date the permit is issued, unless extended by the city's Superintendent.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.26 EXCAVATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with terms of permit. It shall be unlawful to make any
excavations in any manner or means contrary to or at variance with the terms of
the permit therefor or the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Excavation safety. The permit holder is responsible for taking all
precautionary measures necessary to ensure the safety of workers engaged in the
excavation to include proper bracing to prevent the collapse of adjoining
ground; and in excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the
surface any portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (C)   Barricades.
      (1)   Required for all excavations. It shall be unlawful for any person
to excavate in or in any way to obstruct any sidewalk or public place unless he
or she shall properly barricade the same.
      (2)   Barricades to be lighted. It shall be the duty of the person so
occupying or obstructing any sidewalk or public place to cause one or more red
lights to be securely and conspicuously posted at the excavation or
obstruction. One of the lights shall be placed at each end of the space so
occupied, where the excavation or obstruction is 20 feet or less in length or
breadth; and if space so occupied shall exceed 50 feet, additional lights at
intervals of not more than 50 feet shall be placed and maintained from dusk
until daylight during every night the excavation or obstruction shall be
allowed to remain.
   (D)   Temporary walkways. If any sidewalk is blocked by excavations or other
work, a temporary sidewalk shall be constructed or provided which shall be safe
for travel and convenient for users.
   (E)   Underground lines.
      (1)   Care shall be exercised to avoid injury to other lines in making
excavations. The permit holder shall give notice to appropriate utility company
personnel and the Superintendent of the Sewage Department of the city when
utility lines or sewers are or may be endangered or affected by the excavation.
      (2)   If anyone other than the one making the excavation causes damage to
any utility, he or she shall be held responsible for immediately reporting the
damage to the affected utility and for all costs involved in repair of damage.
   (F)   Protection of trees, bushes, and shrubbery. Care shall be exercised
during all excavations to prevent any unnecessary damage or injury to any
trees, bushes, or shrubs.
   (G)   Restoration of surface. Any person, firm or corporation making any
excavation or tunnel in or under any public street, alley, sidewalk, utility
easement or other public place in the city shall restore the surface to its
original condition. The opening shall be backfilled with bank run gravel,
flume, agricultural lime or sand and shall be properly tamped down every ten
inches of fill. Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street, alley,
sidewalk or utility easement shall be repaired and the surface re-laid by the
applicant in compliance with the terms of the permit, and it shall be done
under the supervision of the Superintendent of Streets. The applicant shall be
liable and responsible for the proper maintenance and subsequent repairs of the
opening for one year from the date of the repair and resurfacing.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 INSPECTION.
   (A)   All work contemplated in §
93.20 shall be subject to the inspection of the city's Superintendent, and any
person performing any of the work shall notify the city's Superintendent of the
commencement of the work, the progress of the work and the completion of the
work. When the work is completed, to the satisfaction of the city's
Superintendent, he or she shall issue a certificate of final inspection.
   (B)   Inspection for compliance. The Superintendent or his or her
representative shall from time to time inspect, or cause to be inspected, all
the excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley,
sidewalk, utility easement or other public place in the city to see to the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and the conditions of the permit.
   (C)   Inspection before backfilling. The excavation permit holder shall be
responsible for giving notice to the Superintendent of Streets at least ten
hours before the work of backfilling any excavation or tunnel begins.
   (D)   Release of deposit. The Superintendent of the Municipal Utilities
shall not release the deposit made by the permit holder until the
Superintendent of Streets advises that all terms of the permit have been
complied with and the surface disturbed by the excavation has been
satisfactorily restored.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKWAYS
§ 93.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKWAY. That area of land lying between the edge of the street, whether
paved or unpaved, and the edge of the sidewalk adjacent to and paralleling the
street. Where no sidewalk exists, the term shall mean and refer to that area of
land lying between the edge of a street and a line parallel to and 15 feet away
from the edge of the street.
   PAVE, REPAVE and CAUSE TO BE PAVED. The act of covering or surfacing an area
with asphalt, concrete, gravel, rock or other materials used in road or street
building. The installation of bricks or decorative stone as landscaping and not
for the purpose of parking shall not be considered paving.
   PERSON. Any asphalt contractor, concrete contractor, general contractor,
landowner, individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, trustee,
beneficial owner or a land trust, nominee of a landowner or any other legal
entity.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person who has an ownership interest in real estate,
legal or equitable, partial or absolute, or as a landlord or tenant. Mortgagees
and other lien holders shall not be deemed landowners unless and until they
acquire ownership by deed or by operation of law.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.41 REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Responsibility of repair and maintenance of abutting sidewalks and
driveways. The responsibility for the repair and maintenance of sidewalks and
driveways within the city is hereby deemed to be that of abutting property
owners. Property owners shall be responsible for maintaining the abutting
sidewalks in a reasonably safe condition and shall repair and maintain the
abutting sidewalk at their own expense as and when needed, in the opinion of
the Street Department Superintendent (the "Street Superintendent") or his or
her designee.
   (B)   Notice of order to repair. Should a property owner fail to maintain
his or her abutting sidewalk and/or driveway in a reasonably safe condition,
then, in the interest of the health, safety and general welfare of the public,
the city, in its sole discretion, may issue a notice or an order to repair the
sidewalk and/or driveway to the responsible owner.
   (C)   Issuance and service of notice to repair.
      (1)   Notice of an order to repair or improve any sidewalk and/or
driveway within the city shall be issued by the Street Superintendent or his or
her designee. The notice shall be addressed to the common address of the
property in question and also to the address of the property owner, if
different, and shall be sent by certified mail.
      (2)   The property owner shall perform the requested repairs or
improvements to the sidewalk and/or driveway within 30 days from the date of
the notice as required by the notice, or any extended time therefrom allowed by
the Street Superintendent or his or her designee.
   (D)   Contract for repair. In the event any property owner fails to comply
with the order to repair any sidewalk or driveway within the city issued by the
Street Superintendent or his or her designee, the Board of Public Works and
Safety, in its sole discretion, may have the sidewalk or driveway constructed
or repaired. In causing the sidewalk or driveway to be constructed or repaired,
the Board of Public Works and Safety may let a general contract for the making
or repairing of all sidewalks and/or driveways subject to the issued order. The
letting of any contract under the provisions of this section shall be governed
by the laws of the state regulating contractual authority of the Board of
Public Works and Safety for such matters, as they may be amended from time to
time.
   (E)   Assessments. Assessments for the construction or repair of sidewalks
or driveways shall be levied and collected pursuant to the terms of I.C. 36-9-
36, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.42 PARKWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The property owner whose property abuts a street or alley shall
maintain and care for any parkway which adjoins or is a part of his or her
property. The maintenance and care shall include, but not be limited to, the
planting and regular mowing of grass, trimming of bushes and trees and the
maintenance of flower beds.
   (B)   Unless granted authority by the Board of Public Works and Safety, no
person may hereafter pave, repave or cause to be paved, all or any part of a
parkway, or public right-of-way, except as part of a permitted driveway or
driveway apron. The Board of Public Worlcs and Safety may determine the
materials and specifications for paving as it feels are appropriate.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.43 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall take effect immediately upon
passage.
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to
the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues. (Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10))
(Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH, SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Scope
   
94.01   Scope
Noxious and Injurious Establishments
   
94.02   Noxious and Injurious Establishments
Public Nuisances
   
94.15   Definitions
   
94.16   Public Nuisances
      
94.16.010   Administration and Procedure
      
94.16.020   Conditions Serving as Basis to Issue Notice
      
94.16.030   Penalty
   
94.17   Abandoned Vehicles
      
94.17.010   Removal and Disposition of Abandoned Vehicles, Generally
      
94.17.020   Non-Exclusive Remedy
      
94.17.030   Applicability
      
94.17.040   Authorization of Enforcement
      
94.17.050   Liability of Owner of Abandoned Vehicle
      
94.17.060   Tagging Abandoned Vehicle
      
94.17.070   Tagging Abandoned Vehicles in Fenced-in Areas
      
94.17.080   Release of Vehicle
      
94.17.090   Disposal of Vehicle
      
94.17.100   Abandoned Vehicle Fund
      
94.17.110   Non-Liability for Loss or Damage
SCOPE
§ 94.01 SCOPE.
   
Chapter 94 of the Linton Municipal Code (the "Code") shall govern the
regulation and prohibition of all public nuisances, including abandoned
vehicles, as defined herein, within the City, with the exception of public
nuisances that constitute unsafe buildings or unsafe premises, as defined by
Indiana Code, which unsafe building and/or unsafe premises shall be governed
exclusively by
Chapter 150 of the Code and any other applicable state or federal law or
regulation.
NOXIOUS AND INJURIOUS ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 94.02 NOXIOUS AND INJURIOUS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to erect or enlarge, or permit
the erection or enlargement upon property owned, leased, rented or used by
them, which property is within the municipal boundaries of the City of Linton,
any equipment, structure, or building that will be used for any business or
trade that may become noxious or injurious to public comfort or health,
including but not hmited to bulk gasoline plants, bulk liquid gas plants, bulk
liquid fertilizer gases or liquids that could explode, burn, or cause damage
from inhalation or injury to persons, animals, or property.
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 94.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  Abandon vehicle includes any of the following:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally, or a vehicle left
on public property continuously without being moved, for more than three days;
      (2)   A mechanically inoperable vehicle that is located on public
property in such a manner as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the
movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (3)   A vehicle that has remained on private property for more than 48
hours without authorization by the owner or other person having the legal right
to control the use of the property;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
this chapter if the vehicle, once impounded, is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or his agent within 20 days of the date of its removal;
      (6)   A vehicle that is three or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days; or
      (7) Any vehicle that constitutes an abandoned vehicle pursuant to Indiana
Code 9-22-1.
   ABATEMENT PERIOD.  The period of time the landowner has to correct or abate
the violation stated on the violation notice issued to the landowner pursuant
to this Chapter. The initial abatement period is ten days. At the discretion of
the Fire Chief or, in the event of a timely appeal, at the discretion of the
Board, this time may be extended by up to 45 days, depending upon the severity
of the violation, the nature of the work required to abate the nuisance and the
efforts, if any, of the landowner to attempt to abate the nuisance.
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAP YARD.  A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
   BOARD.  The Board of Public Works and Safety for the City of Linton.
   BUREAU.  The Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   DEBRIS.  The remains of something broken-down, unused for prolonged periods,
discarded, abandoned, dilapidated, or destroyed, including but not limited to:
refuse; accumulation of items on public or private property that could pose
serious health or safety risks to persons or property; yard refuse, rank
vegetation cut but not disposed of; animal remains; trash; junk cars, parts of
automobiles or other vehicles which are no longer mobile; pieces or sheets of
glass (whether fractured or whole); wood, particle board, bark, wood chips,
lumber or other building materials; metal items from any source (whether rusted
or not); fencing or other barriers with exposed nails, splinters, or sharp
edges; wire, cables, hoses, ropes, chains, or other items that pose a choking
or strangling threat to persons or animals; rubber products, gasoline, gasoline
cans (whether in approved or unapproved containers for storage), oil cans, oil
pans, oil, or any other petroleum product; cans of paint, solvents, varnishes,
stains, or other types of surface coating; industrial detergents and mineral
cleansers; grease, alone or in any container; chemical cleansers; refrigerants
(including Freon); acetylene, propane, oxygen, or other chemical used for
welding or manufacturing processes accumulated and stored in containers that
are unsafe or unsafely stored; any other items not herein mentioned which
accumulate and pose a threat to the health, safety and welfare of persons and
property.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC NUISANCE.  Any of the following shah constitute an
environmental public nuisance:
      (1)   A thing, act, occupation, condition, or use of property that shall
continue for a length of time as to:
         (a)   Annoy, injure or have the potential to injure, endanger or have
the potential to endanger the comfort, health, repose, safety, or welfare of
persons or property;
         (b)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
         (c)   Interfere with, obstruct, or render any street, alley, highway,
navigable body of water, or public right-of-way dangerous or a potential danger
to persons or property;
         (d)   Become injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the senses,
or an obstruction to the full use of property, so as essentially to interfere
with the enjoyment of life or property.
      (2)   Any growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation on private or
public property which is neglected, disregarded or not cut, mown, or otherwise
removed which has attained a height of six inches or more;
      (3)   Any accumulation of dead weeds, grasses, or brush on private or
public property;
      (4)   Any poison ivy, ragweed, rank vegetation, poisonous plant, or
plants detrimental to health growing on any private or public property; and
      (5)   Property which has been allowed to become a health or safety
hazard, or which has accumulated litter, contains debris, abandoned vehicles,
waste products, graffiti, or any other items which pose a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of persons and property, unless specifically authorized
under existing law, ordinance, or regulation.
   GRAFFITI.  Markings of any kind, regardless of content, that may cause or do
cause persons passing by to obstruct, delay, or disturb the regular flow of
traffic (whether pedestrian or automobile), thereby creating a potential threat
to the health, safety, and welfare of person or property. The markings are
defined as any marking that defaces, deforms, mars, or causes the defacing,
deforming, or marring of any public or private property, regardless of
ownership or possessory interest therein, including but not limited to
buildings, trees, lampposts, poles, hydrants, bridges, piers, sidewalks,
streets, alleyways, or surface of any public or private property located upon
any public thoroughfare or right-of-way, or upon any public place within the
City. However, this section shall not prohibit the posting of notices as
required by law.
   JUNK.  Any articles in any form composed of or consisting of any of the
following enumerated second-hand, discarded, abandoned or cast-off metals or
materials, including but not limited to iron, brass, bronze, copper, tin, zinc,
lead or any other metals or compounds thereof, broken glass, rags, clothing,
rubber, plastics, synthetic substances, fabrics, bottles, papers, feathers,
waste material, any RLF compound or byproduct of the foregoing items. Junk
shall also include any wrecked, abandoned, dismantled, or immovable automobiles
or parts thereof.
   JUNK CAR.  Any motor vehicle which does not bear a currently valid license
plate, and is not kept in a garage or other building, regardless of age or
condition. A garage or other building does not include a tarp, plastic sheeting
or any other material or impermanent means that are commonly used to cover a
motor vehicle.
   LANDOWNER.  Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple of a parcel of real estate
including the life tenant or tenants if any;
      (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the most current records
in the county or townships assessors' office of the county or township in which
the real estate is located; or
      (3)   The purchaser or purchasers of real estate under any contract for
the conditional sale thereof.
   LITTERING.  Disposing of, tossing, dumping, ejecting or causing to be
ejected from hands, containers, automobiles, homes, or any other place, refuse
of any kind, onto the ground or other structure other than a refuse container;
   OFFICER.  Any regular member of the Linton Police Department.
   PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.  Public health nuisances include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated, or unwholesome food or drink
offered for sale to the public;
      (2)   Carcasses of animals, birds, or fowl not carried off or otherwise
disposed of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
      (3)   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash,
rubbish, rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, junk vehicles, scrap metal,
or any material in which mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats or other
vermin may breed, or which may be a fire hazard;
      (4)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies, or insects may
multiply;
      (5)   Garbage cans which are not fly-tight, or not kept clean;
      (6)   Pollution of any public well, cistern, stream, river, lake, canal,
or body of water by sewage, waste, creamery, industrial wastes, or other
substances;
      (7)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases,
flying ash, or industrial dust within the city hmits in quantities which may
cause injury or does cause injury, or which endangers the health of person of
ordinary sensibilities or threatens to cause or causes substantial damage to
property;
      (8)   Any use of property, substances or things that emit or cause foul,
offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious, or disagreeable odors, effluvia, or
stenches repulsive to the physical senses or ordinary persons, or which annoy,
discomfort, injure, or inconvenience the health of any appreciable number of
persons within the City;
      (9)   All abandoned wells not securely covered or secured from public
use;
      (10)   Any accumulation of junk rubbish, scrap metal, automotive parts,
building materials, machinery, dead trees, or parts of dead trees, upon any
premises in a residential or non-residential area;
      (11)   Any abandoned refrigerators, iceboxes, or similar containers from
which the doors and other covers have not been removed, or which are not
equipped with a device for opening from the inside by pushing only with the
strength of a child, or may or may not contain rust, or that has refrigerant in
any part thereof, or which still has electrical cables attached regardless of
age or:
      (12)   Any sign of any size, shape, content, or purpose, which infringes
upon the City's right-of-way easement from the center of the road to location
of the sign, or which poses a serious threat to the health, safety, or welfare
of the public.
   VISIBLE FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.  A vehicle which can be seen from public
property, including vehicles that have been covered by an impermanent covering
that allows the form or the outhne of the vehicle to remain visible from pubhc
property.
   WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION.  Any growth of weeds, grass or other rank
vegetation on private or pubhc property that is neglected, disregarded or not
cut, mown, or otherwise removed that has attained a height of six inches or
more.
§ 94.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   It is unlawful for a person to erect or cause to be erected, contrive or
cause to be engineered, cause or contribute to the cause, continue or permit to
continue, maintain or fail to remedy, or permit to exist any pubhc health
nuisance, environmental pubhc nuisance, abandoned vehicles, junk, junk cars,
graffiti, debris, weeds, and other rank vegetation, or litter within the City,
as defined by the laws of the State of Indiana and this Chapter.
94.16.010 Administration and Procedure.
      (1)   Administration. The executive department responsible for
administration of this Chapter shall be the Fire Department of the City of
Linton. The Fire Chief may engage an agent or designee to inspect and report on
the condition of the property and the action required to abate the unsafe
conditions, to issue violation notices consistent with this Chapter, and to
otherwise assist with the administration and enforcement of this Chapter.
      (2)   Notice. The violation notice shall be sent by certified mail to the
landowner at the last address of the landowner as indicated in the records of
the county auditor on the date of the notice. The notice also shall identify
the location of the public nuisance, identify the public nuisance, and order
the landowner to abate the public nuisance within ten days from the date upon
which the violation notice was served on the landowner.
      (3)   Appeal. Any violation notice issued pursuant to this section may be
appealed to the Board of Public Works and Safety. The appeal must be in writing
and set forth with specificity the reason for the appeal. The appeal of the
violation notice shall toll the abatement period pending the issuance of a
decision by the Board. The written appeal shall be submitted to the Board at
the Linton City Hall within seven days of the landowners being served with
notice.
      (4)   City's Option to Abate. If the landowner fails to timely abate each
violation set forth in the violation notice, the City shall have the option of
exercising a right of entry onto the landowner's real property for the limited
purpose of abating the public nuisance or causing, through its employees or
through contractors or agents, the abatement of the public nuisance. If the
City exercises its Option to Abate the public nuisance due to the landowner's
failure to abate the public nuisance, the landowner shall be fined according to
Section 94.16.030, which fine shall be in addition to any actual costs and
administrative costs billed to the landowner.
      (5)   Continuous Abatement Notice. If an initial violation of this
Chapter was due to rank weeds and vegetation exceeding six inches and was
provided by certified mail or equivalent service permitted under Indiana Code
1-1-7-1, a continuous abatement notice may be posted at the real property at
the time of abatement instead of by certified mail. A continuous abatement
notice serves as notice to the real property owner that each subsequent
violation during the same year for which the initial notice of the violation
was provided may be abated by the City or its agents and the costs of
abatement, which includes actual costs for materials, costs for labor (whether
actually incurred or based upon employee or City personnel providing labor),
and administrative costs, shall be billed to the landowner and collected in
accordance with Indiana Code and Section 94.16.010(8).
      (6)   Invoice. If the City dispatches employees, agents, or contractors
to abate the pubhc nuisance, the appropriate designee shall prepare an invoice
as to the actual costs of abatement and administrative costs incurred by the
City as a result of serving notice of a violation of this Chapter and abating
the pubhc nuisance. A copy of the invoice shall be served upon the landowner,
which details the total amount owed to the City for the abatement. Payment of
all fines and costs of abatement are due within 30 days of the date of invoice,
and are considered dehnquent if not paid in full on or before the 30th day
after the date of the invoice.
      (7)   Appeal Costs. Any invoice issued pursuant to this Chapter may be
appealed to the Board of Pubhc Works and Safety by filing a written appeal with
the Board at the Linton City Hall within seven days of the date of notice.
      (8)   Failure to Pay. If the landowner fails to pay an invoice issued
pursuant to this Chapter and the invoice becomes dehnquent, the Clerk-Treasurer
of the City or any designee of the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify to the County
Auditor the amount of the fine, the invoice, and any additional administrative
costs incurred. The Auditor shaU place the total amount so certified on the tax
duphcate as a lien against the property at issue, and the total amount shall be
collected as dehnquent taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the
General Fund of the City.
      (9)   Appeal Hearings. The Board shall hear any timely requested appeal
of a violation notice or invoice within 30 calendar days following receipt of
the appeal, and shall thereafter promptly issue a written decision granting or
denying, in whole or in part, the relief sought through the appeal. The
landowner appealing must be present at the hearing or the appeal will be
denied, unless the landowner can demonstrate that his or her absence was for
good cause and the person is represented at the hearing by legal counsel or by
another person having the authority to act on behalf of the landowner.
94.16.020 Conditions Serving as Basis to Issue Notice.
      Any landowner whose property harbors an environmental nuisance, a pubhc
nuisance, abandoned vehicles, junk, junk car(s), graffiti, debris, or rank
weeds and vegetation which exceed six inches, which does not fall within the
scope of Chapter 150 of the Code, shall be issued a violation notice in
accordance with this Chapter.
94.16.030 Penalty.
      Any person who violates this Section
94.16 and fails to abate the nuisance after proper notice having been issued
and the expiration of the time specified in the notice, which period shall not
be less than ten days, shall be found to be harboring a nuisance, and will be
fined $500.
      If, after notice of the violation is served upon the landowner, and the
landowner fails to abate the nuisance within the time required by the notice,
or within a time extended as a result of an appeal or of an extension being
granted by the Board, the City will have a limited right of entry onto the
landowner's property to abate the nuisance. If the City exercises its Option to
Abate, the City will levy the fine in accordance with this Section, which fine
shall be in addition to any costs billed to the landowner as costs of
abatement.
§ 94.17 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
94.17.010 Removal and Disposition of Abandoned Vehicles, Generally.
      Abandoned vehicles are detrimental to the health and safety of the
general public and are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and a health
safety hazard. For these reasons, the City shall have, in addition to the
remedies prescribed in Section
94.16, the authority to identify, remove and dispose of abandoned vehicles, as
defined by this Chapter, in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
94.17.020 Non-Exclusive Remedy.
      This Section is a nonexclusive remedy for a specific type of nuisance,
abandoned vehicles, and shall not affect the authority of the City to remedy
public nuisances under Section
94.16, including abandoned vehicles.
94.17.030 Applicability.
      This Section does not apply to the following:
      1.   a vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
      2.   a vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
      3.   a vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
      4.   a vehicle located upon property licenses or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
      5.   a vehicle registered and hcensed under IC 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle; or
      6.   a golf cart.
94.17.040 Authorization of Enforcement.
      The City of Linton Police Department and any Officer thereof is hereby
designated to carry out the provisions of this ordinance or the provisions of
IC 9-22-1-1 through 9-22-1-32.
94.17.050 Liability of Owner of Abandoned Vehicles.
      The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and
liable for all the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of
the vehicle. All costs incurred shall constitute a Hen against the vehicle, and
the vehicle shall not be released until all such costs are paid.
94.17.060 Tagging Abandoned Vehicle.
      An Officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle beheved to be abandoned
shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following
information:
         1.   The date, time, officer's name, pubhc agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information.
         2.   The vehicle is considered abandoned.
         3.   The vehicle will be removed after 72 hours.
         4.   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle.
         5.   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle within 72 hours.
94.17.070 Tagging Abandoned Vehicles in Fenced-in Areas.
      If an abandoned vehicle is visible within a fenced-in area and in
violation of this Chapter, an Officer who finds the vehicle may place a notice
tag in a visible location at the property where the vehicle is located. Any
notice must include the information in Section 94.17.060, above.
94.17.080 Release of Vehicle.
      If the properly identified person who owns or hold a lien on the vehicle
appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle and pays all
costs incurred against the vehicle at that time, the vehicle shall be released.
94.17.090 Disposal of Vehicle.
      If a vehicle is not removed within the 72-hour period, the Officer shall
prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle, including
information on make, model, engine number, identification number, license plate
number, condition, missing parts, and any other facts that might substantiate
the estimated market value of the vehicle. Photographs shall be taken to
describe the condition of the vehicle. The City may dispose of a vehicle to an
automobile scrap yard if the established market value of said vehicle is not
more than $500. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs relating
to the vehicle shall be forwarded to the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles. The
original records and photographs shall be retained for a period of two years in
the City of Linton Police Department.
94.17.100 Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
      An Abandoned Vehicle Fund is hereby established as required under IC 9-
22-1-30.
         1.   The fund shall be used to pay for the costs for removal and
storage of an abandoned vehicle not claimed by the person who owns or holds a
hen on a vehicle.
         2.   The costs incurred by the City in administering this fund shall
be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
         3.   The City Council shall annually appropriate sufficient money to
the fund. Money remaining in the fund at the end of the year remains in the
fund and does not revert to the General Fund.
94.17.110 Non-Liability for Loss or Damage.
      The City shall not be liable for the loss or damage to a vehicle
occurring during the removal, storage, or disposition of a vehicle under this
ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-10-2005; Am. Ord. 2012-05, passed 5-14-2012; Ord. 2014-
5, passed 4-14-2014)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Rules, application, and fee for Community Building
   
95.02   Establish Department of Public Parks
   
95.03   Create Golf Course as Municipal Utility
   
95.04   Prohibition of animals in pubhc parks during festivals and special
events
Phil Harris Golf Course
   
95.20   Rates for storage and use of private golf carts
   
95.21   Golf course fees
Sunset Park and Sunset Lake
   
95.35   New rates for Sunset Park
   
95.36   Camping rules
   
95.37   Regulation of water sports
Humphrey's Park
   
95.70   Hours for Humphrey's Park
   
95.71   Humphrey's Park Farmer's Market - weekly (Mon.-Fri.)
   
95.72   Humphrey's Park Farmer's Market - weekend (Sat.)
AM Risher Swimming Pool
   
95.80   AM Risher Swimming Pool rates and regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 RULES, APPLICATION, AND FEE FOR COMMUNITY BUILDING.
   (A)   The rent on the Linton Community Building will be $125 for the day it
is being totally utilized, and $75 additional if an individual needs to use the
building the day before only partially to decorate or to set a band up and will
not be using the kitchen facilities on that day. If all facilities are being
used a fee of $125 will still be assessed as usage for the whole day.
   (B)   This chapter shall take effect and be in full force on and after its
passage and approval by the Mayor and the Common Council for the City of
Linton, Indiana.
   (C)   Anyone renting the facility and using it within a seven-day period of
reservation, must pay the fee by cash instead of a check.
   (D)   Reservations will be made available to the building one year in
advance due to the planning that is required for large receptions or
activities, but still payable at the time the reservation is made and non-
refundable.
   (E)   (1)   An additional fee will be assessed on the facilities at the time
of picking up the key for rental.
      (2)   The following will be assessed:
         (a)   Small shelters: $5 deposit for key and $15 for clean-up.
         (b)   Community building: $5 deposit for key and $45 for clean-up.
   (F)   All deposits will be returned to renter upon return of key and after
our people check the facility to verify the renter has cleaned up after his or
her reservation. This means that the renter must have the building cleaned up
by the end of his or her reservation so the next person will start with a clean
place. If the city finds the building unclean upon checking, the cleaning
deposit will be non-refundable.
   (G)   All key and cleaning deposits will be paid by cash as these monies
will not be deposited by the City of Linton, allowing for immediate refund.
   (H)   This amendment will affect all applications for year starting January
1,1996. All people having reservations made and paid for previous to this date
will be notified of the change after adoption of this chapter.
   (I)   Standard rental rates for buildings are as follows:
      (1)   (a)   Scout Cabin: $175 per day.
         (b)   East Shelter: $175 per day.
         (c)   West Shelter: $175 per day.
         (d)   Roy Clark Community Building: $425 per day.
      (2)   Electronic payment processing fees, which are not included in the
above-listed rates, shall be paid by the customer.
      (3)   Other rules and regulations.
         (a)   A day's reservation is from 8:00 a.m. to midnight.
         (b)   No sales of alcoholic beverages are allowed in any buildings.
         (c)   Absolutely no tape, nails or staples are permitted on walls,
ceilings or counters in any of the buildings.
         (d)   Cleaning of kitchen areas (counters, range, sink, etc.) is
required in all buildings.
         (e)   Tables are to be cleaned (wiped down), folded and both tables
and chairs are to be stored as found.
         (f)   Trash is to be bagged, removed to the dumpster and new bags
placed in the trash cans.
         (g)   Floors are to be swept and mopped and carpet (where applicable)
is to be vacuumed.
         (h)   Upon departure, all lights should be turned off.
         (i)   Upon departure, thermostats should be set to 58 degrees in the
winter months and 72 degrees in the summer months.
         (j)   When departing, make certain that all doors are locked.
      (4)   Rental fees are refundable provided a 48 hour notice of
cancellation is given at City Hall prior to the date of rental. Cancellations
less than 48 hours prior to the date of rental are subject to a forfeiture of
one-half of the applicable rental fee.
      (5)   The city, with regard to all building rental agreements, reserves
the right to determine compliance with all rules and regulations pertaining to
all building rental agreements. Further, in the event the lessee is determined
to be non-compliant, the city reserves the right to seek reimbursement from the
lessee of any and all costs relating to necessary repairs and or cleaning.
Additionally, in the event of non-compliance, the city reserves the right,
subsequently, to prohibit the lessee from further rental arrangements.
(Ord.95-1, passed 1-9-1995; Am. Ord. 95-13, passed 9-11-1995; Am. Ord. 95-19,
passed 12-11-1995; Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-11-2023)
§ 95.02 ESTABLISH DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC PARKS.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Department of Public Parks for the
City of Linton under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-4.
   (B)   This chapter be in full force and effect from the date of its passage
and approval by the Mayor and Common Council of the City of Linton, Indiana.
(Ord. 80-7, passed 3-13-1980)
§ 95.03 CREATE GOLF COURSE AS MUNICIPAL UTILITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Department of Municipal Golf Course
Services as a separate utility service to the City of Linton under the
direction and supervision of the Linton Board of Public Works, and there is
hereby created the Linton Municipal Golf Course Fund as a non-reverting utility
fund.
   (B)   Any and all funds now deposited in the Linton Municipal Golf Course
Fund of the General Fund of the civil city are hereby transferred to the
Department of Municipal Golf Course Services Fund, which fund is a separate
utility fund, distinct from the civil city.
   (C)   This section shall take effect and be in force on and after its
passage and approval by the Mayor and Common Council of the City of Linton,
Indiana.
(Ord. 81-16, passed 9-8-1981)
§ 95.04 PROHIBITION OF ANIMALS IN PUBLIC PARKS DURING FESTIVALS AND SPECIAL
EVENTS.
   (A)   Acts constituting a public nuisance.
      (1)   Any animal is deemed to be a public nuisance that is brought to a
public park, facility, or event held in the public on public property owned or
operated by the city during festivals, special events, and advertised events
where more than 20 people are in attendance in a public park or facility.
      (2)   The following activities are strictly forbidden in public areas
during festivals, advertised events or events where 20 or more people are in
attendance:
         (a)   Bringing or causing to be brought, transporting, or delivering
any domesticated or undomesticated animal including, but not limited to, dogs,
cats, snakes, reptiles, rodents, birds, fowl, spiders, insects, pets, or any
other living animal or creature to an owner or handler who is present in the
public park or facility while there is a festival, event, calendared event or
event where 20 or more people are present; or
         (b)   Allowing an animal to defecate upon public park or facility
property without properly cleaning up after the animal.
      (3)   The following must immediately occur if an owner or handler has an
animal in or around a public park or facility:
         (a)   Should a domesticated or undomesticated animal be present in the
public park or facility prior to the start of the festival, that when the
festival is scheduled to begin, that animal must immediately be removed from
the public park or facility.
         (b)   If the owner or handler of the animal does not remove the animal
from the public park or facility at the start of the festival or event, and
upon the first verbal notice by either park personnel, the Linton Police
Department, or other authorized city person, the animal is not removed from the
public park or facility, the animal and its handler may be asked to leave.
         (c)   Failure to leave after duly being notified of the violation of
the law may result in: being found to be in violation of this section, being
cited for maintaining a nuisance, fines being levied against the owner or
handler who is present with the animal, or confiscation of the animal.
         (d)   Failure to abide by this law, or failing to act in accordance
with this law does not in any way negate other applicable laws from being
enforced, and will be enforced in addition to all other applicable laws of this
city and the state of Indiana.
   (B)   Specific events where animals are strictly forbidden. No animals,
except those brought in for the specific purpose of display, such as caged
animals brought in by circus or entertainment, petting zoo animals maintained
by event planners, and animals on exhibition that have been invited for that
purpose, shall be in the public park or facility during the following
festivals, advertised events, and special events:
      (1)   The Linton Freedom Festival;
      (2)   The Linton Music Festival;
      (3)   The Linton Chili and Coney Cook-off;
      (4)   The Halloween Trick or Treat events; and
      (5)   The Linton Carnival.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Failure to remove an animal from the public park or facility at the
start of a festival or event will constitute a violation of this section.
      (2)   Violations of this section may result in fines, court intervention,
or confiscation of an animal.
      (3)   Any person who maintains a public nuisance, as defined herein,
shall be fined a follows: each violation shall be fined in a sum not less than
$50 nor more than $250.
      (4)   In the event an animal is confiscated or retained at the city
authorized placement because its owner has been in violation of this section or
any other applicable law, the person redeeming the animal by paying the
prescribed fines, lodging fees, kennel fees, administrative fees, and court
costs, shall also be subject to paying for medical bills incurred for testing,
shots, vaccinations and parasite remedies for the animal, and any other
necessary medical treatment while the animal is maintained fat the city
authorized placement before the animal is returned to the owner or handler.
      (5)   Upon a finding that a person has maintained a public nuisance, as
defined herein, a court of competent jurisdiction may order the immediate
impounding of any animal(s).
      (6)   Upon a finding that a person has maintained a public nuisance, as
defined herein, a court of competent jurisdiction may order that the person pay
reasonable attorney's fees and costs to the city in the minimum amount of $500,
for enforcement of this section.
      (7)   Should no owner or handler retrieve the animal from the city
authorized placement within 72 hours of the confiscation, or immediately upon
court order, the animal will be deemed to be abandoned.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 2-12-2007)
PHIL HARRIS GOLF COURSE
§ 95.20 RATES FOR STORAGE AND USE OF PRIVATE GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   The Phil Harris Golf Course Committee has amended the private golf
cart owners policy, effective April 12, 2004 and retroactive to March 1, 2004.
   (B)   This policy addresses the privilege of private golf cart ownership on
the Phil Harris Golf Course and the use of private golf carts.
   (C)   The policy reads as follows:
      (1)   There shall be no new private golf carts or private golf cart
privileges allowed on the Phil Harris Golf Course.
      (2)   The select owners of private golf carts, who have the privilege of
private golf cart use on the Phil Harris Golf Course, shall pay the following
fees for the year of 2004. Each private golf cart owner shall pay a rolling fee
of $100 per year, plus the appropriate surcharges each time a round of golf is
played. This includes each person in the private golf cart.
      (3)   Each private golf cart owner, who has the privilege of private golf
cart use on the Phil Harris Golf Course, shall abide by all rules of regulating
body of the Phil Harris Golf Course.
      (4)   Each private golf cart owner, who has the privilege of storing his
or her golf cart in the maintenance barn, shall pay rent to the Phil Harris
Golf Course of $150 for 2004, effective April as, 2004 and retroactive for the
2004 golf season.
      (5)   Each private golf cart owner, who has the privilege of private golf
cart use on the Phil Harris Golf Course, is required to provide proof of
insurance to the Phil Harris Golf Course and the City of Linton, listing the
Phil Harris Golf Course and the City of Linton as the insured and provide a
copy of the proof of insurance to the Golf Pro on or before May 15, 2004. All
private golf cart owners shall sign a waiver that will exclude the Phil Harris
Golf Course and the City of Linton, and golf course personnel from any
liability resulting from the use of private golf carts.
      (6)   All private golf cart owners must hold a season pass to the Phil
Harris Golf Course. If a season pass is not purchased, that owner shall give up
all rights to private golf cart privileges and will be required to remove his
or her private golf cart.
      (7)   All private golf cart owners shall have all fees paid by May 15 of
each year.
      (8)   If any of the above policies are not complied with by the private
golf cart owners all private golf cart privileges shall be forfeited by that
private golf cart owner and removal of that golf cart shall take place no later
than five days after being informed of any infractions by the golf pro.
      (9)   There shall be no extensions of fees beyond May 15, 2004.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from the date of its
passage and approval by the Mayor and the Common Council of the City of Linton,
Indiana.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 6-14-2004)
§ 95.21 GOLF COURSE FEES.
   (A)   The following fees and rates supercede all prior fees and rates for
the Phil Harris Golf Course.
      (1)   Standard rates:
 
Single                   $400
Senior                   $375 over 65 years of age
Couple                   $550
Student                  $150
City of Linton employees $200
City of Linton retirees  $200
Cart                     $550
 
 
Non-Members                    Green Fees     Cart           Members Cart Fees
Monday Unlimited              $10 per person $10 per person $8 per person
Tuesday-Thursday      18 holes $15 per person $18 per person $16 per person
                      9 holes  $10 per person $9 per person  $8 per person
Weekends and holidays 18 holes $18 per person $18 per person $16 per person
                      9 holes  $12 per person $ 9 per person $8 per person
 
 
Twilight (hours posted) $25 per person
School fees             $500 per school
 
      (2)   Any weekday or special rates may be set by the Golf Pro with the
approval of the Golf Committee.
   (B)   There will no longer be partial payments on season tickets. All
tickets must be paid in full upon first round played each year or green fees
will be charged. Also, there will be no half season tickets sold in the future.
   (C)   This section shall take effect and be in full force on and after its
passage and approval by the Mayor and the Common Council for the City of
Linton, Indiana. This section supersedes all ordinances pertaining to golf
course fees.
(Ord. 00-1, passed 11-13-2000; Am. Ord. 01-01, passed 2-12-2001; Am. Ord. 2006-
12, passed 11-13-2006; Am. Ord. 2008-01, passed 3-10-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-02,
passed 1-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-16, passed 12-4-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-2, passed
02-13- 2012; Am. Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-
13-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-4, passed 4-9-2024)
SUNSET PARK AND SUNSET LAKE
§ 95.35 NEW RATES FOR SUNSET PARK.
   (A)   Campground regulations.
      (1)   Camping season is established as April 1 to November 1 of each
year.
      (2)   On November 1 of each year ail electricity and water will be
disconnected from all campsites.
      (3)   All campers must be moveable in case campsites or roads would need
repaired, and campers need to be moved. Campers will be removed no later than
48 hours after notification of removal or movement is posted at the campsite.
In the case of an emergency, campers may be moved without notice.
      (4)   Everyone must provide a copy of proof of insurance on their campers
when their fees are paid.
      (5)   The Park Board or the city is not liable for damages that might
occur while camping or storing an individual's camper at Sunset Park.
   (B)   Winter storage. The winter storage fee for a camper will be $200
payable on November 1 of each year. Campers not wishing to pay the storage fee
must remove their camper before November 1 or be charged $200. If the camper is
removed before November 1, the camper may pay $200 to reserve their site for
the following year no earlier than November 1 of that year and no later than
November 15 of that year.
   (C)   Regular rates.
      (1)   Fees for campers:
 
Time Period Rate
Monthly     $300
Weekly      $100
Daily       $20
 
      (2)   Fees for tents:
 
Time Period Rate
Daily       $5
Monthly     $100
 
(D)   Transactions. All money transactions will go through City Hall and there
will be no refunds.
(Ord. 2004-08, passed 10-11-2004; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 4-12-2010; Am. Ord.
2011-1, passed 3-30-2011; Am. Ord. 2017-08, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 95.36 CAMPING RULES.
   (A)   Ownership of park. The City of Linton owns the facility known as
Sunset Park.
   (B)   Available to public. This facility has available to the public scuba
diving, fishing and camping sites and can accommodate 50 to 60 campers.
   (C)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   Use bottle gas for heat at your expense.
      (2)   No electric heaters (this will be checked).
      (3)   A person must let the water drain back, and unhook the water line
when he or she is gone.
      (4)   A person must use heat tape around his or her water lines.
      (5)   No outside full size stoves, refrigerators or other unsightly
items.
      (6)   Pets. No more than two dogs outside the camper. Both must be tied
up. Do not leave animals tied up outside if he or she is going away for an
extended period of time. The dogs should not disturb other campers.
      (7)   Put all trash in the barrels or take to his or her trash bin.
      (8)   Quiet hour: If he or she has children the person should be at his
or her campsite by 11:00 p.m. Those who have been sent back to their campsite
will be warned. If a person has to be warned twice, he or she may be asked to
leave.
      (9)   Speed limit: The speed limit is posted as an individual enters the
campground. It is a small campground, but kids cross the roads every few
seconds. Please watch for them.
      (10)   During the summer the gate is shut but not locked at 9:00 p.m. The
city asks that individuals and guests shut the gate if individuals come in
later than that time.
   (D)   Effective date. The above fees, rules and regulations will be in
effect upon adoption by the Common Council for the City of Linton.
(Ord. 96-2, passed 2-12-1996; Am. Ord. 2011-1, passed 3-30-2011)
§ 95.37 REGULATION OF WATER SPORTS.
   (A)   This chapter shall regulate water sports activities on Sunset Lake
owned by the City of Linton, Indiana, and shall apply only to that body of
water.
   (B)   It shall be illegal for any person to swim in Sunset Lake.
   (C)   It shall be illegal for any person to scuba dive in Sunset Lake
without first having obtained a permit to do so issued by the City of Linton.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Linton or his or her assignee shall
issue to any person over the age of 18 years who has paid the prescribed permit
fee, signed a general waiver of liability, and is currently a certified diver,
a permit to scuba dive on Sunset Lake.
   (E)   The fee for obtaining a permit to scuba dive on Sunset Lake shall be
$15 for a one-year permit, $5 for a one-week permit and $3 for a one-day permit
which shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Linton and the funds
collected therefrom shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City of
Linton.
   (F)   Permits for scuba diving shall be valid for the period indicated on
the face of the permit.
   (G)   Any person under 18 years of age may not scuba dive in Sunset Lake
unless they are accompanied by a parent or guardian who has a current permit
issued by the City of Linton to scuba dive and the parent or guardian has
signed a waiver of liability on behalf of the child with the City of Linton.
   (H)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
fined in the sum of $25.
(Ord. 82-4, passed 5-11-1982; Am. Ord. 83-2, passed 5-10-1983)
HUMPHREY'S PARK
§ 95.70 HOURS FOR HUMPHREY'S PARK.
   (A)   In furtherance of the promotion of the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of, and visitors to the city, Humphrey's Park will be closed from
the hours of 12:00 a.m. until 4:00 a.m.
   (B)   Except for Fourth of July activities; person(s) renting the shelter
houses or community building located in Humphrey's Park; person(s) present in
the park to carry out activities related to special events calendared by the
city; the city park personnel; state, county, or city personnel accessing the
park for maintenance or work; or any other special event of the city, no person
shall loiter, park, or make use of Humphrey's Park's recreational equipment or
facilities from the hours of 12:00 a.m. until 4:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2007-003, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 95.71 HUMPHREY'S PARK FARMERS' MARKET - WEEKLY (MON.-FRI.).
   (A)   Establishment. A farmers' market is hereby established to operate in
Humphrey's Park from April through October of each calendar year.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FARMERS' MARKET. A place in Humphrey's Park where vendors will be able to
sell produce in a space designated by the Park Board.
      FEE. The price required to be paid for the use of the Humphrey's Park
farmers' market to offset the costs of maintaining and establishing the market.
      FINES. Costs that are to be assessed to any vendor that leaves the
farmers' market or Humphrey's Park in an unsafe, unclean, or spoiled condition.
      SEASONAL PASS. A permit that can be purchased for the use of the
Humphrey's Park farmers' market for a period from April through October of that
calendar year in which it is purchased.
      SINGLE DAY PASS. A permit that can be purchased for a one time use of the
Humphrey's Park farmers' market from April through October of that calendar
year in which it is purchased.
      VENDOR. A person or entity who wishes to sell produce in Humphrey's Park
consistent with the rules promulgated by the Park Board and the Common Council.
   (C)   Authority. The Park Board is given the authority to establish rules,
administer, and supervise the farmers' market to promote the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens.
   (D)   Fees. The fees for weekly (Monday through Friday) produce vendors who
wish to sell at the farmers' market will be:
      (1)   $10 for a single day pass;
      (2)   $150 for a seasonal pass; and
      (3)   $5 for an application processing fee.
   (E)   Penalty.
      (1)   Vendors that cause conditions subjecting them to fines shall be
charged as follows:
         (a)   $25 for leaving trash, unsold produce, or waste products; and
         (b)   $50 for creating a condition that is unsafe and dangerous.
      (2)   Any vendor receiving a fine that is not paid for a period of five
days or more will be barred from selling in the Humphrey's Park farmers' market
for a period not less than one year.
(Ord. 2008-002, passed 4-14-2008; Amended Ord. 2013-6, passed 4-8- 2013)
§ 95.72 HUMPHREY'S PARK FARMERS' MARKET - WEEKEND (SAT.).
   (A)   Establishment. The City Council established the Linton Farmers' Market
(the "Market") to operate on Saturdays in Humphrey's Park. The Market will be
open every Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. starting May 31 and continuing
through September 27, except June 28 and August 30, and except as weather may
prevent. Location of the Market will be in the southeast parking lot at
Humphrey's City Park.
   (B)   Administration and Bylaws. The Market will be administered by the
Linton Park Board in accordance with the Linton Farmers' Market Bylaws and
Linton Farmers' Vendor Market Handbook containing Market Regulations and Vendor
Contract.
   (C)   The 2015 Linton Farmers’ Market Bylaws and the 2015 Linton Farmer’s
Market Vendor Handbook are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth
herein.
   (D)   Effective Date. Section
95.72 will be in full force and effect as amended and adopted by the City
Council of the City of Linton on February 24, 2015.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 4-8-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-9, passed 7-8-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-
2, passed 2-13-2014; Am. Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-23-2015)
AM RISHER SWIMMING POOL
§ 95.80 AM RISHER SWIMMING POOL RATES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Swimming Pool admission charges for 2025 (and thereafter, until
modified) are:
      (1)   Daily charge: $5.00 per daily admission;
      (2)   Family pass: $150.00 for family of four ($10.00 for each additional
family member);
      (3)   Student passes: $80.00;
      (4)   Mid-Season Student Passes Effective July 1st: $35.00;
      (5)   Punch card: $75.00 - 20 punches (No Expiration Date);
      (6)   Pool Party $175.00 for up to 100 swimming; and
      (7)   Free admission for children four and under.
   (B)   The times and dates of regular pool operation are:
      (1)   Pool parties will be from 7:00-9:00 p.m. and 9:00-11:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Pool will be open from noon to 6:00 p.m.;
      (3)    Water Aerobics/Zumba classes will be from 6:00-7:00 p.m. Monday,
Tuesday, and Thursday with the step side marked off for this activity; and
      (4)   Projected pool opening date will be the Sunday of Memorial Day
Weekend, water temperature and weather permitting.
   (C)   Employee staffing list.
      (1)   Maximum of one manager.
      (2)   Maximum of two assistant managers.
      (3)   Minimum of six bathhouse/concession workers.
      (4)   Minimum of six lifeguards.
   (D)   This Section will be in full force and effect as of the Effective
Date.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 5-9-2011; Am Ord. 2012-07, passed 05-14-2012, Am. Ord.
2013-3, passed 3-11-2013; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 5-8-2023; Am. Ord. 2025-02,
passed 5-12-2025)
CHAPTER 96: CEMETERIES
Section
   
96.01   Fairview Cemetery; new rates
   
Addendum A: Rules and Regulations
§ 96.01 FAIRVIEW CEMETERY; NEW RATES.
   (A)   The Linton Cemetery Board has the power and duties to establish the
price for and to sell the cemetery plots to individuals upon the terms and
conditions set out by the Board.
   (B)   The following rates and rules will supersede all current rates and
rules for Fairview Cemetery.
      (1)   Rates:
Grave space in the section commonly
known as "Fence Section," which is more
specifically described as the northeast
corner of Section 5 of the cemetery map  $200
plotted thereof
(Note: The section named here has very
few spaces suitable for burial due to
low-lying areas; it does not dry out.)
Grave space in all other sections of the
cemetery                                 $600
(Note: Fairview Cemetery does not have a
"hold" policy for burial spaces.)
Opening and closing (regular adult)      $750
graves
   Holidays                           $950
Opening and closing over-sized (adult)   $800
graves
   Holidays                           $1,000
Grave location fee (assessment/
administrative fees; includes leveling   $200
and initial maintenance of gravesite)
Stone location fee (assessment/          $100
administrative fees)
Large cremations (hole size over 12" x   $300
12")
   Holidays                           $500
Small cremations (hole size under 12" x  $250
12")
   Holidays                           $450
Infant Graves                            $300
   Holidays                           $500
Saturday fee: extra, in addition to,     $200 additional paid to Fairview
location fee                             Cemetery
Holiday fee: extra, in addition to,      $200 additional paid to Fairview
location fee                             Cemetery
(Holidays include all federal holidays)
Memorial gathering/graveside service fee $100
(Placing ashes in columbarium)
Administrative fee (transfer deed/spaces $25
to another person(s))
 
      (2)   No burials on Sundays or (select) federal holidays, which include:
New Year's, Easter, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Thanksgiving, and
Christmas.
      (3)   No burials after 4:00 p.m. All parties will have to be in and out
by 4:00 p.m. or a charge of $100 will be assessed.
      (4)   There is a one-hour time limit for funerals from the time the
hearse arrives. City personnel will return to work after a one-hour interval.
      (5)   New rates are effective immediately upon passage of this section.
      (6)   All funeral homes, monument companies, and commercial interests
must contact Fairview Cemetery with a minimum of 24 hours' advance notice prior
to entering the cemetery for the conduct of business.
      (7)   The cemetery is not responsible for poorly constructed foundations
or inadequate workmanship of monument companies. (If a foundation does not
follow ordinance specifications, the owner of the grave space(s) and the
monument company are responsible for any and all costs to repair or replace the
foundation.)
      (8)   The cemetery is not responsible for maintenance of gravestones/
monuments or foundation replacement involving an "act of God" or nature, such
as excessive rain, flooding, etc. (The cemetery cannot absorb the total cost of
replacement. Accidents, such as damage done with vehicles or equipment, are not
included in this situation.)
      (9)   The cemetery is not responsible for theft or vandalism of personal
items placed at gravesites. (See "Decorations" section of Addendum A.)
      (10)   The attached Addendum “A,” “RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE FAIRVIEW
CEMETERY BOARD GOVERNING THE OPERATIONS OF FAIRVIEW CEMETERY, LINTON, INDIANA
47441” are adopted herewith as a part of Ordinance 2024-13 and constitute those
rules and regulations under which cemetery operations are to be conducted.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 4-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-10-2006; Am. Ord.
2009-03, passed 1-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 2014-10,
passed 10-13-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-10-2014; Am. Ord. 2017-02, passed 3-
13-2017; Am. Ord. 2020-09, passed 12-14-2020; Am. Ord. 2022-10, passed 11-14-
2022)
ADDENDUM "A"
RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE
FAIRVIEW CEMETERY BOARD
GOVERNING THE OPERATIONS OF
FAIRVIEW CEMETERY
LINTON, INDIANA 47441
INTRODUCTION
   These grounds are the resting place of our beloved. Here they rest from
their labors. The burdened and the carefree will be at ease together. The small
and the great will be here alike. In undisturbed silence, Earth will receive
that which is mortal and perishable, the dust returning unto the dust.
Sustained by our confidence in holy wisdom and goodness, may we learn to face
death in this place of immortality as a house of life.
   As we see and dedicate the visible memorials at the grave of our loved ones,
may we recognize that it is but a symbol of our enduring reverence and
affection.
   That our solemn thoughts may help us to keep these grounds sacred to their
memory, these rules and regulations have been published.
   I.   RULES TO BE OBSERVED BY GRAVE OWNERS.
      1.   LOT WORKERS - The holder of the rights to burial on each lot may
contract a monument company to erect at his/her expense, suitable landmarks to
be set within the headstone perimeter (see IV). There shall be one foundation
for each headstone erected. Double headstones will be centered on one or two
spaces, whichever is specified. (If a family stone is erected on multiple
spaces, the stone will be centered on the specified, owned spaces.)
      2.   TREES, SHRUBS, ETC. - The planting of trees, shrubs, and flowers are
not permitted. As current trees, shrubs and flowers die, they will not be
replaced unless authorized by the cemetery superintendent.
      3.   LOTS - Lots/cemetery spaces shall not be used for any other purpose
than a place of burial for the dead; and no trees within the lots or borders
shall be cut down or destroyed without the consent of the cemetery
superintendent.
      4.   BURIALS - No burials will take place on Sunday.
      5.   FENCES - Private fences, enclosures, curbs, or edgings around lots
will not be allowed.
      6.   VEHICLES - Vehicles will at no time be allowed off the roadways.
      7.   INTERMENTS - Proprietors shall not allow interments to be made in
their lots for remuneration. All interments and lots shall be restricted to the
members of the family and relatives of the proprietor thereof, except special
permission to the contrary and obtained in writing from the cemetery
superintendent.
         No interments are allowed until payment for the lot is provided for
according to the regulations.
      8.   LOT IMPROVEMENTS - Proprietors wishing improvements upon their lots
must pay for the same to the cemetery superintendent, when ordered.
         The grading of all lots must be under the direction of the cemetery
superintendent.
   II.   INTERMENT.
      1.   GRAVE OPENING - All holders of burial permits requesting graves
opened should hand permit to the funeral director who will order the grave
opened by the cemetery board or its representative.
         All orders for opening graves must be made at least twenty-four (24)
hours before time set for the funeral. who will order the grave opened by the
cemetery board of its representative.
         All orders for opening graves must be made at least twenty-four (24)
hours before time set for the funeral.
   III.   REMOVALS.
      1.   Removals will be made only upon presentation of a state removal
permit. The charge will be made according to the estimated time and labor
involved. Any repairs to lot necessitated by removal will be made at the
expense of the holder of the burial removal permits (sodding, seeding, filling,
etc.)
      Only cemetery employees will be allowed to be present at the removal of a
body. Under no conditions will family or curiosity seekers be allowed in the
vicinity at this time.
   IV.   MARKERS, MONUMENTS, FOUNDATIONS. CURBING AND FENCING.
      1.   FOUNDATIONS - Foundations for markers/monuments will be poured with
3,000 lb. concrete. The minimum depth of a foundation must be 24" and should be
increased in depth by an amount equal to the number of inches that the monument
exceeds 24" in height. The soil is to be properly compacted and the foundation
is to be formed at the top at grade level. The concrete is to have a trowel
finish and edged with a minimum 2" border around the monument and a maximum 6"
border of width.
         a.   There shall be one foundation per monument.
      2.   FOOTERS - All footers must be level, flush with the finished ground
level, of finished concrete, extending 4" in all directions from the stone, not
over 4' wide and not over 18" long.
         a.   Lights, shepherds hooks/pot hangers shall not be placed in the
foundation of the headstones. (These items may cause permanent damage to the
foundation of the headstone, of which the cemetery cannot assume
responsibility.)
      3.   MARKERS/MONUMENTS - Markers/monuments are to be located so that the
west edge of the foundation lies against the west edge of the boundary of the
lot.
         a.   Monuments must fit within the parameter of foundation. Park style
benches cannot be used.
      4.   FOUNDATIONS - All foundations of monuments and other structures
shall be made satisfactory to the cemetery superintendent, and no such
foundations shall be put in until approved by the cemetery superintendent.
      5.   HEADSTONES/NO FOOT MARKERS - Headstones are allowed only at the
"head" or west edge of the grave space. No foot markers or other markers shall
be placed at the foot or middle of the graves. (Military markers can be placed
on the back of the stone or used as the headstone.)
      6.   GRAVES - All graves will be flat to the earth.
      7.   STONE LOCATIONS - Stone locations must be approved by the cemetery
superintendent before setting the stone. After October 1, 1980, monument
companies will pay a fee, to be determined by the Cemetery Board, for each
grave for locating headstone site. This fee is to be paid to the cemetery
superintendent who in turn will deposit this money with the Clerk-Treasurer of
the City of Linton, and this money will be credited to the Cemetery Fund.
       8.   MONUMENT/EFFIGY - If any monument, effigy, or any structure
whatever, or any inscription be placed in or upon any lot which shall be
determined by the majority of the Cemetery Board to be offensive, improper, or
injurious to the appearance of the surrounding lots or grounds, the Cemetery
Board shall have the right and shall be their duty to enter upon such lot and
remove the said offensive or improper object or objects.
      9.   CURBING, FENCING, ETC - Curbing, fencing, edging, etc., are not
permitted. As current curbs, metal fences, etc., become broken and/or
deteriorated, they will be removed. No curbs, fences, edging, or trellises will
be permitted in the future. At the discretion of the Cemetery Board, holders of
burial lot deeds or their descendants may be asked to remove curbs and/or
fencing, etc.
   V.   DECORATIONS.
      1.   FLOWERS - Flowers will be permitted in vases and urns the year
round, providing the vases and urns are properly attached to the marker or
monument.
      2.   FUNERAL FLOWERS - Floral designs or other decorations will be
removed from lots or graves as soon as the flowers become wilted or unsightly,
and persons wishing to retain the same must remove them within 48 hours after
the funeral.
      3.   WINTER DECORATIONS - Winter decorations, holly, evergreen, or
artificial wreaths may be placed on graves beginning November 1 and may remain
until March 1, after which date all decorations will be removed. If these are
to be kept for future use, they must be removed and cared for by the holder of
the burial permit before March 1.
      4.    MEMORIAL DAY FLOWERS - Flowers may be put on the grave in the
following manner:
         a.   Flowers will not be placed on the grave earlier than the Saturday
before the legal Memorial Day and must be removed before June 1.
         b.   No glass containers shall be used at any time.
         c.   Any decorations on the ground will be removed.
      5.   POT HANGERS/SHEPHERDS' HOOKS - Pot hangers or shepherds' hooks may
be used at the base/width of the headstones only, in the line with monuments at
the west edge of the lot. The cemetery is not responsible for damage to pot
hangers. (Use at your own discretion.)
   VI.   GENERAL RULES.
      1.   There will be no admittance to the cemetery between sunset and
sunrise.
      2.   Vehicles will at no time be allowed off of the roads.
      3.   Until January 1, 1981, the right to burial grave prices in the Ed
Greenwood Addition to the Fairview Cemetery will be determined by the City
Council, at the request of the Cemetery Board. (Burial prices are subject to
change at any given time, based on the charges set by the burial company.)
      4.   All workmen employed in the construction of vaults, erection of
monuments, landmarks or any other work, must be subject to the control and
direction of the cemetery superintendent; and any workmen failing to conform to
this regulation will not be permitted to afterwards work on the grounds.
      5.   All graves must have a vault that will support the weight of the
earth. No green burials. This includes the burial of ashes; scattering ashes is
not allowed.
      6.   Private burials can take place. A funeral director is required to be
present at a gathering (no matter number of people) for burial.
   It is the objective of the Cemetery Board of Directors of the Fairview
Cemetery to maintain the cemetery in the best way possible within the financial
capabilities of the Board. Flowers, shrubs, curbing, etc. make the job of
mowing the cemetery very difficult if not impossible. For those who have loved
ones interred in the Fairview Cemetery, it is our desire that they try to
understand that the rules and regulations are for the benefit of all.
(Am. Ord. 2017-02, passed 3-13-2017; Am. Ord. 2020-09, passed 12-14-2020; Am.
Ord. 2022-10, passed 11-14-2022; Am. Ord. 2024-13, passed 12-9-2024)
CHAPTER 97: TREES, SHRUBS, VEGETATION, OTHER DEBRIS, AND LANDSCAPE WASTE
Section
Trees and Shrubs
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Creation and establishment of a City Tree Board
   
97.03   Terms of office
   
97.04   Compensation
   
97.05   Duties and responsibilities
   
97.06   `Operation
   
97.07   Street tree species to be planted
   
97.08   Spacing
   
97.09   Distance from curb to sidewalk
   
97.10   Distance from street corners and fire plugs
   
97.11   Utilities
   
97.12   Pubhc tree care
   
97.13   Tree topping
   
97.14   Pruning, corner clearance
   
97.15   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
97.16   Removal of stumps
   
97.17   Interference with City Tree Board
   
97.18   Arborists license and bond
   
97.19   Review by City Council
 
   
97.30 through 97.36    Subchapter on WEEDS was repealed by the Common Council
of the City of Linton, Indiana, Ord. 2013-10, passed 07-08-2013. See
Chapter 94, Health, Sanitation; Nuisances
Vegetation Control
   
97.50   Fees for lot mowing by street department
Landscape Waste
   
97.60   Definitions
   
97.61   Streets to be kept clean
 
   
97.99   Penalty
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES.  Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other wood vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES.  Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other wood vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
(Ord. 00- 4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.02 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A CITY TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the City of
Linton, State of Indiana, which shall consist of five members, citizens, and
residents of this city, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval
of the city.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three
years except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first board
shall be for only one year, and the term of two members of the first board
shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term
of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term. The appointments will be automatically renewed until and
unless replacements are necessary.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.04 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate, counsel
and develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other pubhc areas. The plan will be
presented annually to the city and upon their acceptance and approval shall
constitute the official comprehensive City Tree Plan for the City of Linton,
State of Indiana. The Board, when requested by the city, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report, and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.06 OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations,
and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a
quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.07 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The following list constitutes the official street tree species for the City
of Linton, State of Indiana. No species other than those included in this fist
may be planted as street trees without written permission of the City Tree
Board.
 
Small Trees   Medium Trees Large Trees
Bradford Pear Red Oak      Silver Maple
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.08 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in §
97.07, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet: except in
special plantings designed for approval by a landscape architect.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.09 DISTANCE FROM CURB TO SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks
will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
97.07, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees,
four feet.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.10 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE PLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner,
measured the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street tree
shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.11 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
97.07 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water fine, sewer
line, transmission line, or other utility.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.12 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of the public grounds.
   (B)   The City Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed any
tree or part thereof, which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or
is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pest. This section does
not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing
that the selection and location of the trees is in accordance with §
97.07 through §
97.11.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.13 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
TOPPING  is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to a degree so as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes, or certain trees under the utility wires or other obstructions
where other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this
chapter at the determination of the City Tree Board.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000) Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.14 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the light
from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection so that
there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or
sidewalk. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the pubhc.
The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with the proper spread of light or interferes with
visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-200)
§ 97.15 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city when the trees constitute a hazard to
life and property, or harbor insects or disease, which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city. The City Tree Board will notify in
writing the owners of the trees. Removal shall be done by the owners at their
own expense within 60 days after the date of service or notice. In the event of
failure of owners to comply with the provisions, the city shall have the
authority to remove the trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner's
property tax notice.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.16 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall.be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.17 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
City Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street
trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.18 ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the
city without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall
be $25 annually in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be
required of any public service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued,
each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of Hability insurance in
the minimum amounts of $50,000 for bodily injury and $100,000 property damage
indemnifying the city or any person injured or damaged resulting from the
pursuit of the endeavors as herein described.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.19 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The city shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and decisions of
the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the City
Tree Board to the city that may hear the matter and make a final decision.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
§ 97.30 through § 97.36
   Subchapter on WEEDS was repealed by the Common Council of the City of
Linton, Indiana, Ord. 2013-10, passed 07-08-2013. See
Chapter 94, Health, Sanitation; Nuisances
VEGETATION CONTROL
§ 97.50 FEES FOR LOT MOWING BY STREET DEPARTMENT.
   (A) The City of Linton has property owners that cannot maintain their yard
.themselves.
   (B)   The City of Linton Street Department has been asked to mow private
property by the owner.
   (C)   The City has established the following rules and fees for this:
      (1)   Each property owner must mow his or her property at least three
times in the mowing season.
      (2)   The City Street Department will assess the property owner a
standard fee of $35, with the fee increasing with the size of the yardage to be
mowed.
      (3)   The fee agreed upon must be paid in advance to mowing: payable at
Clerk-Treasurers Office and payable to City of Linton Street Department.
(Ord. 95-15, passed 10-9-1995)
LANDSCAPE WASTE
§ 97.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GUTTER. Any structure, fabrication, roadwork, or any other construction
designed to direct the flow of water along the edge of a street, including but
not limited to a curb.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, including but not limited to
trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
   STREET. Any public alley, street, highway, thoroughfare, or other road.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 97.61 STREETS TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   No property owner, occupant, or any other person shall place, rake, blow, or
in any other way cause any leaves or landscape waste to enter onto any street,
or storm drain, curb, or gutter thereon, adjacent to, abutting, or adjoining
such property owned, occupied, or at which a person is working for hire or as a
volunteer, except at those times and in such manner as specifically established
by the city for the purpose of collection of such landscape waste.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of §§
97.01 et seq. shall be, upon conviction or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine
not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 00-4, passed 3-1-2000)
   (B)   (1)   On default of any owner of real estate within the city limits to
comply with §§
97.30 et seq., or to cause the same to be done, as provided by the laws of the
State of Indiana and the City of Linton, upon ten days' notice from either the
Fire Marshal or the Chief of Police, it shall be the duty of the Street
Commissioner to cause the weeds, including exotic weeds, detrimental plants,
grass, or other rank vegetation to be cut and removed.
      (2)   The Street Commissioner will cut and remove, or cause to have cut
and removed, all matter that violates §§
97.30 et seq.
      (3)   The Street Commissioner will issue a bill for the sum of $150 per
city lot for removal costs, cutting, hauling, or any other service performed.
If the violating property is larger than one city lot, then the bill of $150
for each lot affected will be issued. That bill will be issued to the owner of
the land where the violation has occurred. If that bill is not paid within 30
days of issuance, a tax lien will be certified.
      (4)   If the Fire Chief, Police Chief, or their designee, is summoned to
a property (between April and September of that given year), to cut and remove
weeds, including exotic weeds, detrimental plants, grass, or other rank
vegetation, the property will be declared a nuisance and assessed a penalty of
$500 per occurrence thereafter.
      (5)   All expenses incurred as a result of enforcing §§
97.30 et seq. will be billed to the owner of the violating property.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 7-12-2004; Am. Ord. 2019-1, passed 5-13-2019)
CHAPTER 98: EMERGENCY SERVICE COST REIMBURSEMENT
Section
   
98.01   Title
   
98.02   Authority, findings, and purpose
   
98.03   Recovery of costs
   
98.04   Effective date
§ 98.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Emergency Service Cost Reimbursement
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 98.02 AUTHORITY, FINDINGS, AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Authority. The City Council has the authority to make rules and
regulations for the government of public safety and/or fire companies located
within the city.
   (B)   Findings.  
      (1)   It is recognized that the duties of fire companies require
specialized fire/safety/emergency/rescue/environmental/hazardous material
tools, equipment, materials, supplies and specialized training in order to
provide for the safety of the public served.
      (2)   Such requirements, as well as the response to emergency situations
involving, and/or caused by, non-resident individuals, place a tremendous
financial burden on fire companies.
      (3)   While taxes, if applicable, may provide the fire companies
sufficient financial assistance to exist, in an effort to avoid ever-increasing
tax burdens of the residents of the city, it is found that an alternative
source of funding, emergency service cost reimbursement (i.e., response
billing), should be authorized.
   (C)   Purpose. To grant any fire company operating in Linton and Stockton
Township County of Greene (hereinafter, “fire departments”) the authority to
seek reimbursement for the reasonable cost of responding to such incidents, as
well as the reasonable cost to recoup such costs.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 98.03 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   Fire departments are authorized to recover the reasonable costs of the
use of emergency fire and/or rescue (including but not limited to, vehicle
accidents) personnel hours, tools, equipment, materials and vehicles; hazardous
material and/or environmental response personnel hours, tools, equipment,
materials and vehicles; and reasonable interest on any amount due from the date
of the response forward.
      (1)   Additionally, fire departments are authorized to collect a
reasonable flat-rate fee for any false alarm responses or fire drill responses
for which the Fire Department did not receive at least 48 hours prior notice.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as limiting any
amounts fire departments are authorized to collect under any applicable state
statute or law.
   (B)   The reasonable costs authorized to be billed for under this chapter
may be recovered directly by the Fire Department or through a third party
billing service serving as an authorized agent for the collection of such
costs.
   (C)   The reimbursement rates for the aforementioned costs shall be set by
the billing entity.
   (D)   If a third party billing service is utilized, it shall be authorized
to charge a service charge in addition to the costs it is recovering for the
Fire Department. The service charge will be set by the third party billing
service.
   (E)   All funds recovered under this chapter, and due to the Fire
Department, shall be remitted directly to the Fire Department by either the
responsible party or, if a third party billing service is utilized, by the
third party billing service. All funds recovered under this chapter shall be
exclusively used for the support of the Fire Department in a cumulative
equipment fund.
   (F)   (1)   The Fire Department or third party billing service shall only
have the authority to recover the costs authorized under this chapter from the
applicable insurance company/carrier of the party responsible for the costs
authorized to be billed for under this chapter.
      (2)   In the event that collection costs and/or attorney's fees are
incurred by the Fire Department or third party billing service as a result of
the efforts required to obtained full reimbursement for the costs billed for
under this chapter, they may be recovered by the Fire Department or third party
billing service from the applicable insurance company/carrier of the party
responsible for the costs authorized to be billed for under this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 98.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Costs authorized to be billed under this chapter may be billed from a
retroactive date of not more than 3 years preceding the effective date of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-12-2009)
CHAPTER 99: PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT SIGNAGE
Section
   
99.01   Purpose
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Restrictions
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prevent the posting of signs and notices
on city-owned property and infrastructure in a manner that damages such
property and infrastructure, that risks interference with public use of such
property and infrastructure and that creates a threat to public safety.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT. An announcement intended for the general public from a
private person(s), entity or organization (including for-profit and non-profit
organizations), including but not limited to notice of a garage sale or yard
sale, a "for sale" sign pertaining to real estate or personal property, notice
of a lost person, pet or property, or notification of an upcoming event.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real estate or personal property owned by the city, as
well as any area within a right-of-way or easement of the city, Greene County,
Indiana or the State of Indiana.
   SIGNAGE. Any visual graphic, advertisement or notice, whether consisting of
written language, symbols, pictures or otherwise conveying or communicating
information to the public, including attention-seeking items such as balloons,
streamers or reflective material.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 99.03 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No signage regarding a public announcement may be posted on any
improvements, fixtures or infrastructure owned or controlled by the city or
situated on public property, including but not limited to trees, light poles,
telephone poles, utility poles, street signs, sidewalks, buildings or
structures. Nothing in this provision shall prohibit the posting of ground-
planted signs on public property, provided, however, that such ground-planted
signs shall not exceed 36 inches in height, shall not interfere with the flow
of traffic, including vehicle and/or pedestrian traffic, within the public
right-of-way, and shall not interfere with any other use of the public
property. These restrictions shall not apply to commercial billboards situated
on public property but pursuant to an existing and valid right-of-way or
easement grant. Each violation of this section shall be deemed a separate
offense subject to a separate fine.
   (B)   All signage promoting a specific event (except a political election,
which shall be governed by §
99.03(B), below), such as a garage sale or yard sale, shall not be posted more
than 48 hours prior to the commencement of the event and must be removed within
12 hours of completion of the event. Each violation of this section shall be
deemed a separate offense subject to a separate fine.
   (C)   All political campaign signage posted in advance of an election shall
(1) comply with §
99.03(A), above; (2) shall not be posted more than 30 days prior to the
election date and; (3) shall be removed within five days after the election
date.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalty for violation of this chapter may be levied at the amount
of $50. Each day that signage is posted on public property in violation of this
chapter shall be deemed a separate violation, and the violating person or
entity will be penalized at a cost of $50 per day per violation.
   (B)   If it is determined that a violation of this chapter has caused damage
to city-owned property, the violating person or entity shall reimburse the city
for all damages, costs and expenses incurred as a result of the violation,
including court costs and attorney fees incurred in enforcing this chapter.
   (C)   The placement of signage on public property in violation of this
chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and therefore subject to
applicable nuisance laws. In addition to any other relief provided by this
chapter, the City Attorney may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for
(1) an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation of this
chapter; (2) recovery of the city's damages sustained as a result of the
violation; and (3) recovery of all court costs, attorney fees and out-of-pocket
expenses incurred by the city as a result of the violation.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 7-13-2020)
CHAPTER 100: UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM POLICY
Section
General Provisions
   
100.01   Purpose
   
100.02   Authority
   
100.03   Scope
Definitions
   
100.10   Definitions
Operating Procedures
   
100.20   Operating procedures
   
100.21   Data collection
   
100.22   Accident reporting
 
   
100.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 100.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Policy is to
establish scope and governance of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) activities
for the City of Linton, Indiana (the "city"). It also serves to establish the
designated UAS authority responsible for overseeing UAS activities at the City
of Linton.
   (B)   This policy requires that all City of Linton sponsored UAS operations
taking place on-site or off-site will be conducted in a manner ensuring
individual privacy and safety, in accordance with all applicable federal,
state, and local laws.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 100.02 AUTHORITY.
   The UAS Coordinator is responsible for approving any UAS on City of Linton
property or at any activity or event sponsored by or organized by the City of
Linton.
UAS Coordinator Name: Gary Tannehill
Phone Number:         (812) 798-8085
Email:               gary@cityoflinton.com
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 100.03 SCOPE.
   This policy is applicable to:
   (A)   City employees operating UAS in any location for city activities;
   (B)   All platforms of UAS which include, but are not limited to: sUAS, UAV,
drone, model aircraft, regardless of size or weight;
   (C)   Any individuals who operate UAS for the City of Linton, including
persons not affiliated with the city; and
   (D)   Any individuals operating UAS purchased with funding through the city.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 8-8-2022)
DEFINITIONS
§ 100.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED UAS AUTHORITY. The individual, department, or committee
designated by the city as authorized to provide oversight for UAS activities.
   DRONE. The common term for UAV, UAS, and sUAS.
   FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA). A division of the Department of
Transportation that inspects and rates civilian aircraft and pilots, enforces
the rules of air safety, and installs and maintains air-navigation and traffic-
control facilities.
   REMOTE PILOT-IN-COMMAND (RPIC).  The official term given by the FAA for the
individual who either directly operates the UAS or directly supervises another
individual operating the UAS. The remote pilot in command must have the proper
FAA UAS pilot certifications and abide by the necessary FAA regulations and
this policy.
   UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE (UAV). A powered, aerial vehicle that does not carry
a human operator, uses aerodynamic forces to provide vehicle lift, can fly
autonomously or be piloted remotely.
   UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM (UAS) or DRONE. An aircraft without a human pilot
onboard. Instead, the drone is controlled from an operator on the ground.
Sometimes prefaced as a Small Unmanned Aircraft System (sUAS).
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 8-8-2022)
OPERATING PROCEDURES
§ 100.20 OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Procedure for flight approval. Regardless of flight purpose, anyone
intending to fly a UAS for the city must notify the City UAS Coordinator.
   (B)   AS registration requirement.
      (1)   UAS that weigh more than 0.55 pounds must be registered with the
FAA before an application is submitted. Proof of registration must be submitted
with the application.
      (2)   UAS registration number and owner contact information must be
listed on the UAV.
      (3)   Non-US citizens who are not eligible to register a UAS in the
United States must follow the FAA guidelines.
   (C)   Employee UAS operation. Employees operating UAS on behalf of the city
must adhere to the following:
      (1)   Obtain approval from the city's UAS department;
      (2)   Hold a valid FAA remote pilot certification or be under the
supervision of a person who does hold a remote pilot certificate;
      (3)   Ensure that their UAS is registered and insured; and
      (4)   Complete any required city UAS training.
   (D)   Payload authorization. The person requesting authorization to operate
a UAS must identify the payload function, size, and weight. Access points or
any devices that might interfere with city networks are prohibited.
   (E)   Prohibited UAS use. UAS operation is prohibited if any person(s)
acting as a UAS pilot:
      (1)   Consumed alcohol in the past 12 hours;
      (2)   Have used any drugs that affect the person's faculties in any way;
or
      (3)   Operated without a permit.
   (F)   Standard operating rules.
      (1)   The remote pilot in command must conduct a pre-flight inspection.
The remote pilot should record the pre-flight inspection via hard copy document
or appropriate web-based application.
      (2)   The remote pilot may not go forward with the operation if he or she
believes that there are any physical or mental conditions, drug- or alcohol-
induced or otherwise, that would interfere with the safe operation of the UAS.
      (3)   The remote pilot must maintain visual line-of-sight at all times.
      (4)   Where possible, a visual observer should assist in operations.
      (5)   No operations over people unless those people are directly
participating in the operation.
      (6)   Operations within daylight hours only. City UASs may operate during
twilight hours (30 minutes before official sunrise to 30 minutes after official
sunset) if the UAS has anti-collision lighting.
      (7)   UASs must always yield the right-of-way to other aircraft.
      (8)   Maximum ground speed of 100 mph (87 knots).
      (9)   Maximum altitude of 400 feet above ground level.
      (10)   A UAS may go above 400 feet if it remains within 400 feet of a
structure.
      (11)   Operations must stay within Class G airspace, well away from
airports. However, should the pilot in command determine that to perform city
duties operations may move into Class B, C, D or within the lateral boundaries
of the surface area of Class E airspace, the remote pilot must request and
receive permission from the appropriate Air Traffic Controller. Operations
should also, where practicable, stay at least one mile away from heliports,
including hospitals with heliports.
      (12)   UASs may only fly when visibility is at least at three miles.
      (13)   No operations from a moving aircraft.
      (14)   No operations from a moving vehicle unless the operation is over a
sparsely populated area.
      (15)   No careless or reckless operations (e.g., no stunt flying).
      (16)   No carriage of hazardous materials.
      (17)   In the event of operations that lead to serious injury, loss of
consciousness, or property damage of at least $500, it is the remote pilot's
responsibility to make an official report to the FAA. This can be done in
coordination with designated city supervisors or personnel.
   (G)   Operating limitations; waivers.
      (1)   All remote pilots must make sure UAV operation falls within the
standard FAA Part 107 operating rules.
      (2)   If it becomes clear that compliance with a certain or multiple of
FAA Part 107's limitations is not practical to get the full benefit of the
city's UAS usage, the remote pilot or responsible individual should bring such
to the attention of the UAS coordinator or other assigned supervisor.
      (3)   The city will then make an application to the FAA for a waiver for
the specific FAA Part 107 limitation.
      (4)   Waivers are available for:
         (a)   Operation from a moving vehicle or aircraft (FAA § 107.25);
         (b)   Daylight operation (FAA § 107.29);
         (c)   Visual line of sight aircraft operation (FAA § 107.31);
         (d)   Visual observer (FAA § 107.33);
         (e)   Operation of multiple small unmanned aircraft systems (FAA §
107.35);
         (f)   Yielding the right of way (FAA § 107.37(a));
         (g)   Operation over people (FAA § 107.39);
         (h)   Operation in certain airspace (FAA § 107.41); and
         (i)   Operating limitations for small unmanned aircraft (FAA §
107.51).
   (H)   Pre-flight/post-flight. Pre-flight checklists and mission logs must be
conducted for each UAS mission by the pilot in control or by a third party for
the City of Linton. If more than one drone is flown during the same mission,
each drone and its flight details must be recorded on the mission log report.
Below are examples of a pre-flight checklist and a UAS flight mission log.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 8-8-2022) Penalty, see §
100.99
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e4d0417f25ec5c4eb72ea6b5f35aae1afe2fe807/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1050.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e4d0417f25ec5c4eb72ea6b5f35aae1afe2fe807/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1052.jpg]
§ 100.21 DATA COLLECTION.
   All data collection (e.g., images, video) should be protected and maintained
in strict compliance with organizational security policies and procedures.
Whenever possible, the UAS should divert sensors away from occupied structures
and uninvolved persons to minimize inadvertent, unapproved data collection.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 8-8-2022) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.22 ACCIDENT REPORTING.
   In case of a UAS mishap, the RPIC is responsible for safe custody of the UAS
until the aircraft has been taken into custody by proper authority. Per FAA
Part 107, any operation that results in serious injury, loss of consciousness,
or property damage of at least $500 should be reported to FAA within 10 days.
The report may be submitted to the appropriate FAA Regional Operations Center
(ROC) electronically or by telephone.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 8-8-2022) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   Any violations of city policies by an individual will be dealt with in
accordance with applicable city policies and procedures, which may include
disciplinary actions up to and including termination of employment.
(Ord. 2022-05, passed 8-8-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES
   
111.   TRANSIENT VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES
Section
   
110.01   Gun permit and accident report fees
§ 110.01 GUN PERMIT AND ACCIDENT REPORT FEES.
   (A)   Gun permits. There is hereby established a fee of $10 for gun permits
issued by the Linton Police Department.
   (B)   Accident reports. There is hereby established a fee of $5 for accident
reports and payable to the Linton Police Department. This fee is set for any
individual who is involved in an accident; payable by individual or insurance
company.
   (C)   Effective Date. This section will take effect upon adoption of the
ordinance.
(Ord. 95-14, passed 10-9-1995)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT VENDORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Persons required to be licensed
   
111.03   License fee
   
111.04   Duration of sale
   
111.05   Expiration of license
   
111.06   Transference of license
   
111.07   Duty of police to enforce
   
111.08   Records of licenses to be kept
   
111.09   Unlawful
   
111.10   Exhibition of license
   
111.11   Application for license; certificate to be attached
   
111.12   Investigation of applicant; issuance
   
111.13   Surety bond required
   
111.14   Use or public property
   
111.15   Revocation of license
   
111.16   Appeal
   
111.17   Full disclosure
   
111.18   Name tags and identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXECUTIVE. The Mayor of the City of Linton, Indiana.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled.
   OFF-SITE CAR SALES. The selling, buying, or trading of motor vehicles away
from the person's or entities' principle place of business.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person or entity wanting to hold an off-site car
sale in Linton
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.02 PERSONS REQUIRED TO BE LICENSED.
   (A)   The following persons must be licensed by the state of Indiana, Greene
County, and the City of Linton, to engage in the business of buying, trading,
transferring, or selling motor vehicles off-site from their established place
of business, within the city:
      (1)   An automobile auctioneer.
      (2)   A converter manufacturer.
      (3)   A dealer.
      (4)   A distributor.
      (5)   A distributor branch.
      (6)   A distributor representative.
      (7)   A factory branch.
      (8)   A factory representative.
      (9)   A manufacturer.
      (10)   A transfer dealer.
      (11)   A wholesale dealer.
   (B)   No off-site sales license will be issued to a person who does not have
an established business in the state of Indiana.
   (C)   No off-site sales license will be issued to a dealer proposing to
conduct the off-site sale more than ten miles from the dealer's principle place
of business.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for such license as herein provided shall be the sum of $100,
payable in advance of receipt of the license to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.04 DURATION OF SALE.
   Duration of the off-site sale will be no more than 48 hours. The 48 hours
starts at 9:00 a.m. on the first day the person brings the first item of
inventory to the site of the off-site sale.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.05 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire 90
days after the date of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed therein.
The calculation of the 90 days begins and includes the date the application is
submitted for consideration.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.06 TRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be transferred, assigned, or otherwise delegated in any way
at any time, even if the same individual, person, business, or other entity has
applied for the license and now operates under a different identification. No
license shall be presumed to be valid if issued in the name of any individual,
person, business, or other entity, and that individual, person, business, or
entity later changes its name, location, place of business, or status. Any
change whatsoever in identity of the named licensee will render the license
invalid. A new license will need to be obtained if any change of this nature
occurs.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.07 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of Police Officers of the Linton Police Department of
the city to examine all places of business and persons in their respective
territories subject to the provisions of this chapter, to determine if this
chapter has been complied with and to enforce the provisions of this chapter
against any person, business, or entity found to be violating this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.08 RECORDS OF LICENSES TO BE KEPT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit the record of fingerprints of licensee,
together with a license number, with the Chief of Police; the Chief of Police
shall report to the Clerk-Treasurer any complaints against any person(s)
licensed under the provisions of this chapter and any conviction for violation
of this chapter; the Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of all licenses and of
those complaints and violations.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.09 UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for an entity, as defined in §
111.01, to engage in such business within the city without first obtaining a
license in compliance with all parts, subpart, and portions of this chapter.
Failure to do so may result in the application being denied, or if already
issued, may render the application void.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.10 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   The license issued under this chapter shall be posted conspicuously in the
place of business named therein. In the event that the person or persons
applying for the license shall desire to do business in more than one place
within the city, separate licenses must be issued for each place of business,
and shall be posted conspicuously in each place of business.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.11 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CERTIFICATE TO BE ATTACHED.
   (A)   Applicants for license under this chapter, whether a person, firm or
corporation, shall file a written, sworn application signed by the applicant,
if an individual, by all partners of a partnership, and by the president if a
corporation, with the City Clerk-Treasurer, showing:
      (1)   The name and names of the person or persons having the management
or supervision of applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that
it will be carried on in the city; the local address or addresses of that
person or persons while engaged in such business; the permanent address or
addresses of such person or persons; the capacity in which such person or
person will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); the name
and address the business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation,
under the laws of what state the same is incorporated;
      (2)   The fingerprints of all persons having the management or
supervision of applicant's business, and, at least three letters of
recommendation from reliable property owners in the city certifying as to the
applicants' good character and business responsibility, or other evidence which
establishes to the satisfaction of the Executive the good character and
business responsibility of that person or persons, along with fingerprints of
all persons and employees who may be present on the date(s) of the off-site
sale in the city, along with their names, home addresses, business addresses,
and social security numbers;
      (3)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that
the business shall be conducted;
      (4)   The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of
the applicant, where applicant, within the six months preceding the date of the
application, conducted off-site sales, stating the nature thereof and giving
the post office and street address of any building or office in which that
business was conducted, along with all proposed places for subsequent off-site
sales, if any;
      (5)   A statement of the nature, character, and quality of the goods,
wares or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by applicant in the city;
the invoice value and quality of those goods, wares and merchandise; whether
the same are proposed to be sold from stock in possession or from stock in
possession and by sample; at auction, by direct sale or by indirect sale and by
taking orders for future delivery; whether the goods or property proposed to be
sold are manufactured or produced, and where those goods or products are
located at the time the application is filed;
      (6)   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising
done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and copies of all
advertising whether by handbills, circular, newspaper advertising, or
otherwise, shall be attached to the application as exhibits;
      (7)   Whether or not the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime,
misdemeanor, or the violation of any provision of this code or other ordinance
of the city, the nature of the such offense, the state in which the offense was
committed, the complete criminal history of the person, and the punishment
assessed, for any crime whatsoever. Additionally, for all persons who are
employed and who may be present on the date(s) of the sale, supply a complete
criminal history and affix it to the application;
      (8)   Credentials from the person, firm, or corporation for which the
applicant proposes to do business, signed and notarized, authorizing the
applicant to act as the representative; and
      (9)   Any other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person or persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's
business or the method or plan of doing such business as the officials, police
officers, the Clerk-Treasurer, or the Executive may deem proper to fulfill the
purpose of this chapter in the protection of the public good.
      (10)   The full legal name of the entity(ies) or person(s), telephone
number(s), social security number(s), driver's license number(s), home address,
business address, and written, signed certification, for the contact person who
will respond to consumer complaints, whether those complaints are warranty
issues or otherwise, who shall be available for a period of time of not less
than 180 days following the last date that the transient merchant sells or
offers to sell goods or automobiles within the city, and if that person is not
the applicant or an agent of the applicant, and is a warrantor, guarantor,
assign, agent, or in any way a separate entity from applicant, a signed and
verified statement that the person or entity accepts the appointment as the
contact person and that they will be available for a period of not less than
180 days following the last date that the Transient Merchant sells or offers to
sell goods or automobiles within the city;
      (11)   Photocopies of all titles for all vehicles proposed to be brought
to the city for off-site sale. All titles must be titled to the transient
merchant who endeavors to sell automobiles at the off-site sale in Linton,
Indiana, and shall not be titled to any other person or entity. If, at the time
of application, those titles are unavailable or unknown, applicant transient
merchant shall supply the current, updated, valid, titles for all vehicles that
will be transported via any means, to the city, for the off-site sale not less
than 60 days before the sale is to take place. Failure to do so will render the
license void;
      (12)   A complete list of all financing companies with which applicant
deals, in order to finance the sale of the automobiles for consumers, or for
which the applicant deals to purchase automobiles, including the legal business
names, the addresses, Indiana state licensing, FDIC or other insurances, and
all other pertinent identification information and contact information, if
those companies will be used in any way to aid in financing the sale of
automobiles by the transient merchant during the off-site sale in Linton; and
      (13)   A complete list of the names of any and all servicing agents for
the person or entity, legally established within the state of Indiana, who is
authorized to receive service of process of legal papers or other certified
documents, including, if applicable, the address, telephone number, or other
valid contact information for the person or entity. If the applicant is the
only person who is able to accept service, state that. If the applicant has
agents or employees authorized to accept service of process, state that
person's name, address, telephone number, and other identifying information.
      (14)   Attach proof of all applicable insurances for all liability,
persons, premises, willful conduct, vehicles, the dealership itself, or any
other entity who owns the automobiles, along with the amount of insurance
coverage, the type of insurance, the name, address and telephone number(s) for
all insurance companies who furnish insurance that will cover any situation
that may arise at the off-site sale, including premises insurance, and attach
copies of all insurance policies to this application. The application must
include proof of insurance for not less than $1,000,000 for personal injuries
or death to any one person; $500,000 for injuries or death in any one
occurrence; and, $200,000 for property damage.
      (15)   Attach written permission of the landowner for the use of the real
estate, along with the landowner's premises insurance coverage(s); any
contracts signed between the transient merchant and the land owner with regard
to the off-site sale; any and all stipulations, agreements, limitations, or
other terms set by the transient merchant and the landowner with regard to the
off-site sale, along with the amount of money landowner is charging for rent
for the off-site sale.
      (16)   Attach and fully disclose any and all incidents that have taken
place at all other off-site sales held by applicant (or applicant's company,
dealership, retail store, or by any entity in which applicant has been
affiliated) at any other location in the past ten years where persons or
property sustained damage, the amount of the damage, the amount of the
insurance payments to those injured, the dates of the incidents, the names of
the persons injured, addresses of persons injured, and a complete narrative of
the incident. Attach a copy of any police, fire, ambulance, EMS, or other
agency reports of the incident.
   (B)   Attached to the application shall be a copy of a valid license from
the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles to sell motor vehicles, so required by
law.
   (C)   The application shall be verified.
   (D)   Attached to the application shall be a copy of a valid transient off-
site sales license from the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles to sell motor
vehicles off-site, within 20 miles of the place of business.
   (E)   Attached to the application shall be signed, sworn, notarized
statements by the applicant and all of the persons who will be participating in
the sale, whether they be owners, agents, employees, third parties, or other
persons involved in the off-site sale on the date(s) of the sale or the 180
days immediately following the sale have read this chapter, understand the
terms and provisions thereof, and that each agrees to be bound to comply with
all portions of this chapter or be held personally liable for any failure to
comply with the laws of the City of Linton, Indiana.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.12 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of such application, the Executive shall cause an investigation
of that person's or person's business responsibility or moral character to be
made as he or she deems necessary to the protection of the public good. If, as
a result of the investigation, the applicant's character and business
responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the application shall be denied.
If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business reputation
appears to be satisfactory, the Executive shall so certify in writing, and a
license shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep
a full record in his or her office of all licenses issued. The license shall
contain the number of the license, the date the same is issued, the nature of
the business authorized to be carried on, the amount of the license fee paid,
the expiration date of the license, the place where the business may be carried
on under the license, and the name or names of the person or persons authorized
to carry on the same.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.13 SURETY BOND REQUIRED.
   Before any license shall be issued for engaging in a business as defined in
this chapter, the applicant shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer a penal bond
running to the city in the sum of $10,000 or three times the value of the goods
or automobiles intended to be sold or offered for sale, whichever is greater.
The bond must be executed by the applicant, as principal, and two sureties upon
which service of process may be made in the state; the bond to be approved by
the City Attorney, conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all
the provisions of this code and any other ordinances of the city and the
statutes of the state, regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise. Applicant will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant
for any violation of this chapter or statutes, or any of them, together with
all judgments and costs that may be recovered against the applicant by any
person or persons for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deceptive
practices of any person transacting business with the applicant, whether these
misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by
their servants, agents, or employees, either at the time of making the sale or
through any advertisement of any character whosoever, printed or circulated
with reference to the goods, wares, and merchandise sold, or any part thereof.
Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use of the
aggrieved person. The bond must be approved by the City Attorney, both as to
form, substance, and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.14 USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Before any license shall be issued for engaging in business as transient
merchant, upon public property, the applicant must obtain permission from the
Board of Public Works and Safety for the use of that property and in the manner
prescribed. The Board of Public Works and Safety may require the applicant to
provide proof of bodily injury and property damage liability insurance in an
amount in excess of the amounts stated in §
111.11(A)(14), if, during the application process, it is found that applicant
has had one or more incidents of death, bodily injury, property damage, or
other incident in the past five years that caused the insurance company to have
to pay on a claim.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.15 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The permits and licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be
revoked by the Executive, after notice and hearing, for any of the following
causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares, or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed under this chapter in an unlawful
manner or in a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a
menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing of revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
licensee, at the last known address, at least seven days prior to the date set
for the hearing.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.16 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Executive in regard to the
denial of application or license as provided for or in connection with the
revocation of a license, shall have the right to appeal to the Common Council.
The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council within 14 days after
notice of the decision by the Executive has been mailed to the last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The
Council shall set the time and place for a hearing on the appeal and notice of
such hearing shall be given to that person in the same manner for notice of
hearing on revocation. The order of the Common Council on the appeal shall be
final.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.17 FULL DISCLOSURE.
   If, while any application is pending, or during the term of any license
granted thereon, there is any change in any fact, policy, or method that would
alter the information given in the application, the applicant shall notify the
Linton Police Department, the Executive, the Clerk-Treasurer, and the City
Attorney in writing of the change within 48 hours of the change. If the
transient merchant fails to so notify, the license issued to the applicant or
transient merchant shall either be suspended or shall be void.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.18 NAME TAGS AND IDENTIFICATION.
   All persons brought by applicant or the transient merchant to the off-site
sale in the city shall wear a laminated name badge with their name, affiliation
to the transient vendor, title or job classification, department name, and a
two-inch by two-inch photograph affixed underneath the lamination. Each person
who is onsite for the sale shall supply, upon demand, a valid driver's license
or state identification card. The driver's license and the name badge must
match exactly in every detail.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whosoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than $2,500 for the first incident. A second violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $7,500. If cause for violation of the
chapter is not remedied, the cause shall be deemed to be separate from any
other violation of any other provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 9-11-2006)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   130.01   Rules of conduct for all city owned property
   130.02   Synthetic cannabinoid prohibited
 
   130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 RULES OF CONDUCT FOR ALL CITY OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   The rules of conduct are as follows:
      (1)   No loitering, littering;
      (2)   Profanity, obscene language;
      (3)   Double parking, blocking traffic; and/or
      (4)   Roadway, or harassment of patrons.
   (B)   Anyone in violation of this section will be cited by the Linton Police
Department. There will be no fine imposed but the person cited will be barred
from the property for a period of 90 days from the time of citation.
   (C)   If the person refuses to leave, or returns to the property within the
stated 90-day period he or she will be arrested for criminal trespass, I.C. 35-
43-2-2.
(Ord. 01-05, passed 5-21-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to use, possess,
purchase, attempt to purchase, sell, publicly display for sale or attempt to
sell, give, or barter any one or more of the following chemicals within the
boundaries of the city:
      (1)   2-[1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol {'
{'}also known as CP 47, 497, and its C6, C7, C8, and C9 homologues{'}'}.
      (2)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo [c] chromen-1-ol {'{'}also known as HU-210{'}'}.
      (3)   Naphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl) methanone {'{'}also known as 1
Pentyl-3-(1- naphthoyl)indole or JWH-018{'}'}.
      (4)   Napthalen-1-(1-butylindol-3-yl) mentanone {'{'}also known as 1-
Butyl-3-(1-napthoyl)indole or JWH-073{'}'}.
   (B)   If any of the substances listed in division (A) herein are found in
the possession of any person, they may be confiscated by law enforcement.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person acting or in possession of
the substances at the direction of licensed medical or dental professionals.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 10-11-2010) Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any business found to be in violation of §
130.02 will be subject to a civil fine in the amount of $2,500. Any person
found in violation of §
130.02 will be subject to a fine in an amount not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 10-11-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
   
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
152.   AMISH CABINS, MOBILE HOMES, TINY HOMES, AND CAMPER CONVERSIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Standards
   
150.01   Enforcement of building standards
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.02   Unsafe Building Law
   
150.03   Unsafe Building Fund Established
   
150.04   Conditions Constituting Unsafe Buildings and Unsafe Premises
   
150.05   Penalty
BUILDING STANDARDS
§ 150.01 ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Common Council of the City of Linton, in order to protect the
health and safety of its citizens, determines that the City of Linton should
adopt and incorporate by reference Indiana Code 36-7-9, and any subsequent
amendments or additions to the statute, in order to provide a method for the
enforcement of building standards and for regulation and abatement of unsafe
building and unsafe premises.
   (B)   The City of Linton hereby adopts and incorporates by reference Indiana
Code 36-7-9 and all amendments and additions thereto, as from time to time may
be made pursuant to Indiana Code 36-7-9-3.
   (C)   The Iinton Municipal Fire Department is the executive department
authorized to administer the provisions of this Ordinance and of Indiana Code
36-7-9.
   (D)   The Fire Chief of the Linton Municipal Fire Department is the
Enforcement Authority, as defined by Indiana Code 36-7-9, and is authorized to
engage inspection officers and other designees and/or agents to assist in the
administration of this chapter.
   (E)   The Board of Works of the City of Linton is the Hearing Authority, as
defined by Indiana Code 36-7-9.
   (F)   If any notice is issued or action taken that directs or orders the
repair, removal, or abatement of any unsafe building, unsafe premises,
structure, or condition, any person with a "substantial property interest" in
the real property on which the unsafe building, unsafe premises, structure, or
condition is situated shall be entitled to such notice. The definition of
"substantial property interest" in Indiana Code 36-7-9 is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference.
   (G)   This Chapter shall apply to all unsafe buildings and unsafe premises
and
Chapter 94 shall be inapplicable to unsafe buildings and unsafe premises,
except insofar as a violation of
Chapter 94 could serve as a basis for proceeding under Section
150.04(5). All procedures for issuing violation notices, orders, appeals, and
any other administration of this Chapter shall be pursuant to Indiana Code 36-
7-p and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. 83-4, passed 7-12-1983; Am. Ord. 2012-06, passed 05-14-2012)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.02 UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   (A)   All unsafe building law and procedures in the City of Linton shall be
governed exclusively by section 150 of the Municipal Code, Indiana Code 36-7-9,
and any other applicable State and Federal law, and any ordinances or
provisions in the Municipal Code that are inconsistent with section 150 or
Indiana Code 36-7-9 hereby are repealed.
   (B)   In the event that an inconsistency between section 150 and Indiana
Code 36-7-9 exists, the provisions of the Indiana Code shall supersede and
apply and the provision of the Municipal Code that is inconsistent with the
Indiana Code shall be void.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to erect or enlarge,
maintain, permit, lease, use, or otherwise own an interest in any property
within the City on which an unsafe building or unsafe premises exists.
(Ord. 80-4, passed 2-28-1980; Am. Ord. 2012-06, passed 05-14-2012)
§ 150.03 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND ESTABLISHED.
   An Unsafe Building Fund hereby is established in the operating budget of the
City of Linton in accordance with the provisions of Indiana Code 36-7-9.
(Ord. 80-4, passed 2-28-1980; Am. Ord. 2012-06, passed 05-14-2012)
§ 150.04 CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND UNSAFE PREMISES.
   Any of the following shall constitute an unsafe building and/or unsafe
premises:
      (1)   Property that is in impaired structural condition that makes it
unsafe to a person or property;
      (2)   Property that is a fire hazard;
      (3)   Property that is a hazard to the public health;
      (4)   Property that is a public nuisance as denned by this chapter or any
other city ordinance;
      (5)   Property that is dangerous to a person or property because of a
violation of a statute or ordinance concerning building condition or
maintenance;
      (6)   Property that is vacant and not maintained in a manner that would
allow human habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirement of any statute
or ordinance;
      (7)   Property that has any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of
exit that is not of sufficient width or size or is not arranged so as to
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (8)   Property that has the walking surface of any aisle, passageway,
stairway, or other means of exit so warped, worn, loose, damaged, missing,
dilapidated, fire-damaged, unfinished, weather-worn, or otherwise unsafe so as
not to provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (9)   Property that has stress on any material member or portion thereof
due to dead and/or Eve loads, that is more that 1-1/2 times the working stress
allowed for new buildings or similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (10)   Property that has any portion thereof that has been damaged by
fire, earthquake, wind, flood, storm, other natural disaster, or other cause to
an extent that the structural strength or stability thereof is materially less
than it was before the event and is less than the nainimum requirements for new
hundings of similar structure, purpose, or location;
      (11)   Property that has any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof
that is reasonably likely to fail, to become detached, dislodged, or to
collapse and thereby injure persons or damage property;
      (12)   Property that has any exterior portion, member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation thereon that is not of sufficient strength or stability, or is
not anchored, attached, or fastened, so as to be capable of resisting a wind
pressure of 1/2 of that specified for new bundings or similar structure,
purpose, or location without exceeding the working stresses permitted for the
buildings;
      (13)   Property that has any portion thereof that was warped, buckled, or
settled to an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially
less resistance to winds, weather conditions, storms, floods, fires,
earthquakes, or other invasive conditions, than is required in the case of new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for the buildings;
      (14)   Property that is or has any portion thereof that, because of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the support of the building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause is reasonably Ukely to partially or completely
collapse.
      (15)   Property that is or has any portion thereof that is manifestly
unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (16)   Property that has exterior walls or other vertical structural
members that list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing
through the center of gravity does not fall inside the middle 1/3 of the base;
      (17)   Show, that the property has exclusive of its foundation, 33% or
more damage or deterioration of any supporting member, or 50% or more damage to
deterioration of any non-supporting member, enclosure, or outside wall or
covering;
      (18)   That the property has been so damaged by fire, wind, earthquake,
flood, or other cause, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (19)   Property that has been constructed, exists, or maintained in
violation of any specific requirement, prohibition or regulation under the laws
of the State of Indiana, or an city ordinance, or building regulations relating
to the condition, location, or structure of buildings;
      (20)   Property that has, in any supporting or non-supporting part,
member, exterior, roof, or portion, less than 75% of the:
         (a)   Strength;
         (b)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics;
         (c)   Weather-resisting characteristics that would be required by law
in the new construction for buildings of similar height and occupancy; or
         (d)   Exterior surfaces covered in weather-resistant material.
      (21)   Property that is used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, and, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities or otherwise is determined by the Greene County Board of Health to
be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in a condition that it is likely
to cause sickness or disease;
      (22)   Property that is because of obsolescence, dilapidated condition,
deterioration, damage, inadequate exits or lack of sufficient fire-resistive
construction, determined by the Linton Fire Department to be a fire hazard;
      (23)   Property that is the remnant of a building or structure that
remains on site after the attempted demolition or destruction of the building
or structure;
      (24)   Property that is abandoned for a period in excess of six months,
so as to constitute an attractive nuisance to children, or hazard to the
public;
      (25)   Property that has panes of glass missing, shards of glass on the
exterior at a level of height that could endanger the health, safety, and
welfare of persons or property;
      (26)   Property that is property as denned in state law, which has been
used as a landfill or dump, contains non-exempted underground storage tanks,
contains hazardous waste, or contains environmental defects as defined by
Indiana or Federal environ mental laws or regulation.
(Ord. 80-4, passed 2-28-1980; Am. Ord. 2012-06, passed 05-14-2012)
§ 150.05 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who or entity that, after having been served notice
pursuant to this Chapter and to Indiana Code 36-7-9, fails to complete the
ordered repair, removal, or abatement within the time ordered by the
Enforcement Authority shall be fined consistent with Indiana Code 36-7-9-28,
which fine shall be in addition to any other costs and expenses for which the
person or entity may be liable pursuant to this Chapter and Indiana Code 36-7-
9:
(Ord. 80-4, passed 2-28-1980; Am Ord. 2012-06, passed May 14, 2012)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Methods
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
   
151.002   Findings of fact
   
151.003   Statement of purpose
   
151.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
Definitions
   
151.015   Definitions
General Provisions
   
151.025   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.026   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.027   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.028   Compliance
   
151.029   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.030   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
151.031   Interpretation
   
151.032   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.045   Designation of Administrator
   
151.046   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements
   
151.047   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.048   Administrative procedures
   
151.049   Map maintenance activities
   
151.050   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.060   Floodplain status standards
   
151.061   General standards
   
151.062   Specific standards
   
151.063   Standards for subdivision and other new developments
 
   
151.999   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance 2006-04, passed on 9-11-2006 is repealed by Ordinance 2022-04 as
set out below.
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
§ 151.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
City Council of Linton does hereby adopt the following floodplain management
regulations.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare. Additionally, structures
that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss. In order to minimize the threat of
such damages and to achieve the purposes hereinafter set forth, these
regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
area;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
DEFINITIONS
§ 151.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure with a floor area of 400 square feet or
less that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure and the
use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure. An accessory
structure specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      (1)   Accessory structures are considered walled and roofed where the
structure includes at least two outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof.
      (2)   Examples of accessory structures include but are not necessarily
limited to two-car detached garages (or smaller), carports, storage and tool
sheds, and small boathouses.
      (3)   The following may have uses that are incidental or accessory to the
principal structure on a parcel but are generally not considered to be
accessory structures by the NFIP:
         (a)   Structures in which any portion is used for human habitation,
whether as a permanent residence or as temporary or seasonal living quarters,
such as a detached garage or carriage house that includes an apartment or guest
quarters, or a detached guest house on the same parcel as a principal
residence;
         (b)   Structures used by the public, such as a place of employment or
entertainment; and
         (c)   Development that does not meet the NFIP definition of a
structure for floodplain management purposes. Examples include, but are not
necessarily limited to, a gazebo, pavilion, picnic shelter, or carport that is
open on all sides (roofed but not walled).
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE).  Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other modification which may alter,
impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the flow of water
during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter, a request for a variance, or a
challenge of a board decision.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% annual chance
flood or 100 year flood.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The water surface elevation of the base flood
in relation to a specified datum, usually the North American Vertical Datum of
1988.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD LAYER (BAFL). Floodplain studies and any corresponding
floodplain maps prepared and/or approved by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources which provide base flood elevation information, floodplain limits,
and/or floodway delineations for flood hazards identified by approximate
studies on the currently effective FIRM (Zone A) and/or for waterways where the
flood hazard is not identified on available floodplain mapping.
   BUILDING. See "Structure."
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas within its jurisdiction.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, and installations which produce, use or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. For floodplain management purposes, any man-made change to
improved or unimproved real estate including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
      (5)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of boat lifts, docks, piers, and
seawalls;
      (7)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (8)   Storage of materials; or
      (9)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of existing
structures and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing roads; or,
gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not involve
filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent structures.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.  A FEMA form that is routinely reviewed and approved
by the White House Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork
Reduction Act, that is encouraged to be used to collect certified elevation
information.
   ENCLOSED AREA (ENCLOSURE).  An area of a structure enclosed by walls on all
sides.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See "Lowest Floor" and "Enclosed Area."
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. For floodplain management purposes, any material deposited or placed
which has the effect of raising the level of the ground surface above the
natural grade elevation. FILL material includes but  is not limited to
consolidated material such as concrete and brick and unconsolidated material
such as soil, sand, gravel, and stone.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      (3)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding
and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally
dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited
along the path of the current.
   FLOOD or FLOODING also includes the collapse or subsidence of land along the
shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result of erosion or undermining
caused by waves or current of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels that
result in a flood as defined above.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  Areas subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG).  The BFE plus two feet at any given location
in the SFHA. See FREEBOARD.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA.  Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source. See FLOOD.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. The term describes such state or local regulations in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING).  A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.  A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FREEBOARD.  A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE or FLOOD FRINGE.  The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE.  A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HARDSHIP.  As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The City
Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is NOT
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive or requires the property owner to build elsewhere
or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by (a)
an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior, or (b)
directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS.  Analyses performed by a
professional engineer licensed by the State of Indiana, in accordance with
standard engineering practices that are accepted by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and FEMA, used to determine the base flood, other frequency
floods, flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries, and flood
profiles.
   INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL-EVALUATION SERVICE (ICC-ES) REPORT.  A document
that presents the findings, conclusions, and recommendations from a particular
evaluation. ICC-ES reports provide information about what code requirements or
acceptance criteria were used to evaluate a product, and how the product should
be identified, installed.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD).  A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They are broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR).  FEMA's comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, result in modification of the
SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F).  A
letter from FEMA stating that a proposed structure that will be elevated by
fill would not be inundated by the base flood.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).  An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a building or land is not
located in a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A
LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT OUT AS SHOWN (LOMA-OAS). An official
determination by FEMA that states the property or building is correctly shown
outside the SFHA as shown on an effective NFIP map. Therefore, the mandatory
flood insurance requirement does not apply. An out-as-shown determination does
not require elevations.
      (5)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).  An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (6)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F).  FEMA's modification
of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the
existing regulatory floodway.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  For floodplain management purposes, the lowest elevation
described among the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor of a building.
      (2)   The basement floor.
      (3)   The garage floor if the garage is connected to the building.
      (4)   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or pillars.
      (5)   The floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement, below an
elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to
the flow of floodwaters. Designs for meeting the flood opening requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
         (b)   At least two openings are designed and maintained for the entry
and exit of floodwater; and these openings provide a total net area of at least
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all
such openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher. Doorways
and windows do not qualify as openings.
      (6)   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or columns in a
coastal high hazard area (as that term is defined in 44 CFR 59.1), as long as
it meets the requirements of 44 CFR 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a "recreational vehicle."
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION.  Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
mitigation is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
cost of disaster response and recovery.
   NATURAL GRADE.  For floodplain management purposes. the elevation of the
undisturbed natural surface of the ground. Fill placed prior to the date of the
initial identification of the flood hazard on a FEMA map is also considered
NATURAL GRADE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  For floodplain management purposes, any structure for
which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88).  As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION.  Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or, due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNNAL CHANCE FLOOD.  The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR).  An official republication of a community's
FEMA map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory  floodways, and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PREFABRICATED BUILDING. A building that is manufactured and constructed
using prefabrication. It consists of factory-made components or units that are
transported and assembled on-site to form the complete building.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND.  At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
151.026. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term "base flood", "1%
annual chance flood", and "100-year flood".
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
   RIVERINE.  Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SHEET FLOW AREA.  See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY.  Any facility involved in the storage or
disposal of non- liquid, non-soluble materials ranging from municipal garbage
to industrial wastes that contain complex and sometimes hazardous substances.
Solid waste also includes sewage sludge, agricultural refuse, demolition
wastes, mining wastes, and liquids and gases stored in containers.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Synonymous with "areas of special flood
hazard" and “floodplain”. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the City of
Linton subject to a l% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on
Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Insurance Studies as Zones A, AE, AH, AO,
A1-30, A99. The SFHA includes areas that are flood prone and designated from
other federal, state or local sources of data including but not limited to best
available flood layer maps provided by or approved by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, historical flood information reflecting high water marks,
previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone soils associated with a
watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground. The term includes a manufactured home,
as well as a prefabricated building. It also includes recreational vehicles
installed on a site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred "repetitive loss"
or "substantial damage" regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WALLED AND ROOFED.  A building that has two or more exterior rigid walls and
a fully secured roof and is affixed to a permanent site.
   WATERCOURSE.  A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.025 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard (SFHAs) within
the jurisdiction of the City of Linton, Indiana as identified in §
151.026, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
city.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.026 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city delineated as an "AE Zone" on
the Greene County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated January 7, 2015 shall be determined from the 1% annual chance flood
profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Greene County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) dated
January 7, 2015 as well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
Should the floodway limits not be delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
for a studied SFHA designated as an "AE Zone", the limits of the floodway will
be according to the best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the City of Linton delineated as an "A
Zone" on the Greene County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate
Map, dated January 7, 2015, as well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best available flood layer provided by
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage
area from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available flood layer data, the party needs to replace
existing data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.027 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.028 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the most conservative
(highest) base flood elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed
structure; or for other developments, affecting any part of the area of the
development.
   (C)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.029 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.030 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)    In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) with base flood elevations provided (riverine or lacustrine Zone AE) on
the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on the
profiles or table of still water elevations shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the natural grade elevation of the site in question is at or above
the base flood elevation and a LOMA or LOMR-FW is obtained, the floodplain
regulations will not be applied provided the LOMA or LOMR-FW is not
subsequently superseded or invalidated.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.031 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.032 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the City of Linton, the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.045 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Council of the Linton hereby appoints Commonwealth Engineering Inc.
to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein
referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022; Am. Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-12-2024; Am. Ord.
2025-01, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 151.046 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator for all development activities located wholly within,
partially within, or in contact with an identified special flood hazard area.
Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his/her
authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual
commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Such
applications shall include, but not be limited to plans drawn to scale showing
the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question;
existing or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or
equipment, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development;
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
      (3)   A legal description of the property site;
      (4)   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of an
existing structure, or an addition to an existing building, a detailed quote
and description of the total work to be completed including but not limited to
interior work, exterior work, and labor as well as a certified valuation of the
existing (pre-improved or pre-damaged) structure;
      (5)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades;
      (6)   Verification that connection to either a public sewer system or to
an approved on- site septic system is available and approved by the respective
regulatory agency for proposed structures to be equipped with a restroom,
kitchen or other facilities requiring disposal of wastewater.
      (7)   Plans showing elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures in Zones A, AE. Elevation
should be in NAVD 88;
      (8)   Plans showing elevation (in NAVD 88) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed;
      (9)   Plans showing location and specifications for flood openings for
any proposed structure with enclosed areas below the flood protection grade;
      (10)   Plans showing materials to be used below the flood protection
grade for any proposed structure are flood resistant;
      (11)   Plans showing how any proposed structure will be anchored to
resist flotation or collapse;
      (12)   Plans showing how any electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities are designed and/or
located. Elevation should be in NAVD 88;
      (13)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis is required, and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR
for approval. Once DNR approval is obtained, a FEMA Conditional Letter of Map
Revision must be obtained prior to construction.
      (14)   Any additional information, as requested by the Floodplain
Administrator, which may be necessary to determine the disposition of a
proposed development or structure with respect to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Construction stage. Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an
elevated structure or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of
the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator an elevation
certificate for the building under construction. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the elevation certificate. Any deficiencies detected during the
review shall be corrected by the applicant before work is allowed to continue.
Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required
hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction.
      (1)   Upon completion of construction of any structure requiring
certification of elevation, an elevation certificate which depicts the "as-
built" lowest floor elevation and other applicable elevation data is required
to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator. The elevation
certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor and certified by the same.
      (2)   Upon completion of construction of an elevated structure
constructed on fill, a fill report is required to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to verify the required standards were met, including
compaction.
      (3)   Upon completion of construction of a floodproofing measure, a
floodproofing certificate is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator. The floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or architect
and certified by same.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.047 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Evaluate application for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied;
      (3)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
      (4)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance;
      (5)   Advise permittee that additional federal, state and/or local
permits may be required. If specific federal, state and/or local permits are
known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file
with the floodplain development permit;
      (6)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas,
must meet the development standards of these regulations;
      (7)   For applications to improve structures, including alterations,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Verify and document the market value of the pre-damaged or pre-
improved structure;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement; or the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition; or, the combined costs
of improvements and repair, if applicable, to the market value of the pre-
damaged or pre-improved structure. The cost of all work must be included in the
project costs, including work that might otherwise be considered routine
maintenance. Items/activities that must be included in the cost shall be in
keeping with guidance published by FEMA to ensure compliance with the NFIP and
to avoid any conflict with future flood insurance claims of policyholders
within the community;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of "substantial improvement' for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flood, the determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage as specified in the
definition of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the applicable general and specific standards in §
151.060 - §
151.063 are required.
      (8)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (9)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§
151.061. Maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual permit/
authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (10)   Verify the upstream drainage area of any proposed development site
near any watercourse not identified on a FEMA map to determine if §
151.047(B)(9) is applicable.
      (11)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
151.045.
      (13)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
151.045.
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with §
151.048.
      (15)   Coordinate with insurance adjusters prior to permitting any
proposed work to bring any flood-damaged structure covered by a standard flood
insurance policy into compliance (either a substantially damaged structure or a
repetitive loss structure) to ensure eligibility for ICC funds.
      (16)   Ensure that an approved connection to a public sewer system or an
approved on-site septic system is planned for any structures (residential or
non-residential) to be equipped with a restroom, kitchen or other facilities
requiring disposal of wastewater.
      (17)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
      (18)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke
permits and take corrective actions in accordance with §
151.048.
      (19)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and "as-built" elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter in accordance with §
151.048.
      (20)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and associated FEMA follow-
up in accordance with §
151.049.
      (21)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (22)   Request any additional information which may be necessary to
determine the disposition of a proposed development or structure with respect
to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.048 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and terms of the permit. In exercising this
power, the administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credential,
to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable
hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop work orders.
      (1)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Floodplain management records.
      (1)   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention
of public records, records of actions associated with the administration of
this chapter shall be kept on file and maintained under the direction of the
Floodplain Administrator in perpetuity. These records include permit
applications, plans, certifications, Flood Insurance Rate Maps; Letter of Map
Change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits; determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation of
elevations required by this chapter; notifications to adjacent communities,
FEMA, and the state related to alterations of watercourses; assurances that the
flood carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained;
documentation related to appeals and variances, including justification for
issuance or denial; and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   These records shall be available for public inspection at Linton
City Hall located at 86 South Main Street, Linton, IN 47441.
   (E)   Periodic inspection. Once a project is completed, periodic inspections
may be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
Floodplain Administrator shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credential, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the
department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.049 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet NFIP minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved
by FEMA, and to ensure that the city flood maps, studies and other data
identified in §
151.026 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have required
technical data for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision or Letter of Map
Revision and submitted to FEMA. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources
will review the submittals as part of a partnership with FEMA. The submittal
should be mailed to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources at the address
provided on the FEMA form (MT-2) or submitted through the online Letter of Map
Change website. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be
the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a Conditional Letter of
Map Revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for
proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor and may be submitted to
FEMA at any time.
   (C)   Annexation / detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the city have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the Greene County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map accurately represents the City of
Linton boundaries, includes within such notification a copy of a map of the
city suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits or the
new area for which the city has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.050 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Greene
County Circuit Court.
   (C)   In considering such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (E)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter shall only be granted
when the Board can make positive findings of fact based on evidence submitted
at the hearing for the following:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship as defined in §
151.015.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (F)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
151.060 may be granted.
   (G)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
151.060 will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
Variances shall not be issued within any designated regulatory floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §§
151.060 et seq. may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a
lot of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an "historic
structure" and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
   (J)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use.
   (K)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (L)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (M)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Flood Protection Grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (N)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.060 FLOODPLAIN STATUS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Floodways (riverine). Located within SFHAs, established in §
151.026, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. Under the provisions of the
Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1) a permit for construction in a floodway from
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance
of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or
obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation
activities such as filling, grading, clearing, and paving undertaken before the
actual start of construction of the structure. General licenses and exemptions
to the requirements of the Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1 and 312 IAC 10) may
apply to qualified additions/improvements to existing lawful residential
structures, rural bridges, logjam removals, wetland restoration, utility line
crossings, outfall projects, creek rock removal, and prospecting.
      (1)   If the site is in a regulatory floodway as established in §
151.026, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant to forward
the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for approval for construction
in a floodway, provided the activity does not qualify for a general license or
exemption (I.C. 14-28-1 or 312 IAC 10).
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
approval has been granted by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for
construction in the floodway, or evidence provided by an applicant that the
development meets specified criteria to qualify for a general license or
exemption to the requirement of the Flood Control Act. The floodplain
development permit shall meet the provisions contained in this chapter.
      (3)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than
an approval issued for construction in a floodway issued by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, or the specified criteria used to qualify for
a general license or exemption to the Flood Control Act for a specific site/
project. However, a community's more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
      (4)   In floodway areas identified on the FIRM, development shall cause
no increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge
without first obtaining a Conditional Letter of Map Revision and meeting
requirements of §
151.049. A Conditional Letter of Map Revision cannot be issued for development
that would cause an increase in flood levels affecting a structure and such
development should not be permitted.
      (5)   In floodway areas identified by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources through detailed or approximate studies but not yet identified on the
effective FIRM as floodway areas, the total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not adversely affect the efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity
of, the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as an increase in the
elevation of the regulatory flood of at least fifteen- hundredths (0.15) of a
foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under the
project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as proven
with hydraulic analyses.
      (6)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the city shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR § 65.12.
   (B)   Fringe (riverine). If the site is in the fringe (either identified on
the FIRM or identified by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources through
detailed or approximate studies and not identified on a FIRM), the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in this chapter have been met.
   (C)   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/
fringes (riverine).
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper
written approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be
issued, provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
chapter have been met.
   (D)   SFHAs not identified on a map.
      (1)   If a proposed development site is near a waterway with no SFHA
identified on a map, the Floodplain Administrator shall verify the drainage
area upstream of the site. If the drainage area upstream of the site is
verified as being greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the one-percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood
protection grade has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this chapter have been met.
(Ord 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.061 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction, reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive
loss structure (optional), and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG;
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements must incorporate methods
and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG for
residential structures. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above
the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components below the FPG for non-residential structures. Water and sewer
pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other
waterproofed service facilities may be located below the FPG;
   (E)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of"new construction" as contained in this chapter;
   (I)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres;
   (J)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development.
   (K)   Fill projects that do not involve a structure must be protected
against erosion and scour during flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk
heading. If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no steeper than 3'
horizontal to 1' vertical.
   (L)   Non-conversion agreements shall be required for all new or
substantially improved elevated structures with an enclosure beneath the
elevated floor, accessory structures, and open-sided shelters. (optional)
   (M)   Construction of new solid waste disposal facilities, hazard waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted in areas of special flood hazard. (optional)
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.062 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data or
flood depths have been provided, as set forth in §
151.026, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Building protection requirement.  In addition to the general standards
described in §
151.061, structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a residential structure;
      (2)   Construction or placement of a non-residential structure;
      (3)   Addition or improvement made to an existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land). An addition and/or
improvement project that is continuous in scope or time is considered as one
project for permitting purposes;
      (4)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred (the costs of any proposed additions or
improvements beyond restoring the damaged structure to its before damaged
condition must be included in the cost);
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site;
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (7)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
(optional)
      (8)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous repair, addition or improvement constructed since the community's
first floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structures shall meet provisions described in §
151.060 and applicable general standards described in §
151.061.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
at or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate
a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of §
151.062(B)(3). Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of §
151.062(B)(4) must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Flood openings
must be designed and certified by a registered design professional (requires
supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES Report), or
meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If there are multiple enclosed areas, each is required to meet the
requirements for enclosures, including the requirement for flood openings in
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            3.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings;
            4.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A residential structure may be constructed on fill in accordance
with the following
         (a)   Fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than 3' horizontal to 1' vertical;
         (d)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties;
      (5)   A residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation (also called chain wall,
raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-wall-with-fill) must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (C)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any non-residential
structures (excludes accessory structures) shall meet provisions described in §
151.060 and applicable general standards described in §
151.061.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction, or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (excludes accessory
structures) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
or above the FPG or be floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid
foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient
to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with the standards of §
151.061. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of §
151.062(C)(4) must be met.
      (3)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin I. Flood openings
must be designed and certified by a registered design professional (requires
supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES Report), or
meet the following criteria for non- engineered flood openings:
            1.   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If more than one enclosed area is present, each must have openings
on exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            3.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings;
            4.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (4)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed on fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep before
compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the Standard or
Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing compliance shall
be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be no steeper than 3' horizontal to 1' vertical;
         (d)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties;
      (5)   A nonresidential structure may be floodproofed in accordance with
the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that, below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (6)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in the SFHA:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in §
151.062(C)(3).
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site in the SFHA shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days and be fully licensed and
ready for use on a public highway (defined as being on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions), or
         (b)   Meet the requirements for "manufactured homes" as stated earlier
in this section.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of
an accessory structure must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Shall have a floor area of 400 square feet or less;
      (2)   Use shall be limited to parking of vehicles and limited storage;
      (3)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (4)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (5)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (6)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (7)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG;
      (8)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in §
151.062.
      (9)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the structure from its continued designation as an accessory
structure.
   (F)   Free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar
development. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of free-standing
pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar development must meet the
following standards:
      (1)   Shall have open sides (having not more than one rigid wall);
      (2)   Shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement;
      (3)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below the FPG;
      (4)   Any electrical, heating, plumbing and other service facilities
shall be located at/above the FPG;
      (5)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the development from its continued designation as a free-standing
pavilion, gazebo, carport, or similar open-sided development.
   (G)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. Within SFHAs, all newly
placed aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks shall meet the requirements for
a non-residential structure as required in §
151.062.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.063 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and all other proposed new development (including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code for the city. All violations
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $100.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The City Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-8-2022)
CHAPTER 152: AMISH CABINS, MOBILE HOMES, TINY HOMES, AND CAMPER CONVERSIONS
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Placement of Amish cabins, mobile homes, and/or tiny homes/tiny
houses; procedure
   
152.03   General requirements
   
152.04   Camper/motor home/recreational vehicle conversions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning,
   AMISH CABIN. A pre-fabricated cabin, or a similar shelter/dwelling assembled
either elsewhere, or on-site from a pre-manufactured kit, commonly marketed as
an "Amish cabin," or any similar and comparable pre-fabricated cabin or
shelter/dwelling assembled from a pre-manufactured kit and used as a residence
or dwelling.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety.
   CAMPER/MOTOR HOME/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A motor vehicle and/or trailer with
facilities for sleeping and cooking, which was originally manufactured or
converted for the purpose of recreational camping and travel.
   CITY. Refers to the City of Linton, Greene County, Indiana.
   COMMON COUNCIL. Refers to the Common Council of the city.
   MOBILE HOME. A vehicle, including the equipment sold as a part of the
vehicle, that meets the following conditions:
      (1)   Is constructed for use as a conveyance upon public streets or
highways by either self-propelled or not self-propelled means;
      (2)   Was originally designed, constructed, reconstructed, or added to by
means of an enclosed addition or room, to permit the occupancy as a dwelling
for at least one person, or is used and occupied as a dwelling;
      (3)   Is not supported, cannot be supported, or is not manufactured to be
supported by a fully enclosed permanent foundation; and
      (4)   Consists of fewer than 1,500 square feet of inhabitable interior
space or is less than 20 feet in width; or
      (5)   Any dwelling meeting the definition of "mobile home" found at I.C.
16-41-27-4.
   MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY LICENSED BY STATE OF INDIANA. As used in this chapter,
MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY shall have the meaning set forth at I.C.16-41-27-5.
   TINY HOME/TINY HOUSE. A pre-fabricated dwelling that does not typically
exceed 550 square feet, commonly marketed as a "tiny home" or "tiny house."
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-13-2020)
§ 152.02 PLACEMENT OF AMISH CABINS OR MOBILE HOMES OR TINY HOMES/TINY HOUSES;
PROCEDURE.
    No person shall place or locate an Amish cabin, mobile home or tiny home/
tiny house within the corporate limits of the city except as provided by this
section.
   (A)   Mobile Home Community, state-regulated. Any Amish cabin, mobile home
or tiny home/tiny house must be placed in a mobile home community, licensed and
regulated by the state as provided in I.C. 16-41-27, et. seq;
   (B)   Grandfathering provisions. Any Amish cabin, mobile home, or tiny home/
tiny house already in existence, and located within the corporate limits for
the city, at the time this chapter is approved is exempt from this chapter.
However, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the replacement of any
such Amish cabin, mobile home, or tiny home/tiny house on the lot.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-13-2020)
§ 152.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    The city shall enforce the standards of health and sanitation as
prescribed for mobile homes and mobile home communities by the State of
Indiana, in accordance with I.C. 16-41-27-1.
   (B)   The owner of any Amish cabin, mobile home or tiny home/tiny house or
land containing same shall further comply with all State of Indiana laws
pertaining to mobile homes, and any additional health and sanitation
requirements as established by the Board and approved by the Common Council.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-13-2020)
§ 152.04 CAMPER/MOTOR HOME/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE CONVERSIONS.
    Campers/motor homes/recreational vehicles may be converted to a dwelling
use, subject to the following: Each must be located in a state-licensed mobile
home community.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-13-2020)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    The penalty for violation of this chapter may be levied at the amount
of $50. Each day the Amish cabin, mobile home, tiny home/tiny house, converted
camper or mobile home community is in violation is a separate violation, and
the violating owner will be penalized at a cost of $50 per day per violation.
   (B)   The placement or occupancy of any Amish cabin, mobile home or tiny
home/tiny house in violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and therefore subject to applicable nuisance laws. In addition to any
other relief provided by this chapter, the City Attorney may apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any
violation of this chapter. The application for relief may include seeking a
temporary injunction and permanent injunction.
   (C)   Legal fees for prosecution of violations of this chapter will be
assessed against the violator in the amount of $125 per day. Additional fees
and costs will be levied against the violator in amounts established by the law
of the State of Indiana in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-13-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
   
I.   CONTRACTS
   
II.   ANNEXATION
   
III.   EMPLOYEE PROVISIONS
   
IV.   FUNDS
   
V.   VACATING STREETS OR PROPERTY
   
VI.   BOUNDARIES
   
VII.   MISCELLANEOUS
TABLE I: CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
82-7A     5-18-1982   Joining Indiana Municipal Power Agency
82-8      5-18-1982   Power sales contract between city and Indiana Municipal
                      Power Agency
82-20     12-29-1982  Amendment of Power Sales Contract
01-04     5-21-2001   Amendatory agreement to power sales contract
02-03     5-13-2002   Renewal and extension of cable television
02-05     7-23-2002   Common Council of the City of Linton
02-06     7-23-2002   Housing Management Realty
2007-05   7-9-2007    Second amendatory agreement to power sales contract
Res. 18-3 11-13-2018  Purchase of natural gas from PEFA, Inc.
2019-4    9-9-2019    Third amendatory agreement to power sales contract
                     
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATION
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
247      3-13-1940   Annexing certain territory to City of Linton
- -      2-27-1967   Adjacent and contiguous territory
84-12    8-13-1984   Ordinance of annexation
                     Annexation of part of the Southwest Quarter of the
2007-02  4-9-2007    Southeast Quarter of Section 23, Township 7 North, Range 7
                     West, estimated to contain 0.20 of an acre, more or less
                     Annexation of approximately 53.7 acres, comprised of three
2007-10  12-10-2007  parcels located in parts of Section 23, Township 7 North,
                     Range 7 West; and part of Section 24, Township 7 North,
                     Range 7 West
                     Annexation of approximately 49.04 acres located in part of
2021-01  3-8-2021    the south half of Section 13, Township 7 North, Range 7
                     West of the Second Principal Meridian, Stockton Township
                     of Greene County, Indiana.
                    
 
TABLE III: EMPLOYEE PROVISIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2005- - -    Travel mileage rate, per diem for employees
20
285   6-12-  Firemen’s Pension Fund
      1951
286   7-10-  Policemen’s Pension
      1951
479   6-29-  Holidays for city employees
      1978
480   6-29-  Personal days for city employees
      1978
2005- 12-12- Salaries for elected officers
18    2005
2006- 9-11-  Salaries of appointed employees; elected officials; employees of the union
03    2006   contract; temporary and approved employees
2006- 10-9-  Salaries for elected officers
08    2006
2007- 9-11-  Salaries of appointed employees; elected officials; employees of the union
06    2007   contract; temporary and approved employees
2007- 11-13- Salaries for elected officers
08    2007
2008- 7-14-  Travel mileage for city employees
06    2008
2009- 10-12- Salaries for elected officers
12    2009
2009- 10-12- Salaries of appointed employees; elected officials; employees of the union
13    2009   contract; temporary and approved employees
2010- 10-18- Salaries for elected officers
07    2010
2010- 10-18- Salaries of appointed employees; elected officials; employees of the union
08    2010   contract; temporary and approved employees
2011- 9-12-  Salaries for elected officers
03    2011
2011- 9-12-  Salaries of appointed employees; elected officials; employees of the union
04    2011   contract; temporary and approved employees
2012- 06-11- Salaries of appointed employees
12    2012
2013- 09-09- Salaries of appointed employees; employees of the I.B.E.W. union contract;
12    2013   temporary and approved employees
2013- 09-09- Salaries of elected officials
14    2013
2014- 08-19- Salaries of appointed officers of the City of Linton
07    2014
2014- 12-08- Salaries of appointed officers, temporary positions, I.B.E.W. union contract
13    2014   wage schedules, pool wages, clothing allowances, fringe benefits, and paid-time
             off all effective on January 1, 2015
2015- 12-14- Salaries of appointed employees; elected officials; employees of the union
05    2015   contract; temporary and approved employees
             Salaries of appointed employees to be paid by the municipal utilities and the
             civil city; to establish the maximum salaries of the elected officials to be
2016- 11-14- paid by municipal utilities and the civil city; to establish the maximum
11    2016   salaries for the employees of the IBEW Union Contract to be paid by the civil
             city and the municipal utilities of the city and to establish salaries for
             temporary and approved employees to be paid by the municipal utilities
             Establish the maximum salaries of appointed employees to be paid by the
             municipal utilities and the civil city; and to establish the maximum salaries
2017- 11-13- of the elected officials of the city to be paid by the municipal utilities and
06    2017   the civil city; to establish the maximum salaries for employees of the IBEW
             Union Contract to be paid by the civil city and the municipal utilities of the
             city and to establish salaries for temporary and approved employees to be paid
             by the municipal utilities
             Establishing the maximum salaries of appointed employees to be paid by the
             municipal utilities and the civil city; and to establish the maximum salaries
2018- 10-9-  of the elected officials of the city to be paid by the municipal salaries for
05    2018   employees of the IBEW, union contract to be paid by the civil city and the
             municipal utilities of the city and to establish salaries for temporary and
             approved employees to be paid by the municipal utilities
2019- 10-15- Salaries of elected and appointed officials
06    2019
2020- 3-26-  Salaries of appointed officers and employees for 2020
02    2020
             Establishing the maximum salaries of elected officials and appointed employees
             to be paid by the civil city; and to establish the maximum salaries of elected
2020- 10-13- officials and appointed employees of the city to be paid by the municipal
06    2020   utilities; to establish the maximum salaries for employees of the IBEW union
             contract to be paid by the civil city and the municipal utilities of the city
             and to establish salaries for temporary and approved employees to be paid by
             the municipal utilities
2020- 12-14- Amending the city's 2021 salary ordinance for appointed officers and employees
08    2020
             Establishing the maximum salaries of elected officials and appointed employees
             to be paid by the civil city; and to establish the maximum salaries of elected
2021- 12-13- officials and appointed employees of the city to be paid by the municipal
09    2021   utilities; to establish the maximum salaries for employees of the IBEW union
             contract to be paid by the civil city and the municipal utilities of the city
             and to establish salaries for temporary and approved employees to be paid by
             the municipal utilities
             Establishing the maximum salaries of elected officials and appointed employees
             to be paid by the civil city; and to establish the maximum salaries of elected
2022- 10-11- officials and appointed employees of the city to be paid by the municipal
06    2022   utilities; to establish the maximum salaries for employees of the IBEW union
             contract to be paid by the civil city and the municipal utilities and to
             establish salaries for temporary and approved employees to be paid by the civil
             city and the municipal utilities
2022- 10-11- Amending the Employee Handbook with regard to employees of the Fire Department
08    2022   and Police Department
             Establishing the maximum salaries of elected officials and appointed employees
             to be paid by the civil city; and to establish the maximum salaries of elected
2023- 5-8-   officials and appointed employees of the city to be paid by the municipal
04    2023   utilities; to establish the maximum salaries for employees of the IBEW union
             contract to be paid by the civil city and the municipal utilities and to
             establish salaries for temporary and approved employees to be paid by the civil
             city and the municipal utilities
             Establishing the maximum salaries of elected officials and appointed employees
             to be paid by the civil city; and to establish the maximum salaries of elected
2023- 10-26- officials and appointed employees of the city to be paid by the municipal
06    2023   utilities; to establish the maximum salaries for employees of the IBEW union
             contract to be paid by the civil city and the municipal utilities and to
             establish salaries for temporary and approved employees to be paid by the civil
             city and the municipal utilities
2024- 6-10-  Authorizing members of the City Council to participate in the city’s employee
07    2024   health insurance plan
             Establishing the maximum salaries of elected officials and appointed employees
             to be paid by the civil city; and to establish the maximum salaries of elected
2024- 6-10-  officials and appointed employees of the city to be paid by the municipal
08    2024   utilities; to establish the maximum salaries for employees of the IBEW union
             contract to be paid by the civil city and the municipal utilities and to
             establish salaries for temporary and approved employees to be paid by the civil
             city and the municipal utilities
             Establishing the maximum salaries of elected officials and appointed employees
             to be paid by the civil city; and to establish the maximum salaries of elected
2024- 12-9-  officials and appointed employees of the city to be paid by the municipal
10    2024   utilities; to establish the maximum salaries for employees of the IBEW union
             contract to be paid by the civil city and the municipal utilities and to
             establish salaries for temporary and approved employees to be paid by the civil
             city and the municipal utilities
             Establishing the maximum salaries of elected officials and appointed employees
             to be paid by the civil city; and to establish the maximum salaries of elected
2024- 12-9-  officials and appointed employees of the city to be paid by the municipal
12    2024   utilities; to establish the maximum salaries for employees of the IBEW union
             contract to be paid by the civil city and the municipal utilities and to
             establish salaries for temporary and approved employees to be paid by the civil
             city and the municipal utilities
            
 
TABLE IV: FUNDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
84-6         5-14-1984   Electric Cash Reserve Fund
98-4         6-8-1998    City Purchasing Agency is established
98-5         6-8-1998    Purchasing rules
00-14        12-11-2000  Fire Station Building Fund
2005-19      12-12-2005  Transfer monies between major classifications within a
                         department
2005-21      - -         Transfer of funds
2006-10      11-13-2006  Transfer of funds
2006-11      11-13-2006  Transfer monies between major classifications within a
                         department
2006-16      12-11-2006  Transfer monies between major classifications within a
                         department
2007-09      11-13-2007  Transfer of funds
2009-11      9-14-2009   Transfer monies between major classifications within a
                         department
2012-04      3-19-2012   Appropriation of funds
2013-15      10-14-2013  Appropriation of funds
2014-09      10-13-2014  Appropriation of Linton Civil City funds
2012-22      12-10-2012  Borrowing funds
2015-03      6-8-2015    Appropriating money
2015-04      10-12-2015  Appropriations and tax rates
2016-04      6-13-2016   Establishing a LOIT Special Distribution Fund
2016-05      7-11-2016   Amending Ordinance #2005-007
2016-06      7-11-2016   Transfer of funds to Rainy Day Funds
2018-4       10-9-2018   Appropriations and tax rates
2018-06      12-10-2018  Transfer of funds
2019-03      7-8-2019    Additional appropriations for non DLGF funds
2019-5       10-15-2019  Appropriations and tax rates
2020-05      10-13-2020  Appropriations and tax rates
2020-07      11-9-2020   Approving appropriation reductions for the 2020
                         swimming pool (Fund 216) budget
2021-03      5-10-2021   Establishing the ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery
                         Grant Fund
Res. 2021-06 4-21-2021   Authorizing an additional appropriation for the Local
                         Home Rule Edit (430) Fund in the 2021 budget year
2021-07      10-12-2021  Appropriations and tax rates
Res. 2021-14 8-9-2021    Approving the appropriation of funds from the American
                         Rescue Plan Act Fund
2022-09      10-20-2022  Appropriations and tax rates
Res. 2022-07 12-12-2022  2022 year end budget transfers
Res. 2023-01 1-9-2023    Creating the Opioid Settlement Unrestricted Fund
                         (2256)
Res. 2023-02 1-9-2023    Creating the Opioid Settlement Restricted Fund (2257)
Res. 2023-03 2-13-2023   Approving the appropriation of funds from the American
                         Rescue Plan Act Fund
Res. 2023-05 3-13-2023   Approving the appropriation of funds from the American
                         Rescue Plan Act Fund
Res. 2023-07 4-10-2023   Approving the appropriation of funds from the American
                         Rescue Plan Act Fund
Res. 2023-08 5-8-2023    Approving the appropriation of funds from the American
                         Rescue Plan Act Fund
Res. 2023-12 9-11-2023   Encumbrance of funds
Res. 2023-13 9-11-2023   Approving the appropriation of funds from the American
                         Rescue Plan Act Fund
Res. 2023-14 10-10-2023  Approving the appropriation of funds from the American
                         Rescue Plan Act Fund
2023-05      10-10-2023  Appropriations and tax rates
Res. 2023-15 11-13-2023  Appropriation of funds
Res. 2023-16 12-11-2023  Transfer of funds
Res. 2023-17 12-11-2023  Transfer of funds from one major budget classification
                         to others
Res. 2023-18 12-11-2023  Transfer of funds
Res. 2023-19 12-11-2023  Encumbrance of funds
Res. 2024-01 1-8-2024    Encumbrance of funds
Res. 2024-02 1-8-2024    Approving the appropriation of funds from the American
                         Rescue Plan Act Fund
2024-01      1-8-2024    Creating the Utility Assistance Clearing Fund (8976)
2024-02      1-8-2024    Creating the Golf Tournament Clearing Fund (8977)
2024-05      4-9-2024    Re-establishing the Cumulative Capital Development
                         Fund
Res. 2024-05 7-8-2024    Approving the appropriation of funds from the American
                         Rescue Plan Act Fund
Res. 2024-06 8-12-2024   Approving the appropriation of funds from the American
                         Rescue Plan Act Fund
2024-09      10-15-2024  Appropriations and tax rates
Res. 2024-09 10-15-2024  Transfer of funds
Res. 2024-10 10-15-2024  Approving and appropriating funds
Res. 2024-11 12-9-2024   Appropriations of funds
Res. 2024-12 12-9-2024   Reducing the 2024 Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
                         budget
Res. 2024-13 12-9-2024   Year end budget transfers
Res. 2024-14 12-9-2024   Approving the appropriation of funds from the American
                         Rescue Plan Act Fund
                        
 
TABLE V: VACATING STREETS OR PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
90-1  1-8-   Vacating street; L.T. Dickason’s Addition
      1990
92-7  7-27-  Vacating alley; Island Coal Company
      1992
95-8  7-10-  Vacating portion of “H” Street
      1995
98-8  7-13-  Streets and alleys contiguous to Linton-Stockton
      1998
2009- 3-9-   Vacating portion of Laura Street
07    2009
2011- 9-12-  Vacating portion of South Park Avenue
05    2011
2013- 9-09-  Vacating portion of 20' alley; Haseman's 3rd and 4th Addition
13    2013
2013- 11-12- Vacating portion of platted street abutting Lots 1 and 2 in Highland Place
16    2013   Addition in City of Linton
2014- 02-10- Vacating 12 ft. alley, Cine LP grants gas line easement to City
1     2014
2013- 9-9-   Vacating a portion of a 20 foot alley platted between the north line of Outlot
13    2013   1 in Haseman’s 3D addition to the city and the south lines of Lots 41 and 60
             in Haseman’s fourth addition
2013- 11-12- Vacating a portion of Tenth Street NE
16    2013
2018- 4-9-   Vacating a platted alley contiguous to the real property of Linton-Stockton
2     2018   School corporation
2020- 7-27-  Confirming the vacation of a portion of Heitman's Addition to Linton
04    2020
2021- 7-12-  Vacating portions of certain alleyways and roadways of H Street between Blocks
05    2021   1 and 2 Terhune's First Addition
2024- 5-13-  Vacating a portion of an alley established pursuant to the original plat of
06    2024   Hubbard’s Second Addition
2024- 11-12- Vacating a portion of a 12-feet wide alley running north and south between
11    2024   Lots 38 and 39 in Yeoman’s First Addition
            
 
TABLE VI: BOUNDARIES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Descriptions
- -      6-12-1989   Vacate and terminate Ord. 393
90-11    8-13-1990   Ordinance to change precinct boundaries
 
TABLE VII: MISCELLANEOUS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
80-21        8-14-1980   Sale of Linton Park Property
82-7         4-29-1982   Creation of Indiana Municipal Power Agency
2005-16      11-14-2005  Accept transfer of a 1974 Howe 85-foot emergency
                         ladder unit from the City of Greendale
2005-17      11-14-2005  Disposal of personal property, the 1969 Squirt Unit to
                         the City of Lyons, Indiana Volunteer Fire Department
2011-06      10-3-2011   Sewage works revenue bonds
2011-07      10-3-2011   Waterworks revenue bonds
2012-01      2-13-2012   Amendment of Ordinance 2009-17 to change amount of
                         matching fund to install the Retrofit Project
2017-7       12-11-2017  Certain storm water improvement revenue bonds
2018-3       8-13-2018   Certain storm water improvements revenue bonds
Res. 2018-1  1-8-2018    Authorizing application submission and local match
                         commitment
Res. 2018-02 1-8-2018    Nominating a member of the Greene County Economic
                         Development Commission
Res. 2019-01 1-14-2019   Nominating member of Greene County Economic
                         Development Commission
Res. 2019-2  3-11-2019   Purchase of real estate - Lot 27 in original plat of
                         town
Res. 2019-3  3-11-2019   Granting encroachment easement for portion of Central
                         Avenue
Res. 2019-4  10-15-2019  Lease of fire equipment
                         Authorizing submittal of grant application for
Res. 2019-5  12-9-2019   Community Development Block Grant Owner Occupied
                         Rehabilitation
Res. 2020-1  1-13-2020   Nominating member of Greene County Economic
                         Development Commission
Res. 2020-02 2-10-2020   Authorizing CDBG grant application
Res. 2021-01 1-11-2021   Nominating member of Greene County Economic
                         Development Commission
Res. 2021-03 3-8-2021    Authorizing CDBG grant application
Res. 2021-04 3-8-2021    Approving sale of real estate to commonly known as
                         West Vicennes Street
Res. 2021-07 5-10-2021   Approving sale of real estate commonly known as 77
                         East Vicennes Street
Res. 2021-08 5-10-2021   Approving sale of real estate commonly known as West
                         Vicennes Street
Res. 2021-09 6-14-2021   Authorizing CDBG grant application
Res. 2021-10 6-14-2021   Approving sale of real estate commonly known as 77
                         East Vicennes Street
Res. 2021-11 7-12-2021   Approving sale of real estate commonly known as West
                         Vicennes Street
                         Authorizing the use of surplus bond proceeds for the
Res. 2021-12 8-9-2021    purpose of providing funds to pay the cost of certain
                         additions, extensions, and improvements to the
                         municipal sewage works of the city
Res. 2021-15 8-9-2021    Approving sale of real estate commonly known as West
                         Vicennes Street
                         Designating an economic revitalization area and fixing
Res. 2021-16 10-12-2021  a date, time and place for a public hearing thereon
                         for the Indiana Municipal Power Agency
                         Confirming the adoption of a declaratory resolution
Res. 2021-17 11-8-2021   designating an economic revitalization area on
                         application of the Indiana Municipal Power Agency
Res. 2022-01 1-10-2022   Nominating a member of the County Economic Development
                         Commission
Res. 2022-04 5-9-2022    Concerning authorization for execution of INDOT
                         agreements
Res. 2022-05 12-12-2022  Approving the addition of one parcel of property to
                         the redevelopment allocation area
Res. 2023-06 3-13-2023   Approving the sale of surplus equipment (street
                         sweeper)
Res. 2023-09 6-12-2023   Revoking banking authority
Res. 2023-10 7-10-2023   Appointing a Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
Res. 2023-11 7-5-2023    Authorizing execution of a membership agreement in the
                         Indiana Public Employers’ Plan, Inc.
Res. 2024-04 5-13-2024   Adopting a second amended and restated agreement and
                         declaration of trust of the Aim Medical Trust
Res. 2024-07 8-12-2024   Approving sale of real estate commonly known as 15
                         North Main Street
Res. 2024-08 9-9-2024    Approving sale of real estate commonly known as 15
                         North Main Street
                        
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites           Code Section
1-1-1-5              10.04
1-1-1-7              10.12
1-1-1-8              10.06
1-1-4-5              10.05
1-1-5-1              10.11
1-1-6-1              10.08
1-1-7-1              94.16
5-4-1-18             35.02
5-11-1-27            33.05
8-1.5-3-8            53.01;
                     54.15
8-1.5-3-9.1          50.01
8-22-3               34.01;
                     34.02
9-13-2-49.3          72.10
9-13-2-69.7          72.10
9-13-2-175           72.10
9-18-12              94.17
9-21-1-3             72.11
9-21-8-41            70.06
9-21-9-2             72.12
9-21-9-4             72.12
9-22-1               94.15
9-22-1-1 - 9-22-1-32 94.17
9-22-1-30            94.17
9-24-1-7             72.12
13-20-8              91.06
13-20-8-1            91.06
14-16                72.01
14-16-1-22           72.01
14-23-7-5            91.01
14-28-1              151.060
16-41-27 et seq.     152.02
16-41-27-1           152.03
16-41-27-4           152.01
16-41-27-5           152.01
22-9-1-4 et seq.     92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.     92.01
22-9.5-2-2           92.02
22-9.5-2-3           92.02
22-9.5-2-4           92.02
22-9.5-2-8           92.02
22-9.5-2-9           92.02
22-9.5-2-10          92.02
22-9.5-2-11          92.02
22-9.5-2-13          92.02
22-9.5-3             92.03,
                     92.09
22-9.5-4-8           92.10
22-9.5-5             92.02
22-9.5-5-1           92.03
22-9.5-6             92.02,
                     92.10
22-11-14             91.08
35-43-2-2            130.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)      10.99,
                     93.99
36-1-4-11            151.001
36-4-6-4(b)(4)       36.01
36-4-6-5             31.03
36-5-6-7             30.03
36-7-4 et seq.       31.05
                     150.01;
36-7-9               150.02;
                     150.03;
                     150.05
36-7-9-3             150.01
36-7-9-28            150.05
36-7-12-4            31.01
36-7-12-5(d)         31.01
36-7-14              31.06
36-7-25              31.06
36-8-3-20            30.02
36-9-16-2            33.04
36-9-16.5            33.04
36-9-23              56.21
36-9-23-28           50.17
36-9-23-32           56.20
36-9-23-35           56.20
36-9-36              93.41
36-10-3-21           33.04
36-10-4              31.04;
                     95.02
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
            - -         32.05
393          - -         TSO VI
2006-21      - -         TSO IV
247          3-13-1940   TSO II
285          6-12-1951   TSO III
286          7-10-1951   TSO III
348          11-22-1965  94.01
-            2-27-1967   TSO II
396          6-13-1972   32.04
479          6-29-1978   TSO III
480          6-29-1978   TSO III
80-2         2-28-1980   34.01
80-4         2-28-1980   150.02 
                         150.05
80-7         3-13-1980   31.04;
                         95.02
                         70.01;
80-6         3-27-1980   70.02;
                         70.99
80-11        3-27-1980   30.01
                         70.03;
80-12        3-27-1980   70.99;
                         Ch. 73, Sch. I
80-14        4-10-1980   52.02
80-21        8-14-1980   TSO VII
80-22        8-14-1980   30.02
81-2         3-10-1981   55.01
81-4         5-12-1981   50.18
81-16        9-8-1981    95.03
82-7         4-29-1982   TSO VII
82-4         5-11-1982   95.37
82-7A        5-18-1982   TSO I
82-8         5-18-1982   TSO I
82-15        8-10-1982   31.03
82-20        12-29-1982  TSO I
83-2         5-10-1983   95.37
83-4         7-12-1983   150.01
                         90.01 
84-3         4-9-1984    90.11;
                         90.99
84-6         5-14-1984   TSO IV
84-12        8-13-1984   TSO II
84-14        10-8-1984   50.16
88-10        9-12-1988   31.02
88-11        9-12-1988   32.03
88-12        9-12-1988   50.15
- -          6-12-1989   TSO VI
89-14        11-20-1989  34.02
90-1         1-8-1990    TSO V
90-11        8-13-1990   TSO VI
90-15        12-10-1990  33.03
91-2         2-11-1991   55.16
92-6         7-13-1992   32.02
92-7         7-27-1992   TSO V
93-3         7-12-1993   33.04
93-7         7-26-1993   50.01
94-7         10-5-1994   54.15
94-9         11-14-1994  51.01
95-1         1-9-1995    33.02;
                         95.01
                         71.01;
95-5         4-10-1995   71.99;
                         Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                         II
95-6         6-12-1995   55.15
95-8         7-10-1995   TSO V
95-12        9-11-1995   32.05
95-13        9-11-1995   33.02;
                         95.01
95-14        10-9-1995   110.01
95-15        10-9-1995   97.50
95-19        12-11-1995  95.01
96-2         2-12-1996   95.36
96-4         7-8-1996    54.01
96-8         8-12-1996   Ch. 73, Sch. II
97-3         9-8-1998    70.99
98-4         6-8-1998    TSO IV
98-5         6-8-1998    TSO IV
98-8         7-13-1998   TSO V
99-1         5-25-1999   31.01
99-6         8-19-1999   Ch. 73, Sch. I
00-3         1-10-2000   72.01
                         97.01 
00-4         3-1-2000    97.19;
                         97.99
00-5         5-8-2000    90.11
00-1         11-13-2000  95.21
00-14        12-11-2000  TSO IV
01-01        2-12-2001   95.21
01-04        5-21-2001   TSO I
01-05        5-21-2001   130.01
02-01        1-14-2002   Ch. 73, Sch. I
02-03        5-13-2002   TSO I
02-04        7-8-2002    33.01
02-05        7-23-2002   TSO I
02-06        7-23-2002   TSO I
04-01        2-9-2004    52.01
2004-03      6-14-2004   95.20
                         152.01 
2004-04      7-12-2004   152.04;
                         152.99
2004-05      7-12-2004   94.15;
                         97.99
2004-08      10-11-2004  95.35
                         152.01 
2004-11      12-13-2004  152.04,
                         152.99
2005-01      1-10-2005   94.17
                         91.01 
2005-03      3-14-2005   91.10;
                         91.99
2005-04      4-11-2005   96.01
2005-05      5-9-2005    Ch. 73, Sch. II
2005-06      5-9-2005    53.01
2005-16      11-14-2005  TSO VII
2005-17      11-14-2005  TSO VII
2005-18      12-12-2005  TSO III
2005-19      12-12-2006  TSO IV
2005-20      12-12-2005  32.01
2005-21      - -         TSO IV
2006-1       4-10-2006   96.01
2006-03      9-11-2006   TSO II
2006-04      9-11-2006   Ch. 151
2006-05      9-11-2006   70.04
                         111.01 
2006-06      9-11-2006   111.18;
                         111.99
2006-08      10-9-2006   TSO III
2006-09      10-9-2006   31.05
2006-10      11-13-2006  TSO IV
2006-11      11-13-2006  TSO IV
2006-12      11-13-2006  95.21
2006-13      11-13-2006  90.12;
                         90.99
2006-16      12-11-2006  TSO IV
2007-1       2-12-2007   95.04
2007-02      4-9-2007    TSO II
2007-003     6-11-2007   95.70
2007-05      7-9-2007    TSO I
2007-06      9-11-2007   TSO III
2007-08      11-13-2007  TSO III
2007-09      11-13-2007  TSO IV
2007-10      12-10-2007  TSO II
2007-11      12-10-2007  50.17
2007-13      12-10-2007  70.05
2008-01      3-10-2008   95.21
2008-02      4-14-2008   95.71
2008-03      4-14-2008   Adopting Ordinance
2008-04      6-9-2008    70.99;
                         71.99
2008-05      6-9-2008    70.06
2008-06      7-14-2008   32.01;
                         TSO III
2009-01      1-12-2009   98.01 
                         98.04
2009-02      1-12-2009   95.21
2009-03      1-12-2009   96.01
2009-04      2-9-2009    54.02
                         50.02;
                         50.14-
2009-05      2-9-2009    50.16;
                         50.19-
                         50.22
                         152.01;
2009-06      2-9-2009    152.02;
                         152.04;
                         152.99
2009-07      3-9-2009    TSO V
2009-08      4-13-2009   52.01
2009-11      9-14-2009   TSO IV
2009-12      10-12-2009  TSO III
2009-13      10-12-2009  TSO III
2009-16      12-14-2009  95.21
                         72.10 
2010-01      3-8-2010    72.19;
                         72.99
2010-02      4-12-2010   95.35
2010-03      4-12-2010   96.01
2010-05      6-14-2010   54.03
2010-06      10-11-2010  130.02;
                         130.99
2010-07      10-18-2010  TSO III
2010-08      10-18-2010  TSO III
2011-1       3-30-2011   95.35;
                         95.36
2011-02      5-9-2011    95.80
2011-03      9-12-2011   TSO III
2011-04      9-12-2011   TSO III
2011-05      9-12-2011   TSO V
2011-06      10-3-2011   TSO VII
2011-07      10-3-2011   TSO VII
2011-08      12-12-2011  53.01
2011-09      12-12-2011  55.15
2012-01      02-13-2012  TSO VII
2012-02      02-13-2012  95.21
2012-03      03-12-2012  72.13
2012-04      03-19-2012  TSO IV
2012-05      05-14-2012  94.17
2012-06      05-14-2012  150.01 
                         150.05
2012-07      05-14-2012  95.80
2012-08      06-11-2012  55.15
2012-09      06-11-2012  35.01
2012-10      06-11-2012  72.13
2012-11      06-11-2012  52.01
2012-12      06-11-2012  TSO III
2012-13      08-13-2012  36.01,
                         36.02
2012-16      12-10-2012  55.15
2012-17      11-13-2012  37.01
2012-21      12-10-2012  92.01 
                         92.11
2012-22      12-10-2012  TSO IV
2012-23      12-10-2012  35.01
2013-01      01-14-2013  38.01
2013-02      01-21-2013  53.02
2013-03      03-11-2013  95.80
2013-04      04-08-2013  30.03
2013-05      04-08-2013  95.72
2013-06      04-08-2013  95.71
2013-07      06-18-2013  33.04
2013-08      07-08-2013  53.03
2013-09      07-08-2013  95.72
2013-10      07-08-2013  97.30 
                         97.36
2013-11      08-12-2013  31.06
2013-12      09-09-2013  TSO III
2013-13      09-09-2013  TSO V
2013-14      09-09-2013  TSO III
2013-15      10-14-2013  TSO V
2013-16      11-12-2013  TSO V
2013-17      12-9-2013   53.01
2014-01      02-10-2014  TSO V
2014-02      02-13-2014  95.72
                         70.03,
2014-03      04-14-2014  70.04,
                         70.05,
                         70.99
2014-04      04-14-2014  70.99
2014-05      04-14-2014  94.17
2014-06      05-12-2014  52.01
2014-07      08-19-2014  TSO III
2014-09      10-13-2014  TSO IV
2014-10      10-13-2014  96.01
2014-11      11-10-2014  96.01
2014-13      12-08-2014  TSO III
2015-1       2-23-2015   95.72
2015-02      6-8-2015    33.04
2015-03      6-8-2015    TSO IV
2015-04      10-12-2015  TSO IV
2015-05      12-14-2015  TSO III
2015-06      12-14-2015  35.02
2016-1       2-8-2016    33.05
2016-02      3-14-2016   50.20
2016-03      4-11-2016   52.01
2016-04      6-13-2016   TSO IV
2016-05      7-11-2016   TSO IV
2016-06      7-11-2016   TSO IV
2016-07      9-19-2016   97.60,
                         97.61
                         152.01 
2016-08      12-12-2016  152.04,
                         152.99
2016-10      11-14-2016  33.06
2016-11      11-14-2016  TSO III
2016-12      12-12-2016  95.21
2017-02      3-13-2017   96.01,
                         Ch. 96, Add. A
2017-3       6-17-2017   35.01
                         56.01,
2017-4       7-10-2017   56.15 
                         56.21,
                         56.99
2017-06      11-13-2017  TSO III
2017-7       12-11-2017  TSO VII
2017-08      11-13-2017  95.35
Res. 2018-1  1-8-2018    TSO VII
Res. 2018-02 1-8-2018    TSO III
2018-1       2-12-2018   TSO V
2018-2       4-9-2018    TSO V
2018-3       8-13-2018   TSO VII
2018-4       10-9-2018   TSO IV
2018-05      10-9-2018   TSO III
Res. 18-3    11-13-2018  TSO I
2018-06      12-10-2018  TSO IV
Res. 2019-01 1-14-2019   TSO VII
Res. 2019-2  3-11-2019   TSO VII
Res. 2019-3  3-11-2019   TSO VII
2019-1       5-13-2019   97.99
2019-2       6-10-2019   52.03
2019-03      7-8-2019    TSO IV
2019-4       9-9-2019    TSO I
2019-5       10-15-2019  TSO IV
2019-06      10-15-2019  TSO III
Res. 2019-4  10-15-2019  TSO VII
Res. 2019-5  12-9-2019   TSO VII
Res. 2020-1  1-13-2020   TSO VII
                         152.01-
2020-1       1-13-2020   152.04,
                         152.99
Res. 2020-02 2-10-2020   TSO VII
2020-02      3-26-2020   TSO III
                         99.01-
2020-03      7-13-2020   99.03,
                         99.99
2020-04      7-27-2020   TSO V
2020-05      10-13-2020  TSO IV
2020-06      10-13-2020  TSO III
2020-07      11-9-2020   TSO IV
2020-08      12-14-2020  TSO III
2020-09      12-14-2020  96.01,
                         Ch. 96, Add. A
Res. 2021-01 1-11-2021   TSO VII
2021-01      3-8-2021    TSO II
Res. 2021-03 3-8-2021    TSO VII
2021-03      5-10-2021   TSO IV
Res. 2021-04 3-8-2021    TSO VII
2021-04      6-14-2021   54.03
2021-05      7-12-2021   TSO V
Res. 2021-06 4-21-2021   TSO IV
2021-06      10-12-2021  55.15
Res. 2021-07 5-10-2021   TSO VII
2021-07      10-12-2021  TSO IV
Res. 2021-08 5-10-2021   TSO VII
Res. 2021-09 6-14-2021   TSO VII
2021-09      12-13-2021  TSO III
Res. 2021-10 6-14-2021   TSO VII
Res. 2021-11 7-12-2021   TSO VII
Res. 2021-12 8-9-2021    TSO VII
Res. 2021-14 8-9-2021    TSO IV
Res. 2021-15 8-9-2021    TSO VII
Res. 2021-16 10-12-2021  TSO VII
Res. 2021-17 11-8-2021   TSO VII
Res. 2022-01 1-10-2022   TSO VII
Res. 2022-04 5-9-2022    TSO VII
2022-03      6-13-2022   53.01
                         151.001-
                         151.004,
                         151.015,
                         151.025-
2022-04      8-8-2022    151.032,
                         151.045-
                         151.050,
                         151.060-
                         151.063,
                         151.999
                         100.01-
                         100.03,
2022-05      8-8-2022    100.10,
                         100.20-100.23,
                         100.99
2022-06      10-11-2022  TSO III
                         93.01-
                         93.06,
                         93.20-
2022-07      11-14-2022  93.27,
                         93.40-
                         93.43,
                         93.99
2022-08      10-11-2022  TSO III
2022-09      10-20-2022  TSO IV
2022-10      11-14-2022  96.01,
                         Ch. 96, Add. A
Res. 2022-05 12-12-2022  TSO VII
Res. 2022-07 12-12-2022  TSO IV
Res. 2023-01 1-9-2023    TSO IV
Res. 2023-02 1-9-2023    TSO IV
Res. 2023-03 2-13-2023   TSO IV
2023-01      2-13-2023   95.21
Res. 2023-05 3-13-2023   TSO IV
Res. 2023-06 3-13-2023   TSO VII
Res. 2023-07 4-10-2023   TSO IV
Res. 2023-08 5-8-2023    TSO IV
2023-03      5-8-2023    95.80
2023-04      5-8-2023    TSO III 
Res. 2023-09 6-12-2023   TSO VII
Res. 2023-10 7-10-2023   TSO VII
Res. 2023-11 7-5-2023    TSO VII
Res. 2023-12 9-11-2023   TSO IV
Res. 2023-13 9-11-2023   TSO IV
Res. 2023-14 10-10-2023  TSO IV
2023-05      10-10-2023  TSO IV
2023-06      10-26-2023  TSO III
Res. 2023-15 11-13-2023  TSO IV
Res. 2023-16 12-11-2023  TSO IV
Res. 2023-17 12-11-2023  TSO IV
Res. 2023-18 12-11-2023  TSO IV
Res. 2023-19 12-11-2023  TSO IV
2023-07      12-11-2023  95.01
Res. 2024-01 1-8-2024    TSO IV
Res. 2024-02 1-8-2024    TSO IV
2024-01      1-8-2024    TSO IV
2024-02      1-8-2024    TSO IV
2024-03      2-12-2024   151.045
2024-04      4-9-2024    95.21
2024-05      4-9-2024    TSO IV
Res. 2024-04 5-13-2024   TSO VII
2024-06      5-13-2024   TSO V
2024-07      6-10-2024   TSO III
2024-08      6-10-2024   TSO III
Res. 2024-05 7-8-2024    TSO IV
Res. 2024-06 8-12-2024   TSO IV
Res. 2024-07 8-12-2024   TSO VII
Res. 2024-08 9-9-2024    TSO VII
2024-09      10-15-2024  TSO IV
Res. 2024-09 10-15-2024  TSO IV
Res. 2024-10 10-15-2024  TSO IV
2024-10      12-9-2024   TSO III
2024-11      11-12-2024  TSO V
Res. 2024-11 12-9-2024   TSO IV
Res. 2024-12 12-9-2024   TSO IV
Res. 2024-13 12-9-2024   TSO IV
Res. 2024-14 12-9-2024   TSO IV
2024-12      12-9-2024   TSO III
2024-13      12-9-2024   96.01,
                         Ch. 96, Add. A
2024-15      1-13-2025   52.01
2025-01      4-14-2025   151.045
2025-02      5-12-2025   95.80
                        
 
