LYNNVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-10, passed 8-20-2024; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2025 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 1
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
 
David Goldenberg Town Council President
Doris Horn       Town Council Member
Rachel Titzer    Town Council Member
Lauri Stockus    Clerk-Treasurer
Chris Wischer    Town Attorney
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance #2020-7
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF LYNNVILLE, INDIANA
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, I.C. 36-1-5 empowers and authorizes the Town of Lynnville to revise,
amend, restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate such
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Lynnville has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
Lynnville of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance
in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the Town
of Lynnville and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the Town of Lynnville that this ordinance take
effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF LYNNVILLE,
INDIANA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Lynnville as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Lynnville, Indiana.
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   LYNNVILLE, INDIANA
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.   General Provisions
   11.   Corporate Boundaries
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.   General Provisions
   31.   Town Council
   32.   Town Officials
   33.   Town Organizations
   34.   Fire Department
   35.   Finance
   36.   Ordinance Violations Bureau
   37.   Town Policies
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50.   General Provisions
   51.   Water
   52.   Sewer
   53.   Wastewater
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   70.   General Provisions
   71.   Traffic Regulations
   72.   Parking Regulations
   73.   Recreational Vehicles
   74.   Traffic Schedules
   75.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.   Abandoned Vehicles
   91.   Animals
   92.   Nuisances
   93.   Street and Sidewalks
   94.   Park and Recreation
   95.   Fair Housing
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110.   General Licensing Provisions
   111.   Peddlers and Solicitors
   112.   Coal Mining
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   130.   Weapons
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150.   Building Regulations
   151.   Floods
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   I.   Annexations
   II.   Real Property Transactions
   III.   Franchises
   IV.   Agreements
   V.   Zoning
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Indiana Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and preordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of Lynnville is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in any legal proceeding of all
provisions of such Code, of the adoption of such Code, that the same is
properly signed, attested, recorded, and approved, and that any public hearings
and notices thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the Town of Lynnville, Indiana, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Lynnville, Indiana on
this 14th DAY OF JULY, 2020.
Stacy Tevault /s/
Stacy Tevault, Town Council President
Rachel Titzer /s/
Rachel Titzer, Town Council Member
Doris Horn /s/
Doris Horn, Town Council Member
 
   Attest:
   Lauri Stockus /s/
   Lauri Stockus, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town Code of
Lynnville, Indiana”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Lynnville, Indiana.
      COUNTY. The County of Warrick, State of Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any division prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Corporate boundaries
§ 11.01 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The entire corporate boundaries of the town are hereby defined and declared
to be as follows:
Beginning at the northwest corner of the southwest quarter of section thirty
four (34) township three (3) south range eight (8) west; thence running east to
the northeast corner of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of said
section; thence running south along the quarter quarter line to a point seven
hundred twenty six (726) feet north of the south line of the section; thence
east four hundred fifty (450) feet more or less to the west bank of a stream;
thence southerly with the bank of said stream to a point three hundred fifty
(350) feet southeasterly and at right angles to Indiana State Road 68; thence
southwesterly and parallel to said State Road 68, two thousand two hundred
(2,200) feet more or less to intersect with the south line of fractional
section four (4) township four (4), south range eight (8) west; thence running
west along the section lines to a point five hundred thirteen and three tenths
(513.3) feet west of the southeast corner of fractional section six (6); thence
northwesterly one thousand one hundred forty two (1,142) feet more or less to a
point that is seven hundred eighty (780) feet north of the southeast corner of
the east half of the southeast quarter of said section; thence north forty six
(46) degrees fifteen (15) minutes west two hundred sixty eight (268) feet;
thence north twenty two (22) degrees zero (0) minutes west one thousand seventy
(1,070) feet; thence north six hundred eighty six (686) feet; thence
northwesterly four hundred thirty five (435) feet to a point on the north line
of fractional section six (6) that is eight hundred twenty (820) feet west of
the northeast corner of the west half of the northeast quarter of said section;
thence east to the southeast corner of section thirty two (32) township three
(3) south range eight (8) west; thence north along the section line nine
hundred ninety (990) feet; thence east one thousand three hundred twenty
(1,320) feet; thence north three hundred thirty (330) feet more or less to the
north line of the south half of the southwest quarter of section thirty three
(33) township three (3) south range eight (8) west; thence east along the
quarter quarter line to a point two hundred eight and seven tenths (208.7) feet
west of the east line of section thirty three (33); thence north and parallel
to the east line of section thirty three (33), nine hundred ninety one and
fourteen hundredths (991.14) feet; thence east two hundred eight and seven
tenths (208.7) feet to the east line of the section; thence north to the
northwest corner of the southwest quarter of section thirty four (34) and the
beginning point of this description.
(Ord. 167A, passed 8-28-1967; Ord. 167B, passed 9-23-1969)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   FINANCE
      
36.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
37.   TOWN POLICIES
      38.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.02   Internal control standards
Town Elections
   
30.15   Primary election
   
30.16   Coordinating town election with county general election
   
30.17   Manner of election of members of the Town Council
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
§ 30.02 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The State Board of Accounts under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) have defined the
acceptable minimum level of internal control standards for internal control
systems of political subdivisions, including: control environment risk
assessment; control activities; information and communication; and monitoring.
All political subdivisions, subject to audit by State Board of Accounts (SBOA),
are expected to adhere to these standards, and will be evaluated accordingly in
any audits that are performed by or on behalf of the SBOA, and a Town Council
member will check and sign off on each month’s bank statement and
reconcilement.
   (B)   The acceptable minimum level internal control standards as established
by I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) is hereby adopted by the town and that all town personnel
will receive training concerning the internal control standards and procedures.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 10-18-2016)
TOWN ELECTIONS
§ 30.15 PRIMARY ELECTION.
   Candidates for town offices shall be nominated by a primary election.
(Ord. 2006-17, passed 12-18-2006)
§ 30.16 COORDINATING TOWN ELECTION WITH COUNTY GENERAL ELECTION.
   The municipal elections for town offices shall be held during a general
election.
(Ord. 2006-18, passed 12-18-2006)
§ 30.17 MANNER OF ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The town has, for many years, held elections for the members of the
Town Council by requiring candidates to run from the specific district in which
they reside, but are elected by the voters of the whole town.
   (B)   District boundaries were determined in an ordinance passed and
approved by the Town Council in special session on February 12, 1901.
   (C)   Town Council minutes and ordinances for the town were destroyed by
wind and water, for the period from prior to 1960 to January 1, 1960, and
cannot be reconstructed.
   (D)   Any prior ordinances of the town, which provided for the manner of
election of members of the Town Council, are hereby ratified and members of the
Town Council shall continue to run from the specific district in which they
reside and be elected by the voters of the whole town.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 3-4-2014)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.015   Open meetings
   
31.016   Executive sessions
   
31.017   Notice of meetings
   
31.018   Agenda
   
31.019   Record of meetings
   
31.020   Quorum
   
31.021   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.035   Presiding officer
   
31.036   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.037   Absence of President
   
31.038   Duties of the President
   
31.039   Duties of Council members
   
31.040   Seconding of motions required
   
31.041   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.042   Division of questions
   
31.043   Record of motions
   
31.044   Vote
   
31.045   Precedence of motion
   
31.046   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.047   Motion to adjourn
   
31.048   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.049   Motion to amend
   
31.050   Amendments
   
31.051   Reconsideration
   
31.052   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.053   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.054   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.055   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.070   Majority vote; when required
   
31.071   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.072   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.073   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g),
the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at
12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.015 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.016 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.   Collective bargaining, which does not include a discussion or
meeting under I.C. 20-29-6-7;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this division (B)
(2), LITIGATION includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding
under federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.   A real property transaction including any of the following, by
the Town Council, up to the time a contract or option is executed by the
parties. This clause does not affect the Town Council’s duty to comply with any
other statute that governs the conduct of the real property transaction,
including I.C. 36-1-10 or I.C. 36-1-11:
               a.   A purchase;
               b.   A lease as lessor;
               c.   A lease as lessee;
               d.   A transfer;
               e.   An exchange; or
               f.   A sale.
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   (a)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial
prospects or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
            1.   The Indiana Economic Development Corporation;
            2.   The Office of Tourism Development (before July 1, 2020) or the
Indiana Destination Development Corporation (after June 30, 2020);
            3.   The Indiana Finance Authority;
            4.   The ports of Indiana;
            5.   An Economic Development Commission;
            6.   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
            7.   The Indiana White River State Park Development Commission;
            8.   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in Indiana, the retention or expansion of
Indiana business, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in Indiana;
or
            9.   A governing body of a political subdivision.
         (b)   However this subdivision does not apply to any discussions
regarding research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other
law.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train School Board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism; and
      (14)   To train members of a Board of Aviation Commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A Board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division (B)(14).
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §
31.019 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given. The Town Council shall certify by
a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no subject
matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject matter
specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.017 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
§ 31.018 AGENDA.
   (A)   To be placed on the agenda, notice shall be given to the Town Council
President six days before the meeting. The Council shall determine the amount
of business to be allowed on the agenda for a given meeting. The agenda shall
be displayed on the meeting room door and the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall post the agenda.
   (B)   Emergency business may be allowed at the meeting if the Town Council
determines it is necessary and by a majority vote.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 10-5-2004)
§ 31.019 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 or any other statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a
meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.020 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.021 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.035 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
Cross-reference:
   Election of Council President, see §
31.004
§ 31.036 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.037 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
Temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.038 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.039 DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.040 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.041 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.042 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.043 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.044 VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by “Ayes” and “Nays,” all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “Aye” or “Nay”, as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay”.
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
§ 31.045 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.046 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.047 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.048 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.049 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.050 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council.
   (B)   The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed.
   (C)   Finally, a vote shall be taken on the principal motion as finally
amended.
§ 31.051 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.052 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.053 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting.
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.054 ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.055 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.070 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of abstentions, see §
31.044
§ 31.071 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.072 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if the town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division (C), it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division (C), if authorized by the
Town Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F) below) does not apply to a
zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving
a comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) below, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F) above.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) above does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) above apply only if the
municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice that
the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (F) above as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4 or
I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.073 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   (1)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council
is adopted, the Clerk- Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that
purpose.
      (2)   The record must include:
         (a)   The signature of the President of Council;
         (b)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
         (c)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Vacancy in office
   
32.07   Payment of certain bills
   
32.08   Depository for town funds
   
32.09   Authorizing electronic fund transfers
Town Marshal
   
32.20   Appointment; compensation
   
32.21   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.24   Deputy marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.25   Body armor
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Article 6, § 6.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-Treasurer ceases to
be a resident of the town.
   (C)   An individual who resides in territory that is annexed by the town
before the election is considered a resident of the town for purposes of this
section, even if the annexation took effect less than one year before the
election.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6.5, the Clerk-Treasurer is both the
Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   This section does not apply to a town that has adopted an ordinance
under I.C. 36-5-6.5.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
   (C)   If the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to perform the fiscal requirements of
the Clerk-Treasurer's position, the town shall hire or contract with a
qualified certified public accountant to:
      (1)   Provide guidance to the Clerk-Treasurer regarding the performance
of the Clerk-Treasurer's responsibilities; or
      (2)   Perform the Clerk-Treasurer's fiscal responsibilities.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer is considered to be unable to perform the
fiscal requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer's position if the town is declared
unauditable under I.C. 5-11-1-9(b).
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (D) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk- Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies if the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is vacant
and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Council member, who shall assume
the duties of the office of Clerk-Treasurer. For purposes of Indiana
Constitution Article 2, § 9 and state law, if a Town Council member serves as
the ex officio Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Council member:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Council member; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office. A Town Council member may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council may either:
      (1)   Enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-1-7 with the Town
Clerk- Treasurer and Town Council of another town in the state to assist the
Town Council member selected under division (B) above in performing the duties
of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, provided that the agreement may not last
longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term and must meet
the requirements of I.C. 36-1-7; or
      (2)   Enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the Town Council member selected under division (B) above in performing the
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, provided that the contract may not last
longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term.
   (D)   If, after reasonable diligence, the town is unable to meet the
requirements under division (C), the town may hire any qualified person to
perform the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer's office until the vacancy can be
filled under I.C. 3-13-9-3, or until the end of the current Clerk-Treasurer's
term, whichever is first.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
§ 32.07 PAYMENT OF CERTAIN BILLS.
   The following expenses and liabilities of the town, town water utility and
the town sewer utility shall be paid by the Clerk-Treasurer of the town:
   (A)   Insurance premiums;
   (B)   Rental deposit fees;
   (C)   Utility bills;
   (D)   Federal and state taxes;
   (F)   Bond and interest payments;
   (G)   Debt service payments;
   (H)   Emergency repair approved by poll of two Council members;
   (I)   Postage for postage meter;
   (J)   Salaries;
   (K)   Wages up to 40 hours (no overtime);
   (L)   Water utility meter deposit refunds;
   (M)   Town park utility bills, insurance;
   (N)   Town Community Center utility bills, and refunds for security
deposits; and
   (O)   Credit card payments
(Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-20-2002; Ord. 2006-19, passed 12-18-2006)
§ 32.08 DEPOSITORY FOR TOWN FUNDS.
   The Town Council designates the Lynnville National Bank for the depository
for the funds of the town, water utility, sewer utility and the Community
Center Building Fund.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 6-25-2001)
§ 32.09 ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer, in her discretion, is hereby authorized to make
automated clearing house (ACH) payments, electronically, for and on behalf of
the town and to receive ACH payments directed to the town or its various
departments or utilities. All ACH payments properly made or received by or at
the direction of the Clerk-Treasurer, prior to the adoption of this section,
are hereby ratified and approved.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer, in her discretion, is hereby authorized to make
online (electronic) transfers of town funds to the extent those funds may
otherwise be transferred under and pursuant to all applicable rules and
regulations. All online transfers of town funds properly made by or at the
direction of the Clerk-Treasurer, prior to the adoption of this section, are
hereby ratified and approved.
(Res. 2023-5, passed 5-16-2023)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.20 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.21 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for municipal fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.22 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction and detain
them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.23 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department, or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.24 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A) The Town Council shall by ordinance fix the number of deputy marshals.
The Town Council may by ordinance authorize the Town Marshal to appoint deputy
marshals. Deputy marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Town Marshal
in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One deputy marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. He or
she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation and term
of service of deputy marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a deputy marshal at
any time. However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.25 BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After December 31, 2010, a town shall provide the Town Marshal and
active deputy marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active deputy marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Area Plan Commission
Department of Parks and Recreation
   
33.15   Creation of Department of Parks and Recreation
   
33.16   Name, creation of Park and Recreation Board, appointment of Board
members
   
33.17   Removal of a member
   
33.18   Regular and special meetings; election of officers; quorum
   
33.19   Compensation
   
33.20   Superintendent of Park and Recreation; appointments; qualifications;
duties; Assistant Superintendents
   
33.21   Officer and employee bonds
   
33.22   Powers, duties, rights and obligations
   
33.23   Conduct of business
   
33.25   Transfer of papers
   
33.26   Amendments
Department of Redevelopment
   
33.40   Establishment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The town desires, with other local units of government, to
cooperatively improve the health, safety, convenience and the welfare of its
citizens and to plan for the future development of the county area of which the
town is a part, to the end that highway systems be more carefully planned, that
new communities grow only with adequate street, utility, health, educational
and recreational facilities; that the needs of agriculture, industry and
business be recognized in future growth; that residential areas provide healthy
surroundings for family life; and that the growth of the community is
commensurate with and promotive of the efficient and economical uses of public
funds.
   (B)   The town hereby adopts and accepts the provisions of Chapter 138, Acts
of 1957 of the Indiana General Assembly and all acts amendatory thereof and
supplemental thereto.
   (C)   The Town Council shall select one of its members as its representative
on the Advisory Council on Town Affairs and each year thereafter a
representative shall be selected in like manner for a term of one year, which
term shall terminate at the end of each year, as is provided by law.
(Ord. 3, passed 12-3-1962)
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 33.15 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   There is hereby created, pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq., a Department of
Parks and Recreation, which shall consist of a Park and Recreation Board, a
Superintendent and other personnel as the Board shall determine.
(Ord. 3-2-87, passed - -1987)
§ 33.16 NAME, CREATION OF PARK AND RECREATION BOARD, APPOINTMENT OF BOARD
MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Park and Recreation Board hereby created shall be known as the
Town Park and Recreation Board, and shall consist of four members, to be
appointed by the Town Council. The members shall be appointed on the basis of
their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation, but no more than two
members may be affiliated with the same political party.
   (B)   Initial appointments to the Board are as follows:
      (1)   One member for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member for a term of two years;
      (3)   One member for a term of three years; and
      (4)   One member for a term of four years.
   (C)   As a term expires, each new appointment is for a four-year term. All
terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a if a vacancy occurs on the
Board, a person shall be appointed to serve for the remainder of the unexpired
term.
(Ord. 3-2-87, passed - -1987)
§ 33.17 REMOVAL OF A MEMBER.
   A member may not be removed except for cause, upon specific written charges
filed against him or her. The charges shall be filed with the head of the
appointing authority, unless the appointing authority is bringing the charges.
If the appointing authority is bringing the charges, it shall appoint a hearing
officer. The person to hear the charges shall fix a date for a public hearing
and give public notice at least ten days in advance of the hearing. At the
hearing, a member is entitled to present evidence and argument and to be
represented by counsel.
(Ord. 3-2-87, passed - -1987)
§ 33.18 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS; ELECTION OF OFFICERS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The meetings of the Board are open to the public. The Board shall fix
the time and place for its regular meeting, which shall be held in a public
place, and shall meet at least quarterly. Special meetings shall be called, and
notice given, as provided for in I.C. 36-10-3-8, with election of officers to
take place as provided for therein.
   (B)   A majority of the members constitute a quorum. Action of the Board is
not final unless it is authorized by at least three members present and acting.
(Ord. 3-2-87, passed - -1987)
§ 33.19 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The members of the Park and Recreation Board may receive a salary not
to exceed $1,900 per year.
   (B)   If the Board determines that members or employees should attend a
state, regional or national conference dealing with park and recreation
problems, it may authorize the payment of the actual expenses involved in
attending the conference. However, the amount must be available as a part of
the Board’s appropriation.
   (C)   Compensation for the Park Authority members and Park Advisors shall be
paid one per quarter.
(Ord. 3-2-87, passed - -1987; Ord. passed 2020-1, passed 12-17-2019; Ord. 2020-
2, passed 1-7-2020)
§ 33.20 SUPERINTENDENT OF PARK AND RECREATION; APPOINTMENTS; QUALIFICATIONS;
DUTIES; ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENTS.
   (A)   The Board may appoint a Superintendent of Parks and Recreation. The
Board may not consider political affiliation in the selection of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   The Superintendent must:
      (1)   Be qualified by training or experience in the field of parks and
recreation; or
      (2)   Have a certification or an advanced degree in the field of parks
and recreation.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall have the duties as set forth in I.C. 36-10-3-
14.
   (D)   Assistants to the Superintendent may be appointed in accordance with
I.C. 36-10-3-15, and shall have the duties and qualifications as provided for
therein.
(Ord. 3-2-87, passed - -1987)
§ 33.21 OFFICER AND EMPLOYEE BONDS.
   (A)   Each officer and employee who handles money in the performance of his
or her duties as prescribed by this subchapter and by I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq.
shall execute an official bond for the term of his or her office or employment
before entering upon the duties of his or her office or employment.
   (B)   If his or her tenure is indeterminate, then the bond must be for a
term of one year and renewed each year as the employment continues.
(Ord. 3-2-87, passed - -1987)
§ 33.22 POWERS, DUTIES, RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS.
   The Board shall have all duties, powers, rights and obligations, and shall
conduct and organize its business, as provided for in I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq.
and as provided for herein.
(Ord. 3-2-87, passed - -1987)
§ 33.23 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   The Board shall be organized, conduct and transact its business, as
specifically provided for herein, and in accordance with I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 3-2-87, passed - -1987)
§ 33.25 TRANSFER OF PAPERS.
   Upon appointment of the members of the Board, in accordance with this
subchapter, all books, papers, documents and other property of the former parks
and recreation authorities shall be transferred to and become the property of
the Board.
(Ord. 3-2-87, passed - -1987)
§ 33.26 AMENDMENTS.
   Should I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq. be amended, then this subchapter shall be
considered amended in accordance therewith, without the necessity for further
action by the Town Council.
(Ord. 3-2-87, passed - -1987)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT
§ 33.40 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Town of Lynnville Department of Redevelopment (the “Department”),
controlled by a board of five members, who must be residents of the town, to be
known as the “Town of Lynnville Redevelopment Commission” (the “Commission”),
is hereby created, and established.
   (B)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-14-6.1(a) of the Redevelopment Commission
Act, three members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Town Council
President and two members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Town
Council. The Town Council President shall also appoint an individual as a
nonvoting advisor to the Redevelopment Commission in accordance with I.C. 36-7-
14-6.1(d).
   (C)   The Department shall be governed by the Redevelopment Commission Act,
and the Commission shall have the power and authority to do and perform all
things now and hereafter granted to it by the Redevelopment Commission Act.
   (D)   All the territory within the corporate boundaries of the town shall
constitute a taxing district for the purpose of levying and collecting special
benefit taxes as provided in the Redevelopment Commission Act.
   (E)   A redevelopment authority, designated as the “Town of Lynnville
Redevelopment Authority” (the “Authority”), controlled by a board of three
members, is hereby created and established for the purposes and with all
rights, powers, privileges, and immunities now or hereafter granted to it by
law, as a separate body corporate and politic and as an instrumentality of the
town.
   (F)   In accordance with Section 8 of the Redevelopment Authority Act, the
three board members, who must be residents of the own, shall be appointed by
the Town Council President.
(Ord. 2023-7, passed 6-20-2023)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Lynnville-Hart Township Fire Protection Territory
   
34.01   Established
   
34.02   Advisory board established
By-Laws
   
34.15   Name
   
34.16   Purpose
   
34.17   General policy
   
34.18   Membership
   
34.19   Member duties and responsibilities
   
34.20   Meetings
   
34.21   Officers of the Department   
   
34.22   Election of officers
   
34.23   Amendment to Department by-laws
LYNNVILLE-HART TOWNSHIP FIRE PROTECTION TERRITORY
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby joins together with the Trustee and the
Township Board of Hart Township under the provisions of I.C. 36-8-19 to
establish a fire protection territory.
   (B)   The area constituting the fire protection territory shall include the
entire areas of the Town of Lynnville and Hart Township.
   (C)   The provider unit shall be the Town of Lynnville.
   (D)   The participating units shall be the Town of Lynnville and Hart
Township.
   (E)   Upon the adoption of this section, the participating units agree that
the property tax rates imposed on all taxable properly in the town and Hart
Township shall be at a uniform tax rate for both participating units.
   (F)   The agreement to establish the fire protection territory shall include
the creation of a Fire Protection Territory Fund by the town from which all
expenses of operating and maintaining the fire protection services within the
territory, including repairs, fees, salaries, depreciation on all depreciable
assets, rents, supplies, contingencies and other expenses lawfully incurred
within the territory shall be paid. The money in the Fund may be used to repay
any advances made by the town to the Fund or to transfers to the Equipment
Replacement Fund.
   (G)   The budget for the Fire Protection Fund shall be approved by the Town
Council, following review and recommendation by the Trustee and Township Board.
The budget shall be set in an amount sufficient to meet the expenses of
operation and maintenance of fire protection services within the territory and
to maintain an appropriate operating reserve. After adoption of the fire
protection budget, the participating units shall establish the levy required to
fund the budget as estimated by the provider unit subject only to applicable
tax levy controls.
   (H)   The agreement to establish the fire protection territory shall include
the establishment of an Equipment Replacement Fund, to be used to purchase fire
protection equipment, including housing. The participating units agree to
impose a uniform property tax of $0.0333 per hundred dollars of assessed
valuation to provide for the accumulation of money in the Fund to purchase fire
protection equipment; to allow the incurrence of debt to purchase fire
protection equipment and impose a property tax to retire the loan; and/or to
allow the transfer of an amount from the Fire Protection Territory Fund to the
Fire Equipment Replacement Fund not to exceed 5% of the levy for the Fire
Protection Territory Fund for that year.
   (I)   The agreement shall also authorize the participating units to do any
and all acts provided under the provisions of I.C. 36-8-19.
(Res. 2007-03, passed 2-6-2007; Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-6-2007)
§ 34.02 ADVISORY BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   An advisory board shall be formed to advise the fire protection
territory as to any issues which may arise concerning fire protection in the
town and township, to include, without limitation, the expenses of operating
and maintaining fire protection services within the territory, including
repairs, fees, salaries, rents, supplies, contingencies, purchase of new
equipment and other lawful expenses incurred or to be incurred within the
territory.
   (B)   The advisory board shall be known as the Fire Protection Advisory
Board.
   (C)   The advisory board shall consist of five members who shall each be
appointed for a term of two years and shall serve until the expiration of their
term. One member of the Board shall be appointed by the Lynnville Volunteer
Fire Department, one member shall be appointed by the Township Trustee and
three members shall be appointed by the Town Council.
   (D)   If the town or township request advice on issues concerning the fire
protection territory, those issues shall be submitted to the Fire Protection
Advisory Board in writing. The Fire Protection Advisory Board shall meet at
such time and place as it may set, but not later than 14 days after the
submission of the issues, to formulate its advice. The Fire Protection Advisory
Board shall follow Robert’s Rules of Order in the conduct of its meeting. The
Fire Protection Advisory Board shall, after formulating its response to the
issue presented, submit to the town and township its written advice concerning
those issues. In the alternative, any or all of its members, or its
representative, may attend a regular meeting of the Town Council to deliver the
advice of the Fire Protection Advisory Board to the town and township.
   (E)   The advisory board has no power to implement its advice and is formed
for the sole purpose of providing advice to the fire protection territory.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 2-7-2017)
BY-LAWS
§ 34.15 NAME.
   The name of this organization will be the Lynnville Volunteer Fire
Department, Inc. hereafter referred to in this subchapter as the “Department”.
(By-laws, revised 3-24-2010)
§ 34.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this organization is to provide fire protection and aid in
other emergencies for the area of Lynnville and Hart Township. We will also aid
other Departments in Warrick, Pike and Gibson Counties on a mutual aid basis as
requested by these Departments. The Department also has a contract with Lane
Township to provide fire protection for that area.
(By-laws, revised 3-24-2010)
§ 34.17 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   The Department shall be a self-governing body on the following
matters:
      (1)   Rules of eligibility for membership;
      (2)   Election of officers;
      (3)   Rules of conduct for its members and monthly meetings; and
      (4)   Expenditure of its funds for equipment and supplies necessary for
the operation of the Department.
   (B)   The Department shall comply with and operate according to all state
statutes and codes regulating volunteer fire departments.
(By-laws, revised 3-24-2010)
§ 34.18 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Department shall consist of not more than 30 active members. The
Department may also have inactive, honorary and associate members who will be
non-voting and will not participate in any emergency duties.
   (B)   A person must be at least 21 years of age to become an active member.
   (C)   A member must live in Hart Township.
   (D)   Membership is not transferable.
   (E)   An application for membership shall be submitted in writing to any
active member of the Department. The applicant shall appear in person before
the membership at the next available opportunity to answer questions or
concerns the members might have. The applicant shall leave the room while a
secret ballot is taken. If accepted, the applicant will become a probationary
member.
   (F)   The probationary period will be one year from the date the application
is accepted. The probationary member must comply with the following provisions:
      (1)   Complete mandatory 24-hour class;
      (2)   Attend all scheduled meetings and training sessions;
      (3)   Assist in all scheduled work sessions;
      (4)   Receive instruction from a training officer pertaining to the
organization; i.e., history, activities, equipment and basic firefighting
policies. A probationary member shall not take the seat of any active member on
any fire or emergency run and shall not drive any Fire Department vehicle
except during training or work details;
      (5)   Provide own transportation to emergency scene for non-hazardous
duty only; and
      (6)   Division (F)(4) above can be waived at the Chief’s request for a
particular piece of equipment if the probationary member passes a check list
test on that piece of equipment.
   (G)   At the end of the probationary period, the member’s record will be
reviewed and a secret ballot will be taken to accept him or her into the
Department or to dismiss him or her from the Department.
(By-laws, revised 3-24-2010)
§ 34.19 MEMBER DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Member duties and responsibilities are:
      (1)   Attend regularly scheduled business and training meetings;
      (2)   Report to station when notified of fire or emergency run;
      (3)   Participate in fundraisers voted upon by the Department;
      (4)   Be capable of operating each piece of firefighting equipment in an
efficient and safe manner; and
      (5)   Conduct himself or herself in a manner that does not discredit
either himself or herself or the Department. Members should pay special
attention to the duties in this division (A)(5) during meetings, fundraisers
and at fire and emergency scenes.
   (B)   Members will be required to complete the state mandated training
programs by June 1 of each year. Failure to complete said training will move
the member to inactive status until training is completed.
   (C)   Members will be required to attend at least 20% of regularly scheduled
meetings and respond to at least 20% of all fire and emergency calls. Regular
work schedules, illness and death in the immediate family would be the only
excusable absences. Failure to participate in these activities at the required
percentage will automatically move the member to the inactive status effective
November 15. Members on inactive status are not eligible for the clothing and
travel allowance.
   (H)   Members will use the Department, its equipment and supplies for
Department-related functions only and not for personal activities.
(By-laws, revised 3-24-2010)
§ 34.20 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regularly scheduled meetings will be the second Monday night of each
month starting at 6:00 p.m. local time and the fourth Monday of each month
starting at 6:00 p.m. local time.
   (B)   Special meetings can be called at any time at the discretion of the
Chief.
   (C)   There will be no set quorum for the transaction of business. Business
will be considered transacted when a majority of the voting members present
vote in favor of or against an item brought before the membership.
   (D)   An officer must be present at all meetings before business can be
conducted.
   (E)   All meetings shall be conducted under Robert’s Rules of Order.
   (F)   Active members who are not probationary members are eligible to vote.
Honorary and associate members are not voting members.
   (G)   Ties in all votes will be broken by the Chief.
(By-laws, revised 3-24-2010)
§ 34.21 OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Officers of the Department shall be elected from members in good
standing. Their term of office will be for one year starting with the first
meeting in January of each year.
   (B)   Elected officers and their duties are as follows.
      (1)   Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall be the chief executive officer of
the Department and responsible for the day to day operation including adequacy
of equipment and supplies, assigning responsibilities, delegating authority and
directing officers and members in the performance of their duties. The Chief is
also responsible for appointing the four captains, training officer and for
assigning duties to these positions as the Chief sees fit for the efficient
operation of the Department.
      (2)   First Assistant Chief. The First Assistant Chief shall assist the
Chief in the above-mentioned duties and any other duties that the Chief may
direct and in the absence of the Chief will assume all the powers and duties of
the Chief.
      (3)   Second Assistant Chief. The Second Assistant Chief shall assist the
Chief in the above- mentioned duties and any other duties that the Chief may
direct and in the absence of the Chief and First Assistant Chief will assume
all the powers and duties of the Chief.
      (4)   Secretary. The Secretary shall have the custody and care of the
records and minutes of the Department; shall keep or cause to be kept in a book
for that purpose, a true and complete record of the Departments meetings; and
handle other paperwork as required.
      (5)   Treasurer. The Treasurer shall keep complete records of the
Department’s bank accounts and will be the legal custodian of all money that
may from time to time come into possession of the Department and deposit said
funds into the Department’s bank accounts as quickly as possible.
(By-laws, revised 3-24-2010)
§ 34.22 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Candidates for the elected offices will be nominated at the first
meeting in November.
   (B)   A ballot will be prepared and the election will be held by secret
ballot the first meeting in December.
   (C)   In case of a tie in any election, the balloting will continue until
one nominee receives a majority of the votes cast.
(By-laws, revised 3-24-2010)
§ 34.23 AMENDMENT TO DEPARTMENT BY-LAWS.
   (A)   These by-laws may be amended by a majority vote of the members present
at the meeting at the time the vote is taken.
   (B)   The proposed change or changes will be read aloud at two consecutive
monthly business meetings prior to the vote being taken.
   (C)   Adopted changes will take effect at the next regularly scheduled
business meeting.
   (D)   Revised by-laws will be printed and distributed to all members of the
Department.
(By-laws, revised 3-24-2010)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
35.01   Appropriation required
   
35.02   Issue of warrants
   
35.03   Allowance of claims
   
35.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
35.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
35.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
35.07   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
35.20   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
35.21   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
35.22   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
Fixed Asset Capitalization Policy
   
35.35   Definitions and provisions
   
35.36   Recording and accounting
   
35.37   Safeguarding of assets
   
35.38   Capital assets
County Option Income Tax
   
35.50   County option income tax
Funds
   
35.65   Rainy Day Fund
   
35.66   Firefighting Fund
   
35.67   Tecumseh School line agreement
   
35.68   Playground Equipment Fund
   
35.69   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
35.70   Public Safety LIT Fund
   
35.71   Tecumseh Trail Maintenance and Donation Fund
   
35.72   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
35.73   Opioid settlement funds
Town Credit Card
   
35.80   Town credit card
Capital Asset Policy
   
35.85   Capitalization threshold
   
35.86   Estimated useful lives of depreciable assets
   
35.87   Depreciation method and convention
 
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 35.01 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 35.02 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 35.03 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
35.06, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 35.04 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
35.06, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the town fiscal officer;
      (3)   Certified by the fiscal officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the fiscal officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 35.05 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 35.06 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the
expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12)
§ 35.07 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 35.20 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following
manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates;
   (B)   The Town Fiscal Officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments;
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
fiscal officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the fiscal officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation of officials and employees, see §
30.01
§ 35.21 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The town fiscal officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the fiscal officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 35.22 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 35.35 DEFINITIONS AND PROVISIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDINGS.
      (1)   The town will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roofs, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting or sprinkler systems, or any part
of the BASIC BUILDING. The department will include the cost of items designed
or purchased exclusively for the BUILDING.
      (2)   A new BUILDING will be capitalized only if it meets the following
conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
         (b)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
         (c)   The total cost will be more than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
      (3)   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, interest cost (while under
construction), accounting costs if material, and any costs directly
attributable to the construction of a building.
      (4)   The town will record donated buildings at fair market value on the
date of transfer with any associated costs.
      (5)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   CAPITAL OUTLAY. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal period. This include costs of acquiring land or structures, construction
or improvements of buildings, structures or other fixed assets, and equipment
purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness. These are
expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the governments
general fixed assets.
   ENTERPRISE FUNDS.
      (1)   Those funds used to account for operations:
         (a)   That are financed and operated in a manner similar to private
business enterprise where the intent of the governing body is that the costs
(expenses, including depreciation) of providing goods or services to the
general public on an continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily
through user charges; or
         (b)   Where the governing body has decided that periodic determination
of revenues earned, expenses incurred and/or net income is appropriate for
capital maintenance, public policy, management control, accountability and
other purposes.
      (2)   The ENTERPRISE FUNDS of the town shall include the municipally
owned water and sewage utilities which shall require enterprise fund account
and reporting.
   FIXED ASSET. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are needed for the
production or sale of goods or services are termed property, plant and
equipment or FIXED ASSETS. These assets are not held for sale in the ordinary
course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (e.g., land buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and
fixtures).
   HISTORIC COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or services at
the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment and most inventories are
common examples of items recognized under the HISTORICAL COST attribute.
   IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS.
      (1)   IMPROVEMENTS to a land for better enjoyment, attached or not easily
removed, and will have a life expectancy of greater than two years.
      (2)   Examples are walks, parking areas and drives, golf cart paths,
fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planter underground
sprinkler systems and other similar items.
      (3)   Improvements do not include roads, streets or assets that are of
value only to the public. For example, Main Street is a public street with
greatest value to the public. Roads or drives upon city-owned land that provide
support of town facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for public
enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement and is not capitalized. However,
sidewalks installed upon city-owned land for use by the public and for the
support of town facilities are capital assets.
      (4)   This town will capitalize new improvements other than buildings
only if it meets the following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
         (b)   The useful life is greater than two years.
      (5)   The town will capitalize improvements or renovations to existing
improvement other than building on if the result meets the following
conditions;
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
         (b)   The useful assets life is extended two or more years; and
         (c)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (6)   The town’s donated improvements other than buildings will be
recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer with any associated
costs.
      (7)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   LAND.
      (1)   This town will capitalize all LAND purchases, regardless of cost.
      (2)   Exception to land capitalization are land purchased outright, as
easements, or rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructures are
roads and streets, street lighting systems, bridges, overpasses, sidewalks,
curbs, parking meters, street signs, viaducts, wharfs and storm water
collection.
Original cost of LAND will include the full value given to the seller including
relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase (including title work and
opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying and costs for preparing the
land for its intended purpose, including contractors and/or city workers
(salary and benefits), such as demolishing buildings, excavating, clean up and/
or inspection.
      (3)   The town will record donated land at fair market value on the date
of transfer plus any associated costs.
      (4)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT.
      (1)   An apparatus, tool or conglomeration of pieces to form a tool. The
tool will stand alone and not become a part of a basic structure or building.
      (2)   This city will capitalize and tag items with an individual value
equal to or greater than $5,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to
form one unit with a total value greater than the above mentioned limit will be
one unit.
      (3)   Shipping charges, consultant fees and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery or set up (including contractors and/or
town works (salary and benefits), which makes such equipment operable for its
intended purpose will be capitalized.
      (4)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Total cost exceeds $5,000;
         (b)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
         (c)   The total costs will be greater than the current book value less
than the fair market value.
      (5)   Examples include:
         (a)   A work truck being equipped with screens, lights or radios for
use as a single unit throughout its life expectancy is considered one unit; and
         (b)   A computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard and printer) is considered
one unit.
      (6)   The town will record donated machinery and equipment at fair market
value on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
      (7)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the physical
senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard and
smelled.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed 9-27-2005)
§ 35.36 RECORDING AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The town shall classify capital expenditures as capital outlays within
the fund from which the expenditure was made in accordance with the Chart of
Accounts of the Cities and Towns Accounting Manual. The cost of property, plant
and equipment includes all expenditures necessary to put the asset into
position and ready for use. For purposes of recording fixed assets of the town,
the valuation of assets shall be based on historical cost or where the
historical cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in existence.
   (B)   (1)   The town’s municipally owned utilities shall record acquisition
of fixed assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
When an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply recorded at the
amount of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its purchase and
preparation for intended use.
      (2)   Assets may be acquired under a number of other arrangements
including:
         (a)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase price;
         (b)   Purchase on deferred payment contract;
         (c)   Acquisition under capital lease;
         (d)   Acquisition by exchange or no monetary assets;
         (e)   Acquisition by issuance of securities;
         (f)   Acquisition by self construction; and
         (g)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
   (C)   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to the
cost to be recorded; for example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has long been recognized as a part of the asset cost.
Reference to an intermediate accounting manual will illustrate the recording of
acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements for
purposes of recording fixed assets of the governmental unit.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed 9-27-2005)
§ 35.37 SAFEGUARDING OF ASSETS.
   The accounting controls be designed and implemented to provide reasonable
assurances that:
   (A)   Capital expenditures made by the town, its park and utilities be in
accordance with management’s authorization as documented in the minutes;
   (B)   Transaction of the utilities be recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
principles;
   (C)   Adequate detail records be maintained to assure accountability for
town and utility owned assets;
   (D)   Access to assets be permitted in accordance with managements
authorization; and
   (E)   The recorded accountability for assets be compared with the existing
assets at least every two years and appropriate action be taken with respect to
any difference.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed 9-27-2005)
§ 35.38 CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   All town departments shall henceforth maintain an inventory list in
the Clerk Treasurer's office of all equipment with a purchase value of $5,000
or more and/or an anticipated life of three or more years if:
      (1)   The equipment is an addition to existing equipment; and/or
      (2)   The equipment is uniquely identifiable in an asset audit (i.e., by
serial number or is one of a kind within the department) or is a new
replacement for an existing piece of equipment which has been retired from use
by trade-in, disposal or sale.
   (B)   Within three working days of receipt of any "new to the inventory"
equipment, the department head shall add the equipment to the department's
inventory list in the Clerk Treasurer's office and remove retired equipment
from the inventory.
   (C)   Building and structure improvements, regardless of value, shall be
capitalized on the building inventory if the expenditure meets any of the
following criteria:
      (1)   It is an addition to the existing building or structure;
      (2)   It adds permanent value to the total book value of the department;
and/or
      (3)   It prolongs the useful life of the existing structure, is permanent
in nature, and does not require periodic reoccurrence of the expenditure.
   (D)   Maintenance expenditures required on a periodic basis less than the
useful life of the asset will be considered maintenance. If the maintenance
expenditure is less than $5,000, the expenditure will be expensed as incurred.
If the maintenance expenditure is over $5,000 (i.e., re-roofing), it will be
written off over the useful life of the maintenance, but not more than five
years.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 3-1-2022)
COUNTY OPTION INCOME TAX
§ 35.50 COUNTY OPTION INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The County Income Tax Council imposes the county option income tax on
the county taxpayers of Warrick County. The county option income tax is imposed
at a rate of 0.2% on the resident county taxpayers of the county and at a rate
of 0.05% on all other county taxpayers. This tax takes effect July 1, 1985.
   (B)   The tax rate for subsequent years is as follows:
 
                              Resident County Taxpayers Other County Taxpayers
July 1, 1986 to June 30, 1987 0.3%                      0.75%
July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1988 0.4%                      0.1%
July 1, 1988 to June 30, 1989 0.5%                      0.125%
July 1, 1989 to June 30, 1990 0.6%                      0.15%
 
(Res. 3,1985, passed - -1985)
FUNDS
§ 35.65 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   The purposes of the Rainy Day Fund are as follows:
      (1)   Necessary maintenance, repair and/or demolition of all structures
located on real estate titled in the name of the town;
      (2)   Necessary maintenance and repair of sidewalks;
      (3)   Payment of debt service;
      (4)   Purchase, maintenance and repair of town equipment; and
      (5)   For other specific town purposes as determined by the Town Council.
   (B)   The funding for said Rainy Day Fund shall be any unused and any
unencumbered balance in all funds raised by a general or special tax levy on
all the taxable property of the town, with the unused and unencumbered balance
remaining in said fund to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, in amount not
more than 10% of the town’s annual budget for the fiscal year for which the
transfer is made.
(Ord. 2004-9, passed 4-6-2004)
§ 35.66 FIREFIGHTING FUND.
   (A)   The source of the funds to be placed in the Firefighting Fund are
payments made pursuant to the contracts with Hart Civil Township and Lane Civil
Township, and appropriated funds from the town.
   (B)   The purpose of expenditures from the Firefighting Fund are all
expenses incurred by the Lynnville Volunteer Fire Department allowed in the
annual budget approved by the town and the State Board of Tax Commissioners.
   (C)   The Firefighting Fund shall continue in existence unless terminated in
accordance with any of the following:
      (1)   Termination of the contracts with Lane Civil Township, Hart Civil
Township and the Lynnville Volunteer Fire Department;
      (2)   Dissolution of the Lynnville Volunteer Fire Department; and
      (3)   A determination by the town, Hart Civil Township and Lane Civil
Township that the Fund is no longer needed.
   (D)   If the Fund is terminated, all remaining revenue shall be used for
fire protection or returned to the appropriate general funds.
   (E)   The town shall be responsible for receiving and disbursing from the
Firefighting Fund and to keep records of those receipts and disbursements.
   (F)   All funds received need not be disbursed in the year received, but may
accumulate for the purpose of payment for larger expenditures.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 3-2-2004)
§ 35.67 TECUMSEH SCHOOL LINE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council and the Warrick School Board entered into an
agreement to allow Tecumseh High School sewer system to connect to the
Lynnville Park sewer line to prevent problems with the septic system at the
high school, and the Warrick School Board did agree to pay a certain amount to
the sewer utility and the Town Council agreed to use the monies for the purpose
of maintaining the line and any extra expense caused by this connection.
   (B)   The Town Council has determined that it is necessary to create an
account for the monies received. The account shall be titled Tecumseh School
Line Account and shall be spent only for the upkeep of the Lynnville Park line
where the connection was made.
(Ord. 2001-2, passed 8-1-2001)
§ 35.68 PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Park Board has made the decision to hold special events in
order to raise funds for playground equipment.
   (B)   Donated monies have been received for playground equipment.
   (C)   A special fund is to be set up and entitled Playground Equipment and
is to be kept in a separate fund; and because Lynnville Park will from time to
time receive donated monies for any designated purpose or the Town Park Board
will hold a fundraising event for a specified purpose, the Fund will be named
to coincide with the reason for said fundraiser. Any remaining monies not spent
for purchase of playground equipment will be kept in this special fund for
maintenance purposes.
(Ord. PK2001-3, passed 8-7-2001)
§ 35.69 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby re-established a Town Cumulative Capital Development
Fund.
   (B)   The fund will not exceed $0.05 on each $100 of assessed valuation for
taxes payable in 2025 thereafter, continuing until reduced or rescinded.
(Ord. 1987-G-1, passed 8-18-1987; Ord. 2024-6, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 35.70 PUBLIC SAFETY LIT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Public Safety LIT Fund for the purpose
of receipt of funds from the Public Safety LIT and to be used for permissible
public safety expenses in accordance with I.C. 6-3.6-2-14.
   (B)   The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of funds from the
Public Safety LIT Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as other funds
that receive local income tax funds.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 35.71 TECUMSEH TRAIL MAINTENANCE AND DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Tecumseh Trail Maintenance and
Donation Fund for the purpose of receipt of funds for maintenance and donations
for the maintenance and improvements of Tecumseh Trail.
   (B)   The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of funds from the
Tecumseh Trail Maintenance and Donation Fund by appropriations made in the same
manner as other funds that receive local funds.
(Ord. 2021-11, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 35.72 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. Pursuant to State Examiner Directive 2021-1, the
Town Council does hereby create Fund #176 which is designated as the ARP
Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund and shall be the depository fund for
allocations received through the ARP. All expenditures must be appropriated by
Council.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The Fiscal Officer shall develop a plan to utilize the
funds only for the following purposes, as permitted by law. The plan shall be
adopted by the Town Council by ordinance or resolution. The plan may be amended
in the future as additional state and federal guidance is provided. The plan
may include expenditures as permitted by Section 603 (c) of the ARP as follows:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses and nonprofits, or aid in impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the
Town of Lynnville that are performing such essential work, or by providing
grants to eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential
work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of the Town of Lynnville due to the COVID-19 public health
emergency relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of
the Town of Lynnville prior to the emergency; or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer or broadband
infrastructure.
   (C)   Internal controls. Internal controls shall be designated, implemented,
and documented to provide reasonable assurance that the ARP funds will be
safeguarded and used in accordance with the ARP.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 35.73 OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   Creation. There are hereby created two funds for the town as follows:
      (1)   Fund 2256 Opioid Settlement Unrestricted (“Unrestricted Fund”); and
      (2)   Fund 2257 Opioid Settlement Restricted (“Restricted Fund”).
   (B)   Source and use of funds. Monies received under the opioid settlement
shall be deposited in the funds and may be used as follows:
      (1)   Those monies received from the opioid settlement that are
unrestricted by the terms of the opioid settlement shall be deposited in the
unrestricted fund, and may be used or any lawful purpose; and
      (2)   Those monies received from the opioid settlement that are
restricted by the terms of the opioid settlement shall be deposited in the
restricted fund and may be used for only those purposes permitted under the
opioid settlement.
   (C)   Appropriation of funds required. Cash balances in the funds must be
appropriated before expenditure.
   (D)   No reversions of monies to the General Fund. Unexpended cash-balances
in the unrestricted fund and/or restricted fund will remain in the respective
fund and not revert to the General Fund at year end.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 1-3-2023)
TOWN CREDIT CARD
§ 35.80 TOWN CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   The use of credit cards by officers and town employees for purchase of
needed business items, or for payment of town business expenses, is hereby
authorized. The Town Council shall decide, by motion and vote, which credit
card(s), and their maximum credit limit not to exceed $10,000, may be acquired
and maintained by the town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall make application for credit card(s)
authorized by the Town Council and no other officer or employee of the town
shall make application or otherwise obtain any credit card(s).
   (C)   (1)   The following departments are authorized to possess and use a
credit cart issued to the town:
         (a)   Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Lynnville Park;
         (c)   Fire Department;
         (d)   Utility Department; and
         (e)   Street Department.
      (2)   Credit cards shall be maintained by the department head and
returned to the department head after use by an employee.
   (D)   The spending authority for each official or employee shall be a
maximum of $5,000 per occurrence. Any spending in excess of the maximum per
occurrence must be requested of, and authorized by, the Town Council.
   (E)   Credit cards issued in the name of the town shall not be used by any
officer or employee for payment of personal expenses. They may be used only for
expenses necessarily incurred for the operation of the town or park. Credit
cards shall not be used to obtain cash advances.
   (F)   All original receipts for use of the credit card shall be turned into
the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall verify that the use was for official town or
park business and certify to the Town Council that the claim representing the
card’s use is accurate and payable, and that any expense charged to a card
issued to the Clerk-Treasurer is accurate and properly payable.
   (G)   On the next business day following any use of the credit card, the
person using the credit card shall provide the original receipt to the Clerk-
Treasurer. Any employee who fails to timely provide the original receipt shall
be subject to discipline by the Town Council. If the failure to timely provide
the original receipt causes the town to be charged any late fee or interest on
a credit card, the employee responsible shall be liable for the those charges.
If no receipt if provided, the employee shall be liable for the full amount, to
include late fees or interest. If an employee charges in excess of the amount
authorized in division (D) above, the employee shal be liable for those
charges.
   (H)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay the credit cards promptly so that no
interest carrying charges or penalties shall be incurred due to late payments.
   (I)   For the purposes of this section, CREDIT CARD is defined as a credit
card, a debit card, a charge card, a stored value card, or a charge account
established with a vendor.
   (J)   Any credit cards in the name of the town currently in use shall be
used and maintained in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
section.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 6-1-2020)
TOWN CREDIT CARD
§ 35.80 TOWN CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   The use of credit cards by officers and town employees for purchase of
needed business items, or for payment of town business expenses, is hereby
authorized. The Town Council shall decide, by motion and vote, which credit
card(s), and their maximum credit limit not to exceed $10,000, may be acquired
and maintained by the town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall make application for credit card(s)
authorized by the Town Council and no other officer or employee of the town
shall make application or otherwise obtain any credit card(s).
   (C)   (1)   The following departments are authorized to possess and use a
credit cart issued to the town:
         (a)   Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Lynnville Park;
         (c)   Fire Department;
         (d)   Utility Department; and
         (e)   Street Department.
      (2)   Credit cards shall be maintained by the department head and
returned to the department head after use by an employee.
   (D)   The spending authority for each official or employee shall be a
maximum of $5,000 per occurrence. Any spending in excess of the maximum per
occurrence must be requested of, and authorized by, the Town Council.
   (E)   Credit cards issued in the name of the town shall not be used by any
officer or employee for payment of personal expenses. They may be used only for
expenses necessarily incurred for the operation of the town or park. Credit
cards shall not be used to obtain cash advances.
   (F)   All original receipts for use of the credit card shall be turned into
the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall verify that the use was for official town or
park business and certify to the Town Council that the claim representing the
card’s use is accurate and payable, and that any expense charged to a card
issued to the Clerk-Treasurer is accurate and properly payable.
   (G)   On the next business day following any use of the credit card, the
person using the credit card shall provide the original receipt to the Clerk-
Treasurer. Any employee who fails to timely provide the original receipt shall
be subject to discipline by the Town Council. If the failure to timely provide
the original receipt causes the town to be charged any late fee or interest on
a credit card, the employee responsible shall be liable for the those charges.
If no receipt if provided, the employee shall be liable for the full amount, to
include late fees or interest. If an employee charges in excess of the amount
authorized in division (D) above, the employee shall be liable for those
charges.
   (H)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay the credit cards promptly so that no
interest carrying charges or penalties shall be incurred due to late payments.
   (I)   For the purposes of this section, CREDIT CARD is defined as a credit
card, a debit card, a charge card, a stored value card, or a charge account
established with a vendor.
   (J)   Any credit cards in the name of the town currently in use shall be
used and maintained in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
section.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 6-1-2020)
CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
§ 35.85 CAPITALIZATION THRESHOLD.
   (A)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes an
item must at the time of acquisition be valued for accounting and financial
reporting purposes at a unit historical cost greater than or equal to $10,000
($5,000 if funded through a federal grant).
   (B)   This capitalization threshold is to be applied prospectively starting
January 1, 2022.
   (C)   Assets shall remain as part of the property record until they are
retired, sold, traded, or otherwise disposed of regardless of their net book
value amount.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 35.86 ESTIMATED USEFUL LIVES OF DEPRECIABLE ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets have estimated useful lives extending beyond a single
reporting period of one year.
Town
 Land                                                        non-depreciable
 Improvements to Land                                        20 years
     (Including outdoor lighting and playground equipment)
 Buildings and Building improvements                         50 years
 Machinery and Equipment                                      
    Vehicles                                              5 years
    Autos                                                 5 years
    Light Trucks                                          10 years
    Heavy Trucks                                          15 years
 General Infrastructure                                      100 years
 Streets                                                     100 years
Water Utility
 Land                                                        non-depreciable
 Improvements to Land                                        20 years
 Tanks, pumps, etc.                                          25 years
 Towers                                                      50 years
 Water Distribution System                                   100 years
Sanitary Sewers
 Sanitary Sewer Collection System                            100 years
 
   (B)   Any future changes to estimated useful lives will be applied
prospectively.
   (C)   Any future asset life increase or extension will reflect a significant
alteration, rehabilitation, or structural change.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 6-7-2022)
§ 35.87 DEPRECIATION METHOD AND CONVENTION.
   Depreciation will be calculated as to annual, accumulated, and net book
value amounts using the straight-line method and full-year convention. No
salvage value or residual value will be recognized.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 6-7-2022)
CHAPTER 36: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
36.01   Establishment
   
36.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
36.03   Duties of Clerk
   
36.04   Schedule of fines
   
36.05   Right to trial
   
36.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
36.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
36.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
36.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 36.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who is Clerk-Treasurer of the municipality,
to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
36.01, the Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the Violations Clerk for
purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
§ 36.03 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the Town Council, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 36.04 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
36.01, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code, a schedule of
ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of violation before
the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be assessed to a
violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by and accounted for by
the Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts. Payment
of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail, or to an
agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
§ 36.05 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount
prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
36.04.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 36.06 DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 36.07 FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 36.08 COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-6 when determining the percentage
of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 36.09 DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, all sums collected by the Violations
Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be accounted for and
paid to the town as provided by law.
   (B)   If a city or town that has not established a court under I.C. 33-35-
1 or an ordinance violations bureau under I.C. 33-36-2 has entered into an
interlocal agreement described in I.C. 33-36-2-4 with a municipal corporation,
the sums collected by the Violations Clerk that involve the city or town that
has not established a court or an ordinance violations bureau shall be
accounted for and paid as provided in the interlocal agreement.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
CHAPTER 37: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Adopting the multi-hazard mitigation plan for the county
   
37.002   Meetings and travel expenses
   
37.003   Nepotism and contracting with a unit policies
   
37.004   Adoption of the notice provisions of the Americans with Disabilities
Act
   
37.005   Electronic participation in meetings
Tort Claims Against Town
   
37.015   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
37.016   Form and service of notice
Drug Free Workplace
   
37.030   Overview
   
37.031   Policy
   
37.032   Prohibited drugs
   
37.033   Alcohol
   
37.034   Reporting violations
   
37.035   Employee rehabilitation
   
37.036   Testing
Substance Abuse Policy
   
37.050   Coverage
   
37.051   Policy
   
37.052   Pre-employment substance screening
   
37.053   Employee responsibilities
   
37.054   Substance screening for current employees
   
37.055   Consequences of sale, distribution or use of illegal substances
   
37.056   Use of medication and prescription drugs
   
37.057   Confidentiality
Personnel Policy
   
37.070   Application
   
37.071   Employment and compensation
   
37.072   Work environment
   
37.073   Drug use
   
37.074   Code of ethics and conduct
   
37.075   Work practices
   
37.076   Environmental crimes and penalties
   
37.077   Leave of absence
   
37.078   Sick day
   
37.079   Personal day
   
37.080   Vacation
   
37.081   Meal/rest breaks
   
37.082   Holidays
   
37.083   Payroll
   
37.084   Termination of employment
   
37.085   Employee education
   
37.086   Mileage
   
37.087   What constitutes full-time employment
   
37.088   Exceptions to policy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 ADOPTING THE MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN FOR THE COUNTY.
   The town hereby adopts the Warrick County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan as an
official plan.
(Res. 2022-4, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 37.002 MEETINGS AND TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Council shall determine which trips are necessary and which trips
the town shall bear the expense of and that the amount for meals shall be
determined by the Council and reimbursed only on proof of expenditure on a case
by case basis.
   (B)   (1)   The person furnishing the conveyance for each mile necessarily
traveled to the place and return of Town Council approved trips shall be paid
at the rate per mile as prescribed by the State Board of Accounts on the date
or dates of travel.
      (2)   All mileage claims shall be filled out on the state approved
mileage claim form.
      (3)   Town owned vehicles shall be excluded.
(Ord. 2004-15, passed 10-5-2004; Ord. 2016-2, passed 5-3-2016)
Cross-reference:
   Mileage, see §
37.086 
§ 37.003 NEPOTISM AND CONTRACTING WITH A UNIT POLICIES.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town and in
contracting with the town in order to be able to provide local government
services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective July 1,
2012 known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012 the town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with
a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter “nepotism policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “contracting with
a unit by a relative policy”) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The town nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 3, 2012
by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which, become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition, a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2 Nepotism in effect on July 1 is adopted by
reference, and a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (D)   The town contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition, a copy of the I.C. 36-1-21 Contracting with
a Unit by a Relative Policy in effect on July 1 is adopted by reference, and a
part hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (E)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority he or she will
not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (F)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrating compliance with these same policies.
   (G)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (H)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of the contracting with unit by a
relative policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (I)   (1)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
         (b)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
         (c)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section;
or
         (d)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
polices established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
      (2)   Upon the taking of any of these actions the policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (J)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the town for
public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 7-3-2012)
§ 37.004 ADOPTION OF THE NOTICE PROVISIONS OF THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES
ACT.
   (A)   Notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
      (1)   The Town of Lynnville adopts the 2010 Americans with Disabilities
Act Standards for Accessible Design and the 2005 Guidelines for Accessible
Public Rights. In accordance with the requirements of Title II of the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 ("ADA"), the Town of Lynnville, Indiana will not
discriminate against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of
disability in its services, programs, or activities.
      (2)   Employment. The Town of Lynnville, Indiana does not discriminate on
the basis of disability in its hiring or employment practices and complies with
all regulations promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
under Title I of the ADA.
      (3)   Effective communication. The Town of Lynnville, Indiana will
generally, upon request, provide appropriate aids and services leading to
effective communication for qualified persons with disabilities so they can
participate equally in the Town of Lynnville's programs, services, and
activities, including qualified sign language interpreters, documents in
Braille, and other ways of making information and communication accessible to
people who have speech, hearing, or vision impairments.
      (4)   Modifications to policies and procedures. The Town of Lynnville
will make all reasonable modifications to policies and programs to ensure that
people with disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all of its
programs, services, and activities. For example, individuals with service
animals are welcomed in the Town of Lynnville offices, even where pets are
generally prohibited.
      (5)   Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective
communication, or a modification of policies or procedures to participate in a
program, service, or activity of the Town of Lynnville, should contact the
Clerk-Treasurer at the Lynnville Town Hall, 207 Main St., Lynnville, Indiana
47619, 812-922-5111, as soon as possible but no later than 48 hours before the
scheduled event.
      (6)   The ADA does not require the Town of Lynnville to take any action
that would fundamentally alter the nature of its programs or services, or
impose an undue financial or administrative burden.
      (7)   Complaints that a program, service, or activity of the Town of
Lynnville is not accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to
the Clerk- Treasurer at the Lynnville Town Hall, 207 Main St., Lynnville,
Indiana 47619, 812-922-5111. The Town of Lynnville, Indiana will not place a
surcharge on a particular individual with a disability or any group of
individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of providing auxiliary aids/
services or reasonable modifications of policy, such as retrieving items from
locations that are open to the public but are not accessible to persons who use
wheelchairs.
   (B)   The Town of Lynnville grievance procedure under the Americans with
Disabilities Act.
      (1)   This grievance procedure is established to meet the requirements of
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 ("ADA"). It may be used by anyone
who wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of
disability in the provision of services, activities, programs, or benefits by
the Town of Lynnville. The Town of Lynnville's personnel policy governs
employment-related complaints of disability discrimination.
      (2)   The complaint should be in writing and contain information about
the alleged discrimination such as: the name, address, and phone number of the
complainant; and the location, date and description of the problem. Alternative
means of filing complaints, such as personal interviews or tape recording of
the complaint will be made available for persons with disabilities upon
request.
      (3)   The complaint should be submitted by the complainant and/or his/her
designee as soon as possible but not later than 60 calendar days after the
alleged violation to:
Lynnville Town Hall
ATTN: Clerk-Treasurer - Human Relations
P.O. Box 99, 207 Main St., Lynnville, IN 47619
      (4)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, the Clerk-
Treasurer and/or department head will meet with the complainant to discuss the
complaint and the possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days of the meeting,
the Clerk-Treasurer and/or department head will respond in writing and, where
appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, such as large print,
Braille, or audio tape. The response will explain the position of the Town of
Lynnville and offer options for substantive resolution of the complaint.
      (5)   If the response by the Clerk-Treasurer and/or department head does
not satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his/her designee
may appeal the decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the response
to the Lynnville Town Council, P.O. Box 99, 207 Main St., Lynnville, IN 47619.
      (6)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the Lynnville
Town Council will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and
possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days after the meeting, the Lynnville
Town Council will respond in writing and, where appropriate, in a format
accessible to the complainant, with a final resolution of the complaint.
      (7)   All written complaints received by the Clerk-Treasurer and/or
department head, appeals to the Lynnville Town Council, and responses from
these two offices will be retained by the Town of Lynnville for at least three
years.
(Res. 2021-2, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 37.005 ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION IN MEETINGS.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   The provisions of Chapter 14 of Title 5 of the Indiana Code (the
“Act”), including its definitions, shall apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “electronic meetings policy” and
shall apply to the Town Council and any board, commission, or committee that
takes official action upon public business and whose members are appointed by
the Town Council and/or the Town Council President.
      (3)   For purposes of the electronic meetings policy, “member” shall mean
the members of the Town Council and/or any board, commission or committee that
takes official action upon public business and whose members are appointed by
the Town Council and/or the Town Council President.
      (4)   This electronic meeting policy is adopted pursuant to I.C. 5-14-
1.5-3.5. To the extent the provisions of said statute are more restrictive than
this electronic meetings policy, the more restrictive provisions set forth in
the statute shall apply.
   (B)   Participation.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any member may participate in
a meeting by any means of electronic communication that:
         (a)   Allow all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate
with each other; and
         (b)   Allow the public to attend and observe the meeting unless the
meeting is being held in an executive session.
      (2)   A member who participates in a meeting by electronic means of
communication shall be
considered present for purposes of establishing a quorum but may participate in
final action taken at the meeting only if the member can be seen and heard.
      (3)   A member may not participate by means of electronic communication
in a meeting at which
final action is attempted to:
         (a)   Adopt a budget;
         (b)   Make a reduction in personnel;
         (c)   Initiate a referendum;
         (d)   Establish or increase a fee; establish or increase a penalty;
         (e)   Exercise the town's power of eminent domain; or
         (f)   Establish, impose, raise, or renew a tax.
   (C)   Limitations and requirements.
      (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by means of electronic communication, unless the member's electronic
participation is due to military service, illness or other medical condition,
the death of a relative, or an emergency involving actual or threatened injury
to persons or property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (i.e., a set of
meetings) by means of electronic communication. A member must physically attend
at least one meeting between sets of meetings that the member attends by means
of electronic communication, unless the member's absence is due to military
service, illness or other medical condition, the death of a relative, or an
emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or property.
      (4)   A member who desires to participate in a meeting by means of
electronic communication shall notify the President or Clerk-Treasurer at least
48 hours in advance of the meeting in order that proper preparations may be
made for such participation. Failure to provide notice under this division
shall not preclude a member from participating in a meeting by electronic means
of communication if proper preparations have been made to allow such
participation despite failure of notice.
      (5)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
      (6)   The minutes or memoranda for a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an
electronic means of communication shall:
         (a)   State the name of each member of the governing body who:
            1.   Was physically present at the place where the meeting was
conducted;
            2.   Participated in the meeting by any electronic means of
communication; and
            3.   Was absent; and
         (b)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
            1.   Members participated in the meeting; or
            2.   The public attended and observed the meeting, if the meeting
was not held in executive session.
   (D)   Disaster emergency. If a disaster emergency is declared by the
governor under I.C. 10-14-3-12, or a local disaster emergency is declared by
the Town Council president under I.C. 10-14-3-29, members are not required to
be physically present for a meeting until the emergency is terminated. During
such an emergency, members may participate in a meeting by any means of
electronic communication provided that:
      (1)   At least a quorum of members participate in the meeting by means of
electronic communication or in person;
      (2)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting,
unless the meeting is an
executive session.
      (3)   The minutes or memorandum of the meeting must comply with division
(C)(5); and
      (4)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic
means of communication must be taken by roll call vote.
(Res. 2024-11, passed 12-3-2024)
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 37.015 CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 37.016 FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
DRUG FREE WORKPLACE
§ 37.030 OVERVIEW.
   The town makes a commitment to provide employees a safe working environment,
to ensure that employees, equipment and operating practices comply with health
and safety standards, and to maintain public confidence in the town and its
employees. Since the town values each employee, the town offers employees
assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse problems.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 37.031 POLICY.
   (A)   The town requires all employees to report for work in a condition that
allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner. Employees
will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with prohibited
drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
   (C)   This subchapter and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the town.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 37.032 PROHIBITED DRUGS.
   (A)   PROHIBITED DRUGS are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §§
801 et seq.) and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through
1308.15) and prescription controlled substances which have not been prescribed
by a licensed physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the
employee. Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated
as a substance abuse problem under this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include, but are not limited to, marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens and barbiturates.
Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over to the state
police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 37.033 ALCOHOL.
   (A)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
   (B)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic beverage
containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town premises,
unless their possession is part of an authorized official event. Possession of
such containers in vehicles used for town business is never authorized.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 37.034 REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Employees must, as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this subchapter and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 701 et seq.)
   (B)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity may
be considered in violation of this subchapter. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public or the town’s reputation and image.
   (C)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be directed
to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 37.035 EMPLOYEE REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
   (B)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug related problems are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in a approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the employee and family assistance program, before work
performance becomes affected.
   (C)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this subchapter or any other town policies or job requirements.
   (D)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
   (E)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the course
of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 37.036 TESTING.
   (A)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
   (B)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior is
reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
      (2)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol rehabilitation
program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the town; and
      (3)   When required by law.
   (B)   (1)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern
and/or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town.
      (2)   The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination
is necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 2-11-2014)
SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY
§ 37.050 COVERAGE.
   This policy applies to all employees of the town and its operated facilities
and all applicants for such employment.
(Res. passed 8-17-1994)
§ 37.051 POLICY.
   All employees are expected to be in a state of mind and physical condition
fit to complete their assigned duties safely and completely during work hours
and to do so without use and effect of illegal controlled substances and/or
alcoholic beverages.
(Res. passed 8-17-1994)
§ 37.052 PRE-EMPLOYMENT SUBSTANCE SCREENING.
   (A)   All applicants for full-time or part-time employment with the town are
required to submit to a medical examination prior to their appointment to a
town position.
   (B)   As part of this medical examination, prospective employees will be
screened for a range of chemical substances, those chemical substances shall
include but not necessarily be limited to the following:
      (1)   Amphetamine/methamphetamine (e.g., speed);
      (2)   Benzodiazepines (e.g., Valium, Librium, Dalmane, Ativan);
      (3)   Barbiturates (e.g., Amobarbital, Butabarbital, Pentobarbital,
Phenobarbital);
      (4)   Cocaine;
      (5)   Methadone;
      (6)   Methaqualone (e.g., Quaalude);
      (7)   Opiates (e.g., codeine, heroin, morphine);
      (8)   Phencyclidine (PCP);
      (9)   THC (marijuana and other cannabanoids);
      (10)   Alcohol; and
      (11)   Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD).
   (C)   These substance groups were selected based upon known abuse in the
general area of the town and the ability of each substance to adversely affect
physical and mental performance. All controlled substances listed above are
illegal under state and federal law.
   (D)   At the time of the medical examination, applicants for full-time or
part-time employment will be told of the substance or controlled substance and
alcohol screening and will be told and will be required to sign a consent form
to permit such screening and provide appropriate bodily fluids for such
screening. Applicants who refuse to consent to substance screening, who refuse
to provide appropriate bodily fluids for such screening or who attempt to
tamper with screening samples will not be eligible for employment with the
town.
   (E)   Any applicant whose initial substance screen shows a positive result
will have that result confirmed by additional studies. If the second screen of
the same sample shows a negative result the individual will not be disqualified
from town employment on account of the substance screen. If the second screen
confirms the positive test result, the applicant may be disqualified from
consideration for town employment. The applicant will be notified of the
positive results from the second screen and be given the opportunity, at the
applicant’s expense, to have a third screen conducted on the same sample within
72 hours after the applicant is notified of the results of the second screen.
If this final screen again confirms the positive test result, the prospective
employee will be disqualified from employment with the town.
   (F)   All screens will be made on the same sample by a firm selected by the
town. An applicant whose screen shows a positive result will have 24 hours
after receiving such notification of positive screen results to provide
verification of a current valid prescription in the applicant’s name.
   (G)   The required medical examination, and screening of bodily fluids for
chemical substances, except for the third screen as herein provided, shall be
at the sole expense of the town.
   (H)   To the extent possible, confidentiality will be maintained by the town
for all records and reports of the testing of an applicant’s bodily fluids.
(Res. passed 8-17-1994)
§ 37.053 EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Employees who have a substance abuse problem are expected to obtain
treatment and counseling through the numerous treatment agencies available
throughout the area of the county and the area within 60 miles of the town.
   (B)   Given the importance of maintaining a work environment without the
presence of alcohol and drugs and the opportunities that employees have to
address substance dependencies through treatment and counseling programs
offered through various treatment facilities throughout the area of the county
and the area within 60 miles of the town, substance abuse which adversely
effects job performance will not be tolerated. This applies to on duty
employees as well as employees who are on call. Employees whose on or off duty
use of substances impacts job performance will be appropriately disciplined
including, but not limited to, the sanction of termination from employment with
the town.
   (C)   Employee responsibilities include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following.
      (1)   An employee must not report to work or be subject to duty while his
or her ability to perform job duties is impaired due to alcohol or illegal drug
or substance use, on or off duty.
      (2)   An employee shall not possess or use illegal drugs or illegal
substances during working hours, on breaks, during meal periods, while on town
property in an official or unofficial capacity or while operating any town
vehicle or machinery.
      (3)   An employee shall not possess or use an alcoholic beverage or have
the odor of an alcoholic beverage on his or her breath during working hours, on
breaks, during meal periods, while on town property in an official or
unofficial capacity or while operating any town vehicle or machinery.
      (4)   An employee shall not directly, or through a third party, sell or
provide illegal drugs or substances or alcoholic beverage to any person or to
any other employee while either or both employees are on duty during working
hours, on breaks, during meal periods, while on town property in an official or
unofficial capacity, while operating any town vehicle or machinery, or on call.
      (5)   An employee shall submit immediately to reasonable request for
alcohol or drug analysis when requested by a first line supervisor and/or
department head.
      (6)   An employee shall notify his or her supervisor before beginning
work, when taking any medication or drugs, (prescription, or non-prescription)
which may interfere with the safe and effective performance of duties or
operations of the town equipment.
      (7)   An employee shall provide within 24 hours of request, a current
valid prescription for any drug or medication identified when that employee’s
drug screen/analysis is positive. The prescription must be in the employee’s
name.
   (D)   An employee shall notify its supervisor or department head or any
conviction of a federal or state criminal drug statue for a violation occurring
in the employee’s workplace, not later than five days after such conviction.
(Res. passed 8-17-1994)
§ 37.054 SUBSTANCE SCREENING FOR CURRENT EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Town employees are subject to substance screening if there is a
reasonable suspicion that while on duty they are impaired. IMPAIRED is defined
as being unable to perform duties safely and completely due to the use of
alcohol and/or controlled substances. REASONABLE SUSPICION is a belief based on
objective fact sufficient to lead a reasonably prudent person to suspect that
an employee is under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol so that the
employee’s ability to perform the functions of the job is impaired or so the
employees ability to perform his or her job safely is reduced.
   (B)   Observations which constitute a factual basis for determining
reasonable suspicion may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Odor of alcoholic beverage upon the employee’s breath;
      (2)   Erratic behavior;
      (3)   Violent mood swings;
      (4)   Excessive absenteeism;
      (5)   Repeated tardiness;
      (6)   Inability to walk a straight line;
      (7)   Open and obvious possession of alcohol and/or illegal controlled
substances;
      (8)   Slurred speech;
      (9)   An accident which is caused by the apparent action or inaction of
the employee under circumstances giving rise to a reasonable inference that the
accident was caused or was a result of the use of alcohol and/or illegal
controlled substances;
      (10)   Possession of drug paraphernalia or alcohol beverage containers;
or
      (11)   A report of a reliable witness indicating use or possession of
drugs or alcohol.
   (C)   A supervisor who has reasonable suspicion that an employee is impaired
by alcohol or other illegal controlled substances on the job will, with the
approval of the department head, immediately arrange for a substance screening
through a medical facility that has been designed to perform such screening for
the town.
   (D)   Employees who are scheduled for a substance screening must be
transported to the designated medical facility by the employee’s first line
supervisor and/or department head. The employee to be tested shall sign a
consent form to permit such screening and shall provide appropriate bodily
fluids for such screening. The screening for substances will be made on a
sample provided at the clinic. The procedures for such sample collection and
testing will be made based upon the medically accepted procedure developed by
the chosen medical facility and in order to ensure results of tests no less
than a highly sensitive methodology shall be utilized. Such testing shall be
based on medically acceptable testing procedures and shall include, but not
necessarily be limited primarily to, tests utilizing enzyme amino acid
techniques followed up by more specific confirmation testing such as gas
chromatography (GC) or gas chromatography/mass spectrophotometry (GCMS) or
other highly sophisticated methods which are accepted by the medical facility
and/or by the courts. After the sample is given as outlined above, the
supervisor will see to it that the employee is safely transported home. In
addition, for alcoholic beverage testing, the facilities, as the County Police
Department or the state police, and the use of that department’s breath test
instrument shall be a sufficient determination for blood alcohol content,
provided statutorily approved procedures are followed.
   (E)   At the testing as outlined above, if the sample provides a negative
result, the conclusion will be that the sample contains no alcohol and/or a
controlled substance. However, if the first screen shows a positive result, and
a second screen using a more sophisticated testing technique shows a positive
result, then the employee will be assumed to be under the influence of alcohol
and/or illegal controlled substances. An employee whose test shows a positive
result will have 24 hours after receiving notification of the positive result
to provide a bona fide and verified current valid prescription which may have
caused the positive result. The prescription must be in the employee’s name.
   (F)   The discipline for failing to sign a consent form to permit screening
for failure to provide appropriate bodily fluids for screening or for being
under the influence of alcohol and/or non-prescribed controlled substances will
be the basis for appropriate employee sanctions including the sanction of
termination. Such determination will be made on the basis of the employee’s
prior work related history, previous disciplinary actions, and any prior
identification of substance abuse problems. An employee who receives a positive
result in substance abuse screening will receive at a minimum of a five-day
suspension without pay. An employee who refuses to sign a consent form to
permit screening, or who fails to provide appropriate bodily fluids for
screening, will receive at a minimum of a five-day suspension without pay.
   (G)   In addition to the disciplinary procedure as outlined above and if an
employee substance abuse problem has been identified, the supervisor and/or
department head will immediately refer the employee to a reputable substance
abuse entity for an evaluation. Based on the determination of that substance
abuse entity, the employee may be required to undergo a drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment program as a condition of continued employment. Any
and all expenses incurred as a result of the evaluation and/or treatment
program undertaken by the employee as a condition of its continued employment
shall be paid by the employee.
   (H)   If the town receives notification of any employee conviction of a drug
offense which occurred in the employee’s work place, or if the town receives
notification of an employee violation of the terms of the policy herein stated,
the town shall, within 30 days after receipt of said notice either:
      (1)   Impose a sanction on the employee, which may include employee
termination; or
      (2)   Require the employee to satisfactorily participate in a drug or
alcohol abuse assistance or rehabilitative program approved by the Town
Council.
(Res. passed 8-17-1994)
§ 37.055 CONSEQUENCES OF SALE, DISTRIBUTION OR USE OF ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES.
   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a
controlled substance or illegal substance by an employee during working hours
while on duty, during meal periods, during breaks or at any time while the
employee is on the town’s work site or on town working time, constitutes cause
for dismissal. Appropriate law enforcement agencies will be notified of any
such unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a
controlled substance or illegal substance by employees.
(Res. passed 8-17-1994)
§ 37.056 USE OF MEDICATION AND PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
   All employees who are using a prescription or non-prescription drug which
may in any way impact their job performance must notify their first line
supervisor. The department head and/or first line supervisor may require a
doctor’s statement if the employ indicates that there is need to use the
prescription drug for an extended period of time.
(Res. passed 8-17-1994)
§ 37.057 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   The confidentiality of laboratory reports or test results shall appear
in employee’s confidential file. Reports or test results may be disclosed to
town department heads and first line supervisors on a strictly need to know
basis and to the tested employee upon request.
   (B)   Disclosures without employee consent may also occur when:
      (1)   The information is compelled by law or by judicial or
administrative process;
      (2)   The information has been placed at the issue and there is a formal
dispute between the employer and employee;
      (3)   The information is to be used in administering any employee benefit
plan; and
      (4)   Information is needed by medical personnel for the diagnosis or
treatment of the employee who is unable to authorize such disclosure.
(Res. passed 8-17-1994)
PERSONNEL POLICY
§ 37.070 APPLICATION.
   The following is the town’s personnel policy which cover all full-time and
part-time employees. This is not a contract of employment and does not
guarantee employment.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.071 EMPLOYMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Equal employment opportunity. The town believes that equal employment
opportunities benefit both you and the town. To run a successful town, it is
important to hire the best talent available, regardless of race, creed,
religion, color, sex, age, veteran status, national origin or disability. The
town promotes equal opportunity at all levels of its operation, from
recruitment, throughout one’s career, to retirement. All personnel policies are
administered equitably.
   (B)   Employment at will.  
      (1)   Employment for the town is “at will”. This means that each employee
may, at any time, voluntarily leave employment with the town, with or without
notice. The town may at any time terminate the employment relationship with
just cause and with notice.
      (2)   The policy may not be modified by any statement contained in this
subchapter or any other employee materials, including applications, memoranda
or other documents provided to applicants and employees in connection with
their employment. None of these documents, whether single or combined, create
any express or implied contract of employment for a definite period or an
express or implied contract concerning any terms or conditions of employment.
      (3)   The town’s policies and practices with respect to any matter should
not be considered as creating any contractual obligation on the part of the
town or as stating in any way termination will occur only “for cause”.
Statements of specific grounds for discharge or termination set forth in this
policy or any other town documents are examples only and are not intended to
restrict the town’s right to terminate or discharge “at will”.
   (C)   Falsification of town records. An employee who falsifies town records
will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge. Examples
of town records include, but are not limited to, employment applications,
expense account records, labor document and time sheets.
   (D)   Garnishments. When an order is issued by a court of law, the town is
required by law to garnish wages. The employee shall be given one week’s notice
prior to garnishment.
   (E)   Outside employment. Employees shall not engage in any outside
employment that adversely affects his or her job performance for the town.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.072 WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   Equipment policy. Employees shall treat town equipment with care. If
negligence or abuse by an employee is determined to have occurred, the employee
shall be held solely responsible.
   (B)   Phone calls/texts. Town phones shall be used for business purposes
only, except in case of emergency. Employees shall return personal calls/texts
at their designated break time, except in case of emergency.
   (C)   Courtesy. Employees shall be courteous in business relationships with
both customers and fellow employees, whether in person, on the phone or in
written correspondence. Any discourtesy will be appropriately addressed by the
Town Council. This does not give a customer license to use inappropriate
language, demine or in any way disrespect you as a person.
   (D)   Smoking. Smoking is prohibited in areas prohibited by law, local
ordinance or applicable regulations. Smoking is prohibited in areas chemicals
are stored or used. Smoking is prohibited in all areas there are occupational
safety hazards.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.073 DRUG USE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The town is committed to provide a drug-free environment at the
workplace. Drug use in the workplace is a threat to the safety and health of
employees and it jeopardizes the efficiency of operations and the quality of
town services. The town does not intend to intrude on the privacy of its
employees. However, the town requires that employees report to work and remain
fully able to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner. The town’s
policy is to comply with the provisions set forth in the Drug-Free Workplace
Act of 1988, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 701 et seq.
      (2)   The policy statement is as follows:
The manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession or use of an illegal
drug in the workplace is prohibited. An illegal drug includes any controlled
substance or drug-like substance whose use, possession, purchase, sale,
distribution or manufacturing is unlawful.
   (B)   Policy guidelines.
      (1)   Conviction of a drug-related offense. Steps to be taken if an
employee is convicted of a drug-related offense occurs on the town premises:
         (a)   Employee shall notify the appropriate person within five days
after the conviction (conviction - finding of guilty, including a plea of no-
contest);
         (b)   Employee shall notify the Executive Director (President of Town
Council); and
         (c)   As required by the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, being 21
U.S.C. §§ 701 et seq., the town shall impose sanctions on the employee within
30 days after receiving notification. Sanctions may include termination of
employment or mandatory participation in an approved drug abuse assistance or
rehabilitation program. Compliance with this policy is a condition of
employment. Any employee who violates this policy shall be subject to
disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
      (2)   Drug test. The town may diagnostically test any employee whose
condition is suspected of being affected with illegal drugs. This includes
employees who are on town property or who are on the job or on duty at any town
location. If diagnostic tests reveal the presence of an illegal drug, the
employee will be subject to discharge. If an employee refuses to submit to an
diagnostic test, he or she will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action,
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   Drug searches. The town will conduct a search if any employee is
suspected of manufacturing, selling, distributing, purchasing, possessing or
using an illegal drug while on any town property or while doing any business
pertaining to the town. The search may be conducted on or off company property
and may include a search of the employee, employee’s vehicle, employee’s
personal belongings and any town property assigned to the employee. Any illegal
drugs or drug paraphernalia found during the search will be turned over to the
proper authorities.
      (4)   On-the-job drug use, possession or sale. Any employee who
manufactures, sell, distributes, dispenses, purchases, possesses or uses an
illegal drug while on town property or while conducting business pertaining to
the town, will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
discharge.
      (5)   Off-the-job-drug possession or sale. If an employee is convicted of
off-the-job illegal drug activity, the Executive Director (President of the
Town Council) will review the situation. In deciding what action to take, the
Town Council will consider the nature of the conviction, the employee’s present
job assignment, the employee’s record with the town and other factors related
to the impact of the employee’s conviction on the conduct of the town business.
      (6)   On-the-job use of prescribed drugs. There may be times when
employees are prescribed a drug to treat a sickness or disease. In this case,
the employee should advise their supervisor of the type of drug and side
effects of taking a drug that might affect their job performance. Employees
will not be allowed to work if taking a legally prescribed drug that impairs
their ability to perform their job, or that may jeopardize the safety of the
employee or co-workers. If possible, employees shall be reassigned to a
position that can be performed safely. Otherwise, the employee will not be able
to return to work until such time they would be able to perform their duties
safely for the employee and their co-workers.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.074 CODE OF ETHICS AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   ETHICS are principles of moral duty/right and wrong decisions that
generally come into play when we are faced with a choice. These principles are
related to the personal conduct of individuals and are the product of human
traditions over thousands of years. When offered a gift from one of the town’s
vendors, should you accept it or not? When asked by someone to reveal
information from a customer’s records, should you go ahead and say “no”?
Individuals make these choices, but the decisions they make reflect on the
entire town.
      (2)   All employees of the town carry the town’s good name in their hands
whenever they make a decision, and they make hundreds every day. From all these
decisions, public and private, working values emerge. They show the public
whether we deal fairly or play favorites; whether we take safety seriously or
just pay it lip service; whether our work is good or whether it isn’t. Now more
that ever, people are watching our conduct. They want to know what kind of town
we are, how far we go to do the right thing, what value we place on principle.
That’s why this Code of Ethics and Conduct was compiled, to guide you when you
are faced with a choice. Constant attention to appropriate priorities and to
the concept of ethical decision-making helps us make better decisions.
      (3)   Within groups and societies there are those who choose, at times,
not to conform to the standard of ethical conduct which has been established.
At the town, actions not living up to our established standards of ethical
conduct are not tolerated. Appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including
discharge and prosecution, will be exercised.
      (4)   Since almost every business has an element of ethics in it and
since no written document can anticipate every situation, this one is designed
to act as a general guide in those matters that most frequently create ethical
problems or demand an ethical decision.
      (5)   If you feel that a situation could exist which is or could be in
conflict with this Code of Ethics and Conduct, you should discuss it with your
Town Council.
      (6)   The town’s employees should continue to strive for one standard of
ethical conduct: the highest. Our ethics are ultimately determined by all of us
as we do our daily jobs.
   (B)   Conflicts of interest.
      (1)   Generally. It is impractical to try to foresee or define every
situation which might be considered a conflict of interest. Generally speaking,
it is any situation which has the potential to adversely influence your
judgment in carrying out your town duties. That is, at times, your personal
interests may conflict with those of the town.
      (2)   General obligations. All employees of the town have an obligation
to be free from any personal influences or conflicting interest when they
represent the town or make any recommendations influencing the town’s actions.
While the town respects the rights of employees to privacy in their personal
activities and financial affairs, any situation which either are, or appear to
be, in conflict with their responsibility to act in the best interest of the
town must be avoided at all times.
      (3)   Financial interests. Conflicts with the interests of the town can
arise when an employee or a dependent of any employee has a pecuniary interest
in or derives from a contract or purchase connected with the town served by the
employee. In such circumstances, the employee shall comply with I.C. 35-44.1-1-
4 or be subject to conviction of the commission of a level 6 felony.
      (4)   Other employment. Any outside employment which prevents your giving
full measure to your town duties is a conflict of interest. This is aside from
any other possible financial conflict.
      (5)   Gifts, gratuities and entertainment. No employee shall solicit or
accept any personal fees, gifts, favors or other remuneration in exchange for
town business. Acceptance of articles of nominal value, such as used for sales,
promotions, ordinary business lunches and reasonable entertainment consistent
with local social and business custom, is not considered conflict.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.075 WORK PRACTICES.
   (A)   Equal opportunity. The town believes in equal opportunity for all
employees and candidates for employment. Individuals are selected and placed on
the basis of qualifications for the work to be performed. The town strives to
permit each employee to achieve their potential.
   (B)   Sexual harassment. It is the policy of the town to provide a work
environment free from any and all forms of sexual harassment. Such harassment
should be understood to include the use of sexually suggestive or demeaning
language, as well as unwelcome sexual advances or physical contact. Employees
who believe they are being subjected to sexual harassment are encouraged to
immediately contact their supervisor or the President of the Town Council. If
complaint toward a Town Council member, the employee is encouraged to
immediately contact the Town Attorney.
   (C)   Compensation. The town endeavors to provide compensation levels
adequate to attract and retain highly qualified employees and intend to base
increases in pay on the employee’s job performance.
   (D)   Employee development. At every level, each supervisor is responsible
for helping their employees reach their full potential. Supervisors should
discuss strengths and areas for improvement, provide assistance in planning for
future growth, and create opportunities for employees to learn new skills and
prepare for new responsibilities.
   (E)   Safety and health. The safety and health of the town employees are of
highest priority. No employee of the town is ever to be asked to violate safety
rules, and no departure from safety rules or safe work practices will be
tolerated, no matter how urgent or important the job. Such cases are treated
with an attitude of concern and understanding. The town provides avenues for
such an employee to seek appropriate help, although each employee remains
responsible for adequately performing his or her job.
   (F)   Obligations to customers. Privacy is a matter of trust between us and
our customers. We do not violate that trust by misusing information on
individual customers or by providing lists of our customers to others for
commercial or other purposes except as required by law or as approved by the
Town Council members.
   (G)   Purchasing. It is the policy of the town to purchase all needed
equipment, supplies and service on the basis of quality, utility and the price
offered by vendors. These factors being equal among bidders, the town selects
suppliers located within our service territory, with the state, within this
nation and worldwide, in that order.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.076 ENVIRONMENTAL CRIMES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Over the last several years, changes to environmental criminal laws
have broadened the scope of activities subject to criminal enforcement, and
have increased the severity of punishments that can be imposed upon offenders.
Criminal penalties may be imposed upon the town or the individual who actually
committed the wrongful act, depending upon the circumstances.
      (2)   Most environmental laws impose criminal liability upon a person who
knowingly violates the law. The “knowledge” required to convict may not require
a person to have actual knowledge that a law was broken. Sometimes, simply
having responsibility within a business that deals with regulated materials can
be enough to infer criminal knowledge. Knowledge can also be inferred where a
person deliberately closes his or her eyes to a problem. In other words, no
intent to violate a law may be necessary to incur criminal liability.
      (3)   If you have any doubt about the appropriateness of your proposed
actions or the actions of others regarding environmental activities, consult
the Attorney for the town.
   (B)   Recording, monitoring and reporting violations.
      (1)   Federal and state environmental statutes make it a crime to
knowingly make a false statement in, or omit material information from,
documents required to be submitted or filed under the law. Such documents
include permit applications and monitoring reports.
      (2)   It is also a criminal offense under several environmental laws to
fail to file a required notification or report, falsify or tamper with a
monitoring device. Penalties for these crimes can be significant: up to two
years’ imprisonment for a first-time offense (double for repeat offenses); and/
or a sizable fine.
   (C)   Violations arising from releases and spills.
      (1)   Failure to notify the appropriate authorities of an oil spill,
hazardous substance release or hazardous air pollutant release is made a crime
by several environmental laws. Complying with the reporting requirements
protects the person making the report from criminal prosecution for failure to
report the spill or release.
      (2)   Releasing oil or a hazardous pollutant or waste into the
environment (outside of permit limits) is a crime under most circumstance.
Furthermore, the knowing release of a hazardous pollutant, substance or waste,
which places another person in imminent danger of death or serious bodily
injury, is punishable by a sizable fine and/or up to 15 years imprisonment.
Negligent releases which place another person in imminent danger of death or
serious bodily injury are punishable by a time and/or up to one year
imprisonment.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.077 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   Maternity or paternity. An eligible employee under the Family Medical
Leave Act may take unpaid maternity or paternity leave in accordance with the
terms of said Act.
   (B)   Funeral leave. Full-time employee shall be entitled to a paid funeral
leave in conjunction with the day of the funeral in the event of the death of
an immediate family member. The length of the leave depends of the family
member as outlined below. In the event of a death in an employee’s immediate
family (employee’s parent, brother, sister, spouse or child), three consecutive
working days for the purpose of making necessary arrangements and attending the
funeral shall be received.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.078 SICK DAY.
   The town provides paid sick leave benefits to all eligible employees for
periods of temporary absence due to illnesses or injuries. Eligible employee
classifications are as follows:
   (A)   Full-time employees shall accrue sick leave benefits at the rate of
five days per year. The 12- month period begins when the employee starts to
earn sick leave benefits.
   (B)   Paid sick leave may be used in maximum increments of eight hours per
day and minimum increments of four hours per day.
   (C)   An eligible employee may use sick leave benefits for an absence due to
their own illness, injury or that of a child, parent or spouse of the employee.
   (D)   Employees who are unable to report to work due to illness or injury
shall notify their direct supervisor before the scheduled start of their
workday, if possible. The direct supervisor shall also be contacted on each
additional day of absence.
   (E)   Paid sick days are paid at the employee’s base pay rate at the time of
the sick day.
   (F)   Unused sick leave benefits may be forwarded to following year but not
exceed 30 days of accrued sick days. All unused sick days above the 30-day
accrued sick days will be forfeited.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.079 PERSONAL DAY.
   The town provides paid personal day benefits to all eligible employees.
Eligible employee classifications are as follows:
   (A)   Full-time employees shall be eligible for three personal days each
year. The 12-month period begins when the employee starts to earn personal day
benefits.
   (B)   Paid personal days may be used in maximum increments of eight hours
per day and minimum increments of four hours per day.
   (C)   Paid personal day, not sick days, shall be used for illness or
hospitalization of someone not living in your household (such as, parent,
sibling or grandchild).
   (D)   Paid sick days are paid at the employee’s base pay rate at the time of
the personal day.
   (E)   Personal day benefits may not be forwarded to following year. All
unused personal days will be forfeited December 31 each year.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.080 VACATION.
   (A)   The amount of paid vacation time employees receive each year increases
with the length of eligible employment as shown in the following schedule:
1 - 3 years of employment      10 vacation days per year
4 - 5 years of employment      12 vacation days per year
6 - 7 years of employment      13 vacation days per year
8 - 9 years of employment      14 vacation days per year
10 -11 years of employment     15 vacation days per year
12 - 13 years of employment    16 vacation days per year
14 - 15 years of employment    17 vacation days per year
16 - 17 years of employment    18 vacation days per year
18 - 19 years of employment    19 vacation days per year
20 years or more of employment 20 vacation days per year
 
   (B)   Full-time employees shall be eligible for vacation days each year. The
12-month period begins when the employee starts to earn vacation benefits.
   (C)   Paid vacation day may be used in maximum increments of eight hours per
day and minimum increments of four hours per day.
   (D)   Paid vacation days are paid at the employee’s base pay rate at the
time of the vacation day.
   (E)   Vacation day benefits may not be forwarded to following year. All
unused vacation days will be forfeited December 31 each year.
   (F)   Paid vacation days shall not be taken before earned. Negative balances
are not allowed and will be considered unpaid leave.
   (G)   No two full-time employees may have scheduled vacation at the same
time.
   (H)   If any employee passes away with eligible vacation days before
receiving payment for any/all vacation days, in the year of death, the town
will pay the equivalent of any such remaining vacation amount to the applicable
survivor.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.081 MEAL/REST BREAKS.
   (A)   All employees working a minimum of six hours shall be provided with 30
minute for meal/rest break per shift.
   (B)   Supervisors shall schedule employee breaks to accommodate operating
requirements.
   (C)   No compensation is given for 30-minute meal/rest breaks.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.082 HOLIDAYS.
   The town shall observe the following holidays:
   (A)   Paid holidays.
      (1)   The following are paid holidays: 
         (a)   New Year’s Day;
         (b)   Martin Luther King Day;
         (c)   President’s Day;
         (d)   Good Friday;
         (e)   Memorial Day;
         (f)   Independence Day;
         (g)   Labor Day;
         (h)   Columbus Day;
         (i)   Veteran’s Day;
         (j)   Thanksgiving Day; and
         (k)   Christmas Day.
      (2)   All employees covered by this policy shall receive pay based on
hours of their average work day up to eight hours for each of the holidays
listed above.
      (3)   Holiday must fall on each employee’s regularly scheduled work day.
      (4)   Part-time park employees are not eligible for paid holidays.
   (B)   Unpaid holidays.
      (1)   The following are unpaid holidays: 
         (a)   Primary Election Day;
         (b)   General Election Day;
         (c)   Day after Thanksgiving;
         (d)   Christmas Eve; and
         (e)   New Year’s Eve.
      (2)   The town hall will be closed these days but are unpaid holidays.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. 2020-1, passed 12-17-2019; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.083 PAYROLL.
   (A)   Eligibility.
      (1)   This policy shall apply to all employees, in all departments of the
town.
      (2)   Employees shall be paid in accordance with the salary ordinance.
      (3)   Federal, state and social security payroll deductions are
mandatory.
      (4)   Employees shall turn in time sheets to town hall by 9:00 a.m. on
day indicated.
      (5)   If time sheet is not received on time, employee may have to wait
until next pay day to receive pay.
      (6)   No partial or advance pay will be issued before pay day to active
employees without permission from Town Council.
      (7)   Town Council members shall receive one pay per month. Park
Authority members and Park Advisors shall be paid one time per quarter.
      (8)   Compensation for employees shall be paid on the 15th and the last
working day of the month. If a pay day falls on a weekend, a holiday or other
day, the town hall is closed, compensation shall be paid on the last working
day before the regularly scheduled pay day. No partial or advance compensation
will paid to an active employee before a regularly scheduled pay day except as
provided for in this section.
   (B)   Overtime. All overtime shall be recorded on weekly time sheets. The
date, time and job requiring overtime shall be recorded for all town employees
with the exception of salaried employees.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. 2020-1, passed 12-17-2019; Ord. 2020-2, passed 1-7-
2020; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.084 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Termination of employment is an inevitable part of personnel activity
and many of the reasons for the termination are routine. Below are examples of
some of the most common circumstances under which employment is terminated:
      (1)   Resignation: voluntary employment termination initiated by an
employee;
      (2)   Layoff: involuntary employment termination initiated by the town
for non-disciplinary reasons; or
      (3)   Retirement: voluntary employment termination initiated by the
employee meeting age, length of employment or any other criteria for retirement
from the town.
   (B)   Since employment with the town is based on mutual consent, both the
employee and the town have the right to terminate employment at will, with or
without cause, at any time.
   (C)   Employee benefits may be affected by employment termination in the
following manner:
      (1)   One hundred percent accrued vacation days may be paid to employees
who retire, resign or get laid off.
      (2)   One hundred percent accrued personal days may be paid to employees
who retire, resign or get laid off.
      (3)   Twenty-five percent of accrued sick days may be paid to employees
who retire, resign or get laid off.
      (4)   No benefits shall be paid to an employee who is discharged.
      (5)   Employee will be notified in writing on the benefits they may
continue, if any. They will also be notified of the terms, conditions and
limitations of such continuance.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.085 EMPLOYEE EDUCATION.
   (A)   The town believes that continuing education benefits both the employee
and the town. If an employee is required by law to obtain continuing education
units (CEU) to maintain a license or licenses, the town will pay expenses to
send the employee to meetings, classes and seminars to maintain the level of
CEU required.
   (B)   The meeting, classes and seminars the employee attends will be at the
discretion of the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.086 MILEAGE.
   Mileage shall be paid in accordance with the travel ordinance. Request for
mileage must be filed on a state-approved mileage claim. All mileage must be
approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.087 WHAT CONSTITUTES FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT.
   Employees consistently working 36 to 40 hours per week are considered full-
time employees.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
§ 37.088 EXCEPTIONS TO POLICY.
   Any exceptions to the above policy shall be approved by the Town Council.
Policy may be changed at any given time the Town Council sees necessary with
notice to all employees.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2005; Ord. passed 1-21-2020)
CHAPTER 38: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
38.01   Establishment
   
38.02   Police Reserve Officers
   
38.03   Police Donation Fund
   
38.04   Police Continuing Education Fund
   
38.05   Police fee schedule
§ 38.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Office of the Town Marshal is hereby established as the Lynnville Police
Department. Per I.C. 36-5-3-7, the Town Marshal is the Chief Police Officer of
the Department.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 38.02 POLICE RESERVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is authorized to appoint up to four reserve police
officers to the Lynnville Police Department.
   (B)   Police Reserve Officers shall be known as Reserve Deputy Marshals.
   (C)   Police Reserve Officers shall receive no compensation except for that
specified in I.C. 36-8-3 which may be decided on by the Town Council on a case-
by-case basis.
   (D)   Police Reserve Officers must complete the required pre-basic course of
instruction as defined by the Indiana Law Enforcement Training Board and will
be sworn in following the successful completion of the course.
   (E)   Police Reserve Officers must maintain all required training and in-
service training as specified by the Indiana Law Enforcement Training Board.
   (F)   No Police Reserve Officer shall be assigned alone to patrol duties
until the completion of a specified course of on-the-job field training and
only after being deemed qualified by the Town Marshal.
   (G)   Police Reserves Officers serve at the pleasure of the Town Marshal and
be dismissed or administratively separated from volunteer employment with the
town by the Town Council or the Town Marshal.
   (H)   Police Reserve Officers must be a minimum of 21 years old with a valid
Indiana Driver's License, good moral character, no felony arrests, and no Class
A misdemeanor arrests in the previous ten years.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 38.03 POLICE DONATION FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Lynnville Police Department Gift Fund. There is hereby
established a “Lynnville Police Department Gift Fund.”
   (B)   Deposits into Lynnville Police Department Gift Fund. When the town or
Town Police Department receives gifts, donations and/or subsidies for Police
Department purposes, the funds shall be deposited into the Lynnville Police
Department Gift Fund.
   (C)   Fund purpose. Money in the fund may be used for any legal or corporate
purpose of the Town Police Department consistent with the purposes specified by
the grantor of such gift, donation and/or subsidy, if any.
   (D)   Prohibited use. The Lynnville Police Department Gift Fund may not be
used to reduce the town's maximum or actual property tax levy.
   (E)   Administration of fund. The Lynnville Police Department Gift Fund
established under this section shall be administered by the Clerk-Treasurer and
the expenses of administering the fund, if any, shall be paid from money in the
fund. Money in the fund not currently needed to meet the obligations of the
fund may be invested in the same manner as other public funds may be invested.
Interest that accrues from these investments shall be deposited in the fund.
Money in the fund at the end of the fiscal year shall not revert to the town's
general fund.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 38.04 LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTINUING EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   There is established a fund known as the Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund for the purpose of purchases made by the town's Police
Department for equipment, supplies, continuing education, and law enforcement
training for the Police Department.
   (B)   This fund shall be comprised of fees collected by the Police
Department from the following activities:
      (1)   Vehicle inspections/title checks;
      (2)   Accident reports;
      (3)   Police reports;
      (4)   Criminal background checks;
      (5)   Vehicle towing fee's;
   (C)   Before any money from this fund is spent, the sum must first be
appropriated according to state statute.
   (D)   The funds accumulated in the Local Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund established shall be used for the purpose of continuing
education and training of law enforcement officers employed by the town. All
expenditures must comply with the terms and provisions of the statute by the
authority of which the fund is created and must be approved by the Town
Council.
   (E)   The funds placed in the Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education
Fund may not be withdrawn except for the purposes set forth herein so long as
this section remains in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 38.05 POLICE FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The funds collected by the Police Department for services (criminal
history/background checks, fingerprinting, accident/crash reports, and vehicle
releases) shall be allocated as follows:
      (1)   Fees for all reports, inspections, or background checks shall go to
the Police Department's
Continuing Education Fund.
      (2)   Fees for all vehicle tow/releases shall be divided evenly between
the General Fund and the Police Department Continuing Education Fund.
   (B)   Fee schedule.
 
Background check                                $20
Vehicle crash report                            $12
Police report                                   $10
Vehicle inspection                              $5
Vehicle tow/release fee (nuisance vehicle only) $50
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 3-5-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   WASTEWATER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.02   Control of the municipally owned utilities
   
50.03   Removal of the municipally owned water utility from the jurisdiction of
the State Utility Regulatory Commission
§ 50.01   DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect that:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d)
§ 50.02 CONTROL OF THE MUNICIPALLY OWNED UTILITIES.
   (A)   The control of the town sewage works and the town waterworks system,
as of the date of passage of this section, is in the members of the municipal
legislative body, the Town Council, as provided for in I.C. 8-1.5-3 et seq.
   (B)   The Town Council shall have all of the powers and duties as provided
for in I.C. 8-1.5-3-4, to include the determination of who is responsible for
the actual billing and collection of fees generated from the town’s municipally
owned utilities and who shall actually bill, collect and maintain individual
customer accounts for the funds received from the municipally owned utilities.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 9-20-2004)
§ 50.03 REMOVAL OF THE MUNICIPALLY OWNED WATER UTILITY FROM THE JURISDICTION OF
THE STATE UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The municipally owned water utility of the town is removed from the
jurisdiction of the State Utility Regulatory Commission for the approval of
rates and charges and of the issuance of stock, bonds, notes or other evidence
of indebtedness.
(Ord. 7-88, passed 8-16-1988)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Removing and resetting water meters
   
51.02   Cross-connection control and backflow of contaminants
Rates and Charges
   
51.15   Rates and charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 REMOVING AND RESETTING WATER METERS.
   The cost of removing and resetting any water meters necessitated by any
public improvement project, state, county or municipal, shall be borne by the
owner whose property is served by the meter so being moved.
(Res. 1, passed - -)
§ 51.02 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL AND BACKFLOW OF CONTAMINANTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the Town
of Lynnville water system, and the other, water from a private source, water of
unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals whereby there may
be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the
pressure differential between the two systems.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the Town of Lynnville may enter the supply or distribution system or said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Lynnville Town Council and by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management in accordance with 327 IAC 8-10.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Veolia Water North America-Central, LLC to
cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water
system where cross-connections with the public water system are deemed
possible. The frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential
health hazards involved shall be established by the Veolia Water North America-
Central, LLC.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the Veolia
Water North America-Central, LLC shall have the right to request entry at any
reasonable time to examine the property served by a connection to the public
water system of the Town of Lynnville for cross-connections. On request, the
owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so served shall furnish to the
inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system or
systems on such property. The refusal of access or refusal of requested
pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-
connections.
   (E)   The Lynnville Town Council is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the Lynnville Town Council that a cross-connection
or any emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer's office of the Town of Lynnville and delivered to the consumer's
premises, service may be immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an
opportunity for hearing within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids; all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, and laboratories; and all other
hazardous users shall install and maintain a reduced pressure principal
backflow preventer in the main water line serving each building on the
premises. The backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible
location not subject to flooding or freezing.
   (H)   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level.
   (I)   This section does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, IDEM Rule
327, IAC 8-10 or §
52.18, but is supplementary to them.
   (J)   That if, in the judgement of the Superintendent of Water, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water consumer to
install such an approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his
own expensed, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner
approved by the Superintendent of Water and shall have inspections and tests
made of such approved devices as required by the Superintendent of Water and in
accordance with IDEM Rule 327 and IAC 8-10.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 8-4-2020)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.15 RATES AND CHARGES.
   There shall be and there are hereby established for the use of and the
service rendered by the water works system of the town, the following rates and
charges, based on the use of water supplied by said water works system:
   (A)   User. There shall be one user per meter who shall be billed in
accordance with this section.
   (B)   Monthly base rate.
Monthly Base Rate
Meter Size Monthly Rate
Monthly Base Rate
Meter Size       Monthly Rate
5/8" water meter $11.40
3/4" water meter 15.54
1" water meter   26.88
2" water meter   106.28
3" water meter   238.25
4" water meter   413.53
6" water meter   939.35
In addition to the monthly base rate, each user shall pay $8.31 per 1,000
gallons of water used
 
   (C)   Truck trade rate. Purchasers of water from the truck trade facility
shall pay the rate of $1 per 100 gallons of water.
   (D)   Hydrant rental. The town shall pay the water utility the sum of
$2,500, twice a year, for each fire hydrant connected to the town water
utility.
   (E)   Collection or deferred payment charges.
      (1)   All bills for water service shall be rendered monthly and if not
paid within ten days from due date thereof as staled in such bills, shall be
subject to a collection or deferred payment charge of 10% on the first $3 and
3% on the excess over $3. If the bill is not paid within 50 days from due date,
the service shall be disconnected. If the bill has been on the delinquent list
three or more times in the previous 12-month period, then if the bill is not
paid within 30 days of the due date, the service shall be disconnected.
      (2)   If payment is made by check and the check is returned by the
financial institution upon which the check is drawn marked insufficient funds,
the issuer shall make full payment in cash, by cashier’s check, or by money
order, within ten days from the date of notice by the town. If such payment is
not made within the ten days, payment in the amount of the check, together with
a service charge, not to exceed the greater of $27.50 or 5% of the amount of
the check, (but not more than $250) shall be paid within 30 days of notice, if
payment is not made within 30 days from the date of notice, the service shall
be disconnected.
   (F)   Connection; disconnection.
      (1)   Before any person may connect to the water utility they shall first
obtain approval from the Town Council. All costs incurred for the connection
shall be paid by the applicant requesting to connect to the water utility.
Connection shall be supervised by the water utility operator. The inspection
fee shall be $100.
      (2)   No water service shall be turned on for any user by any person or
business, except the water operator, unless the person or business is
authorized by the town to perform this service.
      (3)   No water service shall be turned on for any user where the plumbing
does not comply with any applicable ordinances of the county; provided the
water service may be turned on for construction work in unfinished structures.
   (G)   Damages. Except as authorized by the water utility, no person shall
tamper with, alter, or damage any part of the water supply system, meters or
other equipment or property of the water utility, utility.
   (H)   Notice. Any notice provided for in this section shall be sent to the
user at the address on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (I)   Shut-off and turn-on charges. There shall be a charge of $25 for shut-
off and turn-on made at the request of the user. There shall be a charge of $25
for shut-off after shut-off for non-payment of delinquency in the payment of a
bill. There shall be a charge of $25 for turn-on after shut-off for non-
payment or delinquency in the payment of the bill, and in addition, before
turn-on all delinquent charges then due shall be paid.
   (J)   Meter deposits.
      (1)   Home owners. 
         (a)   An application for water service shall be completed for each
resident requesting service.
         (b)   A meter deposit of $100 shall be required for each service
address.
         (c)   The water utility has the right to refuse to provide service to
any applicant indebted to it for service rendered by it, or the sewer utility,
at any location in the town prior to making application, until such
indebtedness is paid in full.
         (d)   A deposit shall not be collected from any water user who does
not presently have one, so long as the water user has a good payment history
and began using the waterworks system prior to January 1, 2008. The water
deposit shall be refunded to any water user less any amount due upon
termination of the water service as shown on the final bill. If the deposit is
insufficient to pay the amount shown on the final bill, the user remains
responsible for payment of the deficiency. If a deposit is unclaimed for more
than one year following the payment of the final bill by the water user, then
it shall be transferred to the operating fund.
      (2)   Landlords. Rental properties with tenants responsible for their own
utility bills shall pay a deposit of $100 and a deposit by the landlord of $100
is required on each service address before water service will be provided. The
landlord meter deposit remains on the service address as long as the property
at the service address is owned by the landlord. The landlord deposit shall
transfer with each new tenant. Service will not be provided for a new tenant
until any delinquent balances are paid in full and the new tenant has paid the
deposit. It shall be the responsibility of the landlord to keep all information
related to billing updated. The landlord’s deposit shall be returned to the
landlord if the property is sold or transferred to a new owner, less the amount
of the final bill.
(Ord. 3-1965, passed 10-2-1965; Ord. 5-1-1985, passed 5-21-1985; Ord. 2-89,
passed - -1989; Ord. 1-90, passed - -1990; Ord. 1990-5, passed 4-18-1990; Ord.
1995-3, passed 6-19-1995; Ord. 2004-13, passed 9-20-2004; Ord. 2004-20, passed
- -2004; Ord. 2005-1, passed 2-15-2005; Ord. 2006-11, passed 7-5-2006; Ord.
2006-14, passed 9-5-2006; Ord. 2007-11, passed 8-7-2007; Ord. 2008-2, passed 7-
1-2008; Ord. 2009-3, passed 1-5-2010; Ord. 2011-2, passed 9-6-2011; Ord. 2017-
10, passed 12-19-2017; Ord. 2020-3, passed 2-18-2020; Ord. 2023-3, passed 4-18-
2023; Ord. 2023, passed - -2024; Ord. 2024-10, passed 8-20-2024)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Regulations for connections
Sewer Connections
   
52.15   Definitions
   
52.16   Unlawful deposits and discharges; generally
   
52.17   Private sewage disposal systems
   
52.18   Uncovering or making connections
   
52.19   Discharges
   
52.20   Pretreatment of industrial wastes
   
52.21   Plans, specifications and other information
   
52.22   Unpolluted water
   
52.23   Industrial cooling water
   
52.24   Information on wastewater flow characteristics
   
52.25   Strength of wastewaters
   
52.26   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps
   
52.27   Users of treatment works
   
52.28   State and federal requirements
   
52.29   Breaking, damaging or tampering with structures, appurtenances or
equipment
   
52.30   Authorized personnel to enter premises
Rates and Charges
   
52.45   Definitions
   
52.46   Charges; generally
   
52.47   Specific charges
   
52.48   Quantity of water discharged
   
52.49   Charges based on volume, strength and character
   
52.50   Connection charge
   
52.51   Billing
   
52.52   Connection charge
   
52.53   Study
   
52.54   Enforcement of by-laws and regulations
   
52.55   Effective date
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 REGULATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect, or permit the
connection of, or authorize the connection of any service line to a sanitary
sewer main or lateral within the town without obtaining a sanitary sewer
connection permit from the town.
   (B)   The owner of any real estate who desires a sanitary sewer connection
permit shall submit an application therefor on forms provided by the town and
shall pay a fee in the amount of $10 for each connection. The application shall
be in writing, shall be signed and verified by the owner of the property which
is to be connected to the sanitary sewer system, and shall contain such
information as the town shall, from time to time, require.
   (C)   All sanitary sewer connections shall be made in conformity with the
following regulations.
      (1)   Clay pipe.
         (a)   All such connections shall be made with six-inch PVC, ASTM 3034,
either SDR-35 or SDR-2S sewer pipe, which pipe and fittings shall be so marked
so as to permit inspection.
         (b)   All such connections shall be made without breaking, punching,
hammering, drilling or wedging the existing clay plug/disc from the existing
six-inch house service lateral.
         (c)   A clay pipe “snapper” shall be used to remove the bell end with
the clay plug/disc as one unit.
         (d)   The cut shall be even and uniform throughout the entire
circumference of the six-inch pipe lateral.
         (e)   All couplings shall be flexible with two stainless steel bands.
      (2)   Plastic pipe.
         (a)   All such connections shall be made with six-inch PVC, ASTM 3034,
either SDR-35 or SDR-26 sewer pipe, which pipe and fittings shall be so marked
so as to permit inspection.
         (b)   All such connections shall be made without breaking, punching,
hammering, drilling or wedging the existing plastic cap from the existing six-
inch house service lateral.
         (c)   A saw shall be used to remove the cap off the end of the plastic
pipe without damaging the rest of the pipe.
         (d)   The cut shall be even and uniform throughout the entire
circumference of the six-inch pipe lateral.
         (e)   All connections to the pipe lateral shall be made with a solvent
welded (glued) fitting. The glue shall be of the type recommended by the pipe
manufacturer.
   (D)   The trench in which the pipe is set and the connections are made shall
be left open for inspection by the town, and approval of such connection shall
be obtained before the backfilling of the sewer trench may proceed.
(Ord. 1-1-1982, passed 7-20-1982; Ord. 1993-4, passed 9-1-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
SEWER CONNECTIONS
§ 52.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or other
clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.
      (1)   Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform
bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the
treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact does remove
such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE is not
subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in the order
of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not
considered SUBSTANTIAL.
      (2)   Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered
COMPATIBLE include:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Total organic carbon;
         (c)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
         (d)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
         (e)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
discharges from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross- connections
from storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface
run-off, street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and is
distinguished from, infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of Pub. L. No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(a); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from, that treatment works.
    MAY. Is permissive.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the national pollutant discharge
elimination system for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of Pub. L. No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Has the same meaning as defined in §
52.45.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group discharging any wastewater to WWTW.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions,
(including polluted cooling water). The three most common types of sewage are
as follows.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension, in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. L. No. 92-500, being
33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.16 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS AND DISCHARGES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water,
roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility if such
removal is cost-effective and is in the best interest of all users of those
facilities.
   (C)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, sub-surface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made unless there is
capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the
sewage treatment plant including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town, any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (G)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to
do so, provided that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.16(G), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 UNCOVERING OR MAKING CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the said town. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgement of the Inspector. A permit
and inspection fee of $10 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit
and $25 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can lie constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, material of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface run-off or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the said
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the said
Inspector or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said town.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears
likely in the opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
      (2)   The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);
         (b)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150°F (0 and 65°C);
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
         (i)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined in §
52.15.
         (j)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (C)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (B) above, and which in the
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life, or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase
in discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain
prior approval for discharges;
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage as defined;
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works; or
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (D)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (E)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times. Agents of the town, the state water pollution control agencies
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing.
   (F)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole, except for applications for NPDES permits and
report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the USEPA published in 38 Fed. Reg. 20758 (Oct. 16,
1973) and any subsequent revisions subject to approval by the town. In the
event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property. (The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.)
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with §§
52.45 through
52.55.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.20 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) and published in the Federal Register on November 8, 1973 (40 C.F.R.
part 128), and Federal Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants, published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973 (40 C.F.R.
part 403), in addition to any more stringent requirements established by the
town, and any subsequent state or federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.21 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS AND OTHER INFORMATION.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing, is granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
owner at his or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
town to determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary report of the
character of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.22 UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
Where a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural sewer is not available, such
unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval
by the town.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.23 INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
52.22.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.24 INFORMATION ON WASTEWATER FLOW CHARACTERISTICS.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows characteristics.
Such measurements, tests and analysis shall be made at the users’ expense. If
made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the town.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.25 STRENGTH OF WASTEWATERS.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in the §§ 52.45 through 52.55 of this chapter, from
samples taken at the aforementioned structure at any period of time and of such
duration and in such manner as the town may elect, or, at any place mutually
agreed upon between the user and the town. Appropriate charges for sampling and
analysis may be assessed to the user at the option of the town. The results of
routine sampling and analysis by the user may also be used, for determination
of charges after verification by the town.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.26 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS OR TRAPS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand and
other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors or trap will not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperatures and shall be substantial construction, be gas
tight, water tight, and equipped with easily removable covers. Where installed,
all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained by the owner
at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.27 USERS OF TREATMENT WORKS.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.28 STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this subchapter and limits set herein shall comply with
any applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be in
effect.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.29 BREAKING, DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH STRUCTURES, APPURTENANCES OR
EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.30 AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL TO ENTER PREMISES.
   (A)   The Town Manager, Superintendent, Inspector, and other duly authorized
employees of the Town of Lynnville bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private property for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing
pertinent to the discharge of sewage and infiltration/inflow into the public
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Manager is authorized to obtain information concerning
industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the public sewer. The business may withhold information considered
a trade secret. The business must establish that the revelation to the public
of the information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private property referred to in
division (A) above, the Town Manager, Superintendent, Inspector, and other duly
authorized employees of the Town of Lynnville shall observe all safety
precautions applicable to the property, and the person shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the Town of Lynnville employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
person and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such
may be caused by the negligence and failure of the person to maintain safe
conditions.
   (D)   The Town Manager, Superintendent, Inspector, and other duly authorized
employees of the Town of Lynnville shall have the right to set up on a person's
property such devices as are necessary to conduct measurement, testing,
sampling and/or metering of the person's discharge of sewage and infiltration/
inflow into the public sewer.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
property to be inspected/sampled shall be promptly removed by the person at the
written or verbal request of the Town Manager or Inspector and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the person.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Town Manager or Inspector access
to the person's property shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (G)   If the Town Manager or Inspector have been refused access to private
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is need to
inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
designed to verify compliance with this chapter, then the Attorney for the Town
of Lynnville may seek a search warrant from the Warrick County Courts. The
request by the Town of Lynnville shall specify what may be searched for and/or
seized and the specific location to be searched. Such warrant shall be served
at reasonable hours by the Town Manager or Inspector in the company of a
uniformed police officer. In the event of an extreme emergency affecting public
health and safety, inspection may be made without the issuance of a warrant.
(Ord. 2023-8, passed 6-20-2023)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Town Council of the Town of Lynnville, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting in its behalf.
   BOD (OR BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The same meaning as defined in §
52.15.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, shall mean wastewater or
sewage having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 200 mg/l; and
         (b)   SS not more than 240 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. The same
meaning as defined in §
52.15.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Includes all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on
a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
sewage works equipment to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in §
52.15.
   SEWER INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment
to this subchapter, which provides for recovery from industrial users of the
sewage works of a portion of the federal grant amount allocable to the
construction of sewage facilities for treating industrial waste pursuant to §
204(b) of Pub. L. No. 95-217, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and 40 C.F.R.
part 300.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers, as
codified in §§ 52.15 through 52.30.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SS (OR SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Has the same meaning as defined in §
52.15.
   TOWN. The Town of Lynnville, Indiana, acting by and through the Town
Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to § 204(b) of
Pub. L. No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental in the user
charge system and as industrial and nonindustrial in the industrial cost
recovery system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.46 CHARGES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user
and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load.
   (B)   User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User charges shall
be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
      (1)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
the United States Environmental Protection Agency, published in 43 Fed. Reg.
44022 (Sept. 27, 2978). Replacement costs, which are recovered through the
system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected service life of the
sewage works equipment.
      (2)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the
purposes of this subchapter, shall be as follows:
 
Class I
1. Residential
2. Commercial
3. Governmental
4. Institutional
5. Industrial
 
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.47 SPECIFIC CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by said sewage works, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of
the town.
   (B)   Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge
based on the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise
provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage
service, the water meters shall be read monthly and the users shall be billed
each month (or period equaling a month).
      (2)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates and
charges shall be determined shall be as follows:
All Class I Users       
1) Treatment rate      $12.84 per 1,000 gallons of usage
Plus                    
2) Base rate:           
Monthly Base Rate
Monthly Base Charge  Monthly Rate
5/8 in. water meter    $26.97
3/4 in. water meter    $35.22
1 in. water meter      $54.53
1-1/4 in. water meter  $84.52
1-1/2in. water meter   $117.40
2 in. water meter      $194.77
3 in. water meter      $343.37
4 in. water meter      $586.44
6 in. water meter      $1,326.89
 
   (B)   (1)   For residential users of the sewage works that are not metered
water users or for whom accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly
charge shall be as follows:
 
Monthly Base Charge Monthly Rate
5/8 in. water meter    $75.78
 
      (2)   Monthly base charge is based on 3,800 gallons per month average
residential usage.
      (3)   Nonresidential unmetered users shall be charged a rate based upon
estimated monthly usage to be determined by town officials on an individual
basis.
   (C)   For the service rendered to the town, said town shall be subject to
the same rates and charges hereinabove provided, or to charges and rates
established in harmony therewith.
   (D)   (1)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes,
the town shall charge the user $25 per sample.
      (2)   This charge will be reviewed and revised on the same basis as all
other rates and charges in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 2-9-1981; Ord. 1987-1-5, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 1-89,
passed 4-18-1989; Ord. 1990-5-1, passed 1-3-1990; Ord. 1996-2, passed 6-19-
1996; Ord. 2004-19, passed - -2004; Ord. 2005-2, passed 2-15-2005; Ord. 2006-
10, passed 7-5-2006; Ord. 2007-9, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 2012-5, passed 10-30-
2012; Ord. 2018-5, passed 11-7-2018; Ord. 2023-4, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 52.48 QUANTITY OF WATER DISCHARGED.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; further, as
is hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that such
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewerage system.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his
or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring
devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the
town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   There shall be one user per one meter for residential lots, parcels of
real estate or buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids
into the town’s sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, are
users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter,
then in each such case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall
be averaged for each user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges
shall apply to each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate
or buildings served through the single water meter.
   (E)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewerage system, either directly or
indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a
single water meter, then in such case, billing shall be for a single service in
the manner set out elsewhere herein, except that the minimum bill shall not be
less than the number of such dwelling units times $4.50 per month. In the case
of mobile home courts, the number of dwelling units shall be computed and
interpreted as the total number of mobile home spaces available for rent plus
any other dwelling units served through the meter. A dwelling unit shall be
interpreted as a room or rooms or any other space or spaces in which cooking
facilities are provided.
   (F)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 25,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.49 CHARGES BASED ON VOLUME, STRENGTH AND CHARACTER.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger than
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
The town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all
sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the sanitary
sewage system in such manner and by such method as the town may deem
practicable in the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the
case, in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central
sampling point available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended solids in
excess of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating
stronger than normal domestic waste shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.3272 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.3489 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as
written by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance with
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, Regulation
40 C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973.
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 2-9-1981; Ord. 1987-1-5, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 1-89,
passed 4-18-1989; Ord. 1990-5-1, passed 1-3-1990; Ord. 1996-2, passed 6-19-
1996; Ord. 2023-4, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 52.50 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   The charges for permit, inspection and capacity charges are as follows.
   (A)   Connection inspection fees. The permit and inspection fee for a
private sewage disposal system shall be $200. All applications for a permit for
such private systems shall be on forms provided by the town.
   (B)   Classes of connection fees. The classes of connection fees are the
user classes a defined in §
52.45, as follows:
      (1)   Residential;
      (2)   Commercial;
      (3)   Institutional;
      (4)   Governmental; and
      (5)   Industrial.
   (C)   Connection fees.
      (1)   Residential connection fee.
         (a)   For the privilege of making a sewer connection from any single-
family residence to an existing sanitary sewer suitable for use as a lateral
sewer by said single-family residence, the connection fee is $2,000. The charge
for said sewer connection shall be paid in full to the Town Sewer Department at
the time the application for connection to the sewage works is approved.
         (b)   Multi-family units shall be $2,000 per unit (for each dwelling
unit).
         (c)   Mobile home parks shall be $1,500 per lot.
         (d)   Individual mobile homes on residential lots will be treated as
single-family residences and shall be $2,000.
      (2)   Commercial, institutional and governmental connection fee. The
connection fee for a commercial, institutional and governmental connection
shall be calculated as follows.
         (a)   Existing structures. Changes in use of existing structures that
do not require new construction will not materially change the utilization of
plant capacity; therefore, a transfer fee of $50 for commercial business to
cover changing billing records will be assessed.
         (b)   New structures. Any new structure, addition to an existing
structure, or demolition and reconstruction of a structure would require the
payment of a connection fee. The list of charges is as follows:
 
Commercial    $1.90 per square foot
Governmental  $2,000
              Industrial connection fees shall be by special permit and shall
Industrial    be based upon the strength of sewage as determined by the Town
              Council
Institutional $2,000
 
   (D)   Indirect sewer connection fee. Where sewers may hereinafter be
constructed by and at the sole cost of a subdivision proprietor or contractor
who desires to connect said sewer to the town sewer works, a connection fee in
the amount of $1,500 per single-family residential connection shall be charged
for making such connection in such platted subdivision. This indirect
connection fee shall be in effect for a five-year period only, from and after
the date the Town Council accepts the sewer, or a portion thereof, from the
developer or contractor.
   (E)   Cost. If the cost of actual cost of construction is larger than the
connection fee provided for hereinabove, then the connection fee shall be the
actual cost of construction.
   (F)   User responsibility. The user shall be responsible for the care,
upkeep and maintenance of the sewer line from the tap to the lot, parcel of
real estate or building connecting to the sewage works.
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 2-9-1981; Ord. 2006-5, passed 1-3-2006; Ord. 2007-05,
passed 5-1-2007; Ord. 2017-7, passed 8-15-2017)
§ 52.51 BILLING.
   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (C)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
or charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of
the bill.
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.52 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   In order to produce an amount sufficient to meet the interest on the revenue
bonds, and other expenses, payable prior to the completion of the works, after
the contract for construction of sewer system has been let and actual work
commenced thereunder, the owners of each and every lot, parcel of real estate
or building to be connected with the town’s sanitary sewage system, as a result
of construction of said works, shall pay, each month $8.25 for each such
building to be connected. Beginning with the first month after the sanitary
sewers are available for connection and use to any lot, parcel of real estate
or building, the full rates and charges shall become effective for such lot,
parcel of real estate or building; but in any event, said full rates and
charges shall become effective no later than January 1, 1982 so that billings
for full rates and charges shall be rendered no later than January 1, 1982.
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.53 STUDY.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation,
following the date on which this subchapter goes into effect. Such study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements to the waste
treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said studies shall be
conducted by officers or employees of the town, or by a firm of certified
public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers which firms shall have
experience in such studies, or by such combination of officers, employees,
certified public accountants or engineers as the town shall determine to be
best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.54 ENFORCEMENT OF BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewerage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage system,
and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and
charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of said town, or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the national pollution discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit
issued to the sewage works.
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.55 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The rates and charges as herein set forth shall become effective on the
first full billing period occurring after February 9, 1981.
(Ord. 2-1981, passed 2-9-1981)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
52.01 shall be deemed guilty of a Class C infraction and shall be subject to
punishment as provided in I.C. 22-12-8-2. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.15 through
52.30, except §
52.30, shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The violator shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, not to exceed 90 days, permanently cease and correct all
violations to include, without limitation, any violation of §
52.18(H) of this chapter, by removing any connection of roof down spouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface run-off
or groundwater from the violator's property to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to public sanitary
sewer.
      (2)   Any person who continues any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be liable to the town for the civil
penalty provided for in this section.
      (3)   Any person who refuses to comply with §
52.30 of this chapter, upon being orally requested to do so by the Town Manager
or Inspector, shall be considered in violation of this chapter, without the
necessity for further notification.
      (4)   A person who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision
of §§
52.15 through
52.30 shall be liable to the town for a maximum civil penalty of $2,500 but not
less than $100 per violation per day.
      (5)   The town may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the town.
      (6)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall
consider all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation,
any economic benefit gained through the person's violation, corrective actions
by the person, the compliance history of the person, and any other factor as
justice requires.
      (7)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a person.
      (8)   This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for
personal injury or property damage available under the law of the State of
Indiana.
(Ord. 3-1981, passed 2-9-1981; Ord. 1-1-1982, passed 7-20-1982; Ord. 1993-4,
passed 9-1-1993; Ord. 2023-8, passed 6-20-2023)
CHAPTER 53: WASTEWATER
Section
   
53.01   Approving the wastewater master utility plan
   
53.02   Representative to sign and certify NPDES permits
§ 53.01 APPROVING THE WASTEWATER MASTER UTILITY PLAN.
   The town has reviewed the final document of the town wastewater utility
master plan and hereby approves that document, contingent upon comments and
approval received from the State Office of Community and Rural Affairs. The
town will fully consider all comments and feedback received from the State
Office of Community and Rural Affairs and will direct its consultant to provide
amended copies of this plan reflecting all said comments.
(Res. 2015-1, passed 8-18-2015; Res. 2015-2, passed 11-3-2015)
§ 53.02 REPRESENTATIVE TO SIGN AND CERTIFY NPDES PERMITS.
   The town’s wastewater treatment plant operator, having responsibility for
the overall operation of the wastewater treatment plant, is hereby made the
duly authorized representative of the Town Council President to sign and
certify all reports required by the NPDES permit and other information
requested by the Commissioner.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 2-6-2002)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Vehicle title inspections
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two
nontandem- wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and
that has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) of this definition, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in the state. The term includes an
alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate intersection.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, or an electric personal assistive mobility device as those terms are
defined in I.C. 9-13-2-56, 9-13-2-77, and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. pt. 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm tractor
or a motor driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2), an individual who operates a
vehicle, watercraft, off-road vehicle or snowmobile.
      (2)   For purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the same meaning set forth in
33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2), a person, other than
a lienholder that:
         (a)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
         (b)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a
vehicle, manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through
a lease or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
      (2)   For purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set forth in 33
CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include the
sidewalk, berm or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm or shoulder is used by
persons riding bicycles or other human powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
§ 70.02 VEHICLE TITLE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a $5 fee for any vehicle title inspection made
by the Town Marshal, pursuant to I.C. 9-17-2-12. Such fee shall be payable by
the person requesting such inspection, and it shall be paid at the time the
inspection is made. Upon payment of such fee, the Town Marshal shall issue a
receipt therefor.
   (B)   In the event that arrangements are made for an inspection other than
at the Town Hall, and in the event that either the vehicle to be inspected or
the person requesting such inspection is unavailable at the time and place
agreed upon for the inspection, then the fee shall nonetheless be payable
whether or not the inspection is completed. An additional $5 fee shall be
payable at any subsequent time at which the inspection is actually made.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to require that the Town Marshal
travel to any location outside of the corporate limits of the town to make any
such inspection, but the Town Marshal is authorized to so travel, in his or her
discretion.
   (D)   All fees collected pursuant to this section shall be payable to the
town, shall be delivered forthwith upon receipt to the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer, and shall be deposited in a vehicle inspection fund, said fund to be
used only for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. 1989-G-1, passed 2-21-1989)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.18 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic device,
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
   
71.04   Use of jake brakes
   
71.05   Overweight vehicles
Cruising
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Cruising prohibited
   
71.22   Posting of signs
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Prohibiting parking and use of motor vehicles on Tecumseh Trail, see §
72.05
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 USE OF JAKE BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use jake/engine compression brakes on
any vehicle in the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 7-8-2010) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate or
cause to be operated on any public street or alley within the corporate
boundaries and under the jurisdiction of the town, any motor vehicle or
combination of motor vehicles having a total gross weight, with load, of 20,000
pounds, during the period beginning February l, to and including April 30, each
year; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to a tractor-mobile
home rig or special tractor-mobile home rig as those terms are defined in I.C.
9-13-2-181 and I.C. 9-13-2-171 or to the operation of buses that are not more
than 45 feet in length on any segment of the primary system (as defined in I.C.
8-23-1-33) that was in existence on June 1, 1991.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate or
cause to be operated a tractor-mobile home rig or special tractor-mobile home
rig on the public streets and alleys within the corporate boundaries within the
town, unless such person, firm or corporation first secures a permit to operate
the same from the Town Council of said town or any person designated by the
Town Council to issue such permits.
   (C)   The Town Council, or any person designated by the Town Council shall
grant a permit to operate a tractor-mobile home rig or special tractor-mobile
home rig upon the public streets and alleys of said town to any person, firm or
corporation upon such conditions as it deems reasonably necessary for the
protection of such public streets and alleys and in this regard the Town
Council may require the furnishing of a bond in an amount which the Council
deems sufficient to indemnify the town for any damage to such public street or
alley.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 3- -1997) Penalty, see §
71.99
CRUISING
§ 71.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department, or other town, county or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.21 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic
control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a passenger in
a vehicle passing the same traffic control point within the next succeeding
four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.22 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.04 shall be fined not more than $150.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
71.05 shall be fined not less than $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 3- -1997; Ord. 2010-4, passed 7-8-2010)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
   
72.05   Parking and use of motor vehicles on the Tecumseh Trail
   
72.06   Prohibiting parking on alleys
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks or painting; and no person shall stop, stand or
park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-18.5-8, 9-18.5-18 or the laws of another
state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.05 PARKING AND THE USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON THE TECUMSEH TRAIL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is self-propelled, to include without
limitation, automobiles, vans, trucks, SUVs, motor homes, motorcycles,
motorized bicycles, golf carts, SMVs, riding lawn mowers.
      TECUMSEH TRAIL. The eight-foot-wide asphalt trail located along SR 68
which provides access for pedestrians to travel between Tecumseh Jr./Sr. High
School and Lynnville Community Center.
   (B)   No unauthorized motor vehicles shall be allowed to operate on any part
of Tecumseh Trail at anytime.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand, or park an unauthorized motor vehicle
upon Tecumseh Trail at any place or time.
   (D)   Signs shall be posted at intervals along Tecumseh Trail indicating
that parking and operation of unauthorized motor vehicles on Tecumseh Trail is
prohibited.
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 5-16-2023) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PROHIBITING PARKING ON ALLEYS.
   (A)   Definition. The definition of MOTOR VEHICLE, for purposes of this
section, is any vehicle that is self-propelled, to include without limitation,
automobiles, vans, trucks, SUVs, motor homes, and motorcycles.
   (B)   All alleys located in the town are the subject matter of this section.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a motor vehicle upon the alleys
at any place or time.
   (D)   This section does not apply to delivery vehicles, emergency motor
vehicles or town motor vehicles used for maintenance of the alley or other town
motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 11-21-2023) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, to include any business, who violates any provision of §
72.05 shall, upon being found in violation of §
72.05, be subject to a fine not exceeding $500. A separate offense shall be
deemed to have been committed each day during which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (C)   Any person, to include any business, who during any calendar year
violates any provision of §
72.06 shall, for the first violation of §
72.06, be subject to a fine of $25, for the second violation a fine of $50 and
for all additional violations, a fine of $100 per violation. A separate offense
shall be deemed to have been committed each day during which a violation occurs
or continues.
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 5-16-2023; Ord. 2023-9, passed 11-21-2023)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
73.01   Definition of golf cart
   
73.02   Prohibited operation
   
73.03   Permissible streets
   
73.04   Restricted streets and areas
   
73.05   Definition of operator
   
73.06   Registration requirements
   
73.07   Equipment
   
73.08   Number and seating of occupants
   
73.09   Responsibility of owner or lessee
   
73.10   Traffic rules
   
73.11   Financial responsibility of owner, lessee and operator
   
73.12   Restriction on operation between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   
73.13   Emergencies
   
73.14   Impoundment of golf cart
   
73.15   Enforcement
   
73.16   Town employees exempt
Off-Road Vehicles
   
73.30   Definitions
   
73.31   Use and operation of off-road vehicles on town streets
   
73.32   Registration requirements
   
73.33   Headlights, taillights, brakes, pennant and rear view mirror
   
73.34   Statutory restriction on use
   
73.35   Number of occupants
   
73.36   Duties in event of accident
   
73.37   Possession of registration and certificate of insurance
   
73.38   Restriction on operation between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   
73.39   Other laws and regulations
   
73.40   Disturbance of street
   
73.41   Emergencies
   
73.42   Impoundment of off-road vehicle
   
73.42   Enforcement
   
73.43   Town employees exempt
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.01 DEFINITION OF GOLF CART.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.02 PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, the operation of golf carts on
permissible streets, as defined in §
73.03, is and shall be prohibited, except insofar as such golf carts are
registered, equipped and operated in full compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 PERMISSIBLE STREETS.
   Golf carts may be operated on streets within the town on which the speed
limit is 30 mph or less, hereinafter called PERMISSIBLE STREETS.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.04 RESTRICTED STREETS AND AREAS.
   Golf carts may not be operated on any of the following:
   (A)   Indiana State Highway 61 (Main Street) except as provided in division
(C) below;
   (B)   Any street or highway posted by order of the Town Council or its
designee for non-use by golf carts;
   (C)   State Highway 61 (Main Street), except to cross said Highway 61 at
First Street and at Third Street in a path 90 degrees to Highway 61, or as
directed by a law enforcement officer; provided, however, that golf carts may
be operated on State Highway 61 (Main Street) in connection with and during the
course of such special events as may be from time to time determined and so
designated by the Town Council;
   (D)   Any unpaved surfaces of public property;
   (E)   Any private property without permission of the owner; and
   (F)   Sidewalks.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 DEFINITION OF OPERATOR.
   Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid motor vehicle drivers
license may operate a golf cart within the town.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner or lessee of a golf cart desiring to operate it on permissible
streets, must register the golf cart annually with the town on or before August
1, and an annual registration fee of $25 paid to the Clerk-Treasurer, who after
inspection by the Town Marshal verifying the golf cart is insured and equipped
as required by §§ 73.07 and 73.10, respectively, of this subchapter, shall
issue a certificate of registration permit and numerical tags which numerical
tags shall be attached to and prominently displayed on the front and rear of
the golf cart. The permit must be in the golf cart or in the possession of the
person operating the golf cart at all times such golf cart is in operation on
permissible streets.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 EQUIPMENT.
   A golf cart operating on permissible streets shall be equipped with two
operating headlights (one on each side of the front of the golf cart),
taillights (one on each side of the rear of the golf cart) visible from a
distance of 500 feet, brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop
and hold the golf cart, brake lights and a rear view mirror. A slow moving
vehicle placard shall be prominently displayed on the rear of the golf cart or,
in the alternative, the golf cart must have, at the rear of the golf cart, an
orange pennant or flag at least 12 inches but not more than 24 inches long,
affixed to a staff or pole measuring at least four feet but not more than ten
feet in height. The pole or staff height shall be measured from the top of the
seat.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017; Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 NUMBER AND SEATING OF OCCUPANTS.
   Occupants of a golf cart in operation on the permissible streets shall be
limited to the number of persons for whom factory seating is installed on the
cart. Occupants of the golf cart, including the operator, shall be seated in
the cart and no part of the body of the operator or an occupant shall extend
outside the perimeter of the golf cart while in operation.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR LESSEE.
   The owner, or lessee, of a golf cart, who applies for a permit to operate
the golf cart within the town, as herein provided in §
73.06, shall agree to be responsible, jointly and severally, with any person
who is permitted to operate the golf cart, for any injury or damages the
operator causes by reason of the operation of the golf cart if such operator is
liable for such damages.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 TRAFFIC RULES.
   All golf carts and the operation thereof shall be subject to all traffic
rules, in addition to the requirements set forth herein, as required by state
statutes governing the operation of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER, LESSEE AND OPERATOR.
   A golf cart operating on permissible streets shall be insured by liability
insurance coverage in an amount not less than that provided by state statutes
for motor vehicles operated on public thoroughfares in the state. Proof of such
liability coverage must be available on the golf cart or carried by the
operator at all times the golf cart is in operation on permissible streets.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.12 RESTRICTION ON OPERATION BETWEEN 10:00 P.M. AND 6:00 A.M.
   A golf cart may not be operated on permissible streets between 10:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.13 EMERGENCIES.
   Any town, county or state law enforcement officer may prohibit operation of
a golf cart on permissible streets during emergencies.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.14 IMPOUNDMENT OF GOLF CART.
   (A)   (1)   Any golf cart operated on the streets of the town by an
unlicensed operator, without proof of liability insurance, or without the
equipment required by this subchapter, shall be impounded by the enforcing
officer. Said golf cart shall be held until retrieved by the owner and a
properly licensed operator.
      (2)   If the golf cart is improperly equipped as required by this
subchapter for operation on town streets, then it shall only be released to be
hauled away upon a properly licensed vehicle capable of safely hauling the
same.
      (3)   The golf cart shall not be released from impoundment until:
         (a)   It is properly registered as required by this subchapter;
         (b)   The actual charge for the towing of the golf cart to the place
of impoundment is paid; and
         (c)   Storage charges in the amount of $5 per day, or part thereof
have been paid.
   (C)   (1)   The town shall not be responsible for any loss or damage
sustained by any golf cart so impounded or stored hereunder.
      (2)   Golf carts not reclaimed within 30 days from the date of
impoundment shall be deemed abandoned and shall be sold as surplus property.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   All law enforcement officers in the town shall have the power, and it shall
be their duty, to enforce the provisions of the subchapter unless otherwise
prevented by state statutes regarding the enforcement of state laws.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.16 TOWN EMPLOYEES EXEMPT.
   Town employees are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter during the
course of performing their duties while using a golf cart owned by the town.
(Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017)
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 73.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATV STREETS. All town streets inside the town limits of the town.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
      (1)   For purposes of I.C. 14-16-1, and this subchapter, means a motor
driven vehicle of at least four wheels capable of cross-country travel:
         (a)   Without benefit of a road; and
         (b)   On or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland
or other natural terrain.
      (2)   The term OFF-ROAD VEHICLE does not include a snowmobile, any other
vehicle properly registered by the bureau of motor vehicles, any watercraft
that is registered under state statutes or a golf cart.
   OPERATOR. An OPERATOR of an off-road vehicle must be at least 16 years of
age and possess a valid motor vehicle driver’
   RESTRICTED STREETS.
      (1)   Indiana State Highway 61 (Main Street) except as provided in
division (3) below;
      (2)   Any street or highway posted by order of the Town Council or its
designee for non-use by off-road vehicles;
      (3)   On State Highway 61 (Main Street), except to cross said Highway 61
at First Street and at Third Street in a path 90 degrees to Highway 61, or as
directed by a law enforcement officer; provided however, that off-road vehicles
may be operated on State Highway 61 (Main Street) in connection with and during
the course of such special events as may be from time to time determined and so
designated by the Town Council;
      (3)   On any unpaved surfaces of public property;
      (4)   On any private property without permission of the owner; and
      (5)   On sidewalks.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.31 USE AND OPERATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES ON TOWN STREETS.
   (A)   Operators of off-road vehicles may use ATV streets, as those terms are
defined herein, subject to the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Off-road vehicles may not be operated on restricted streets.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.32 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-road vehicles must be registered under I.C. 9-18.1-14.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.33 HEADLIGHTS, TAILLIGHTS, BRAKES, PENNANT AND REAR VIEW MIRROR.
   The off-road vehicle must meet those standards of headlights, taillights and
brakes required under I.C. 14-16-1-21. In addition, the off-road vehicle
operated on ATV streets pursuant to this subchapter must have an orange pennant
or flag at least 12 inches but not more than 24 inches long, affixed to a staff
or pole measuring at least four feet but not more than ten feet in height. The
pole or staff height shall be measured from the top of the seat. The off-road
vehicle shall be equipped with a functional rear view mirror at all times when
the vehicle is being operated.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.34 STATUTORY RESTRICTION ON USE.
   Nothing in this subchapter modifies, alters or changes the restriction on
operation established under I.C. 14-16-1-23.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.35 NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS.
   No off-road vehicle shall be occupied by more persons than for which the
vehicle was designed. Each occupant shall have and use a separate seat. No part
of the body of the operation or an occupant shall extend outside the perimeter
of the off-road vehicle while in operation.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.36 DUTIES IN EVENT OF ACCIDENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter modifies, alters or changes the duties under I.C.
14-16-1-24 placed on the operator of an off-road vehicle in the event of an
accident.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.37 POSSESSION OF REGISTRATION AND CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   Any operator of an off-road vehicle shall carry on his or her person any
registration required under I.C. 14-16-1 and the certificate of insurance
required under this subchapter for the off-road vehicle being operated.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.38 RESTRICTION ON OPERATION BETWEEN 10:00 P.M. AND 6:00 A.M.
   In furtherance of the restriction established under I.C. 14-16-1-23(a)(7)
prohibiting the operation of off-road vehicle within 100 feet of a dwelling
between midnight and 6:00 a.m., an off-road vehicle may not be operated on any
town street between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.39 OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter modifies, alters or changes the requirements of
the operation of vehicles on public roadways in the state, and all operators of
off-road vehicles must obey and follow all rules and regulations applicable to
the operation of vehicles on roadways in the state.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.40 DISTURBANCE OF STREET.
   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on any ATV street in such a
manner which causes damage to the street or disturbs the surface of the street.
Any violator of this section, in addition to such penalties set forth in §
73.99, shall be responsible for all costs of repair of such damage or
disturbance.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.41 EMERGENCIES.
   Any town, county or state law enforcement officer may prohibit operation of
an off-road vehicle on an ATV street during emergencies.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.42 IMPOUNDMENT OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any off-road vehicle operated on an ATV street by an unlicensed
operator or without the equipment required by this subchapter or state law
shall be impounded by the enforcing officer. Said off-road vehicle shall be
held until retrieved by the owner and a properly licensed operator.
      (2)   If the off-road vehicle is improperly equipped as required by this
subchapter or state law for operation on town streets, then it shall only be
released to be hauled away upon a properly licensed vehicle capable of safely
hauling the same.
      (3)   The off-road vehicle shall not be released from impoundment until:
         (a)   It is properly registered as required by law:
         (b)   The actual charge for the towing of the vehicle to the place of
impoundment is paid; and
         (c)   Storage charges in the amount of $5 per day, or part thereof
have been paid.
   (B)   The town shall not be responsible for any loss or damage sustained by
any off-road vehicle so impounded or stored hereunder. Off-road vehicles not
reclaimed within 30 days from the date of impoundment shall be deemed abandoned
and shall be sold as surplus property.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.43 ENFORCEMENT.
   All law enforcement officers in the town shall have the power, and it shall
be their duty, to enforce the provisions of the subchapter unless otherwise
prevented by state statutes regarding the enforcement of state laws.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.44 TOWN EMPLOYEES EXEMPT.
   Town employees are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter during the
course of performing their duties while using an off-road vehicle owned by the
town.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Any person who violates §§
73.01 through
73.16 shall be subject to a penalty of $25 for the first violation in any 12-
month period for each violation.
         (b)   Any person who violates §§
73.01 through
73.16 a second time in any 12-month period shall be subject to a penalty of
$100 for each violation.
         (c)   In addition, the permit as provided, may be subject to
suspension or revocation; provided, however, in the event that two or more
offenses constituting violations of §§
73.01 through
73.16 occur within one year, the permit to operate the golf cart shall be
revoked and may not be reissued for a period of one year.
         (d)   If the person found responsible for violation of §§
73.01 through
73.16 is a minor, the custodial parent or parents of the minor shall be
responsible for payment of the fine or fines imposed hereunder. A MINOR is
defined as a person under the age of 18 years.
         (e)   Additionally, a court may order compliance with the provisions
of §§
73.01 through
73.16.
         (f)   All fines and penalties shall be payable to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the town’s violations clerk and shall
receive all payment of penalties under §§
73.01 through
73.16 for which the violator desires to waive trial and admit the violation.
The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to accept the payment of
the monetary penalties into the General Fund of the town. Payments shall be
made at the Town Hall during regular business hours.
         (g)   All cases wherein persons cited for a violation do not waive
trial and admit the violation or default in appearance before the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall be referred to the Town Attorney for filing with the
appropriate court in the county.
      (2)   Compliance: it shall be the responsibility for the owner or lessee
of the golf cart to comply with the provisions of §§
73.05,
73.06,
73.07,
73.09 and
73.10. The failure to comply with those requirements of §§
73.05,
73.06,
73.07,
73.09 and
73.10 shall constitute a violation of §§
73.01 through
73.16 by the owner or lessee of the golf cart. It shall be the responsibility
of the operator of the golf cart to comply with the provisions of §§
73.05,
73.06,
73.07,
73.09 and
73.10 (including specifically responsibility for the actions of all occupants)
as set forth in §
73.08. The failure to comply with the requirements set forth in §§
73.05,
73.06,
73.07,
73.09 or
73.10 shall constitute a violation of §§
73.01 through
73.16 by the operator.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
73.30 through
73.44 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and, upon conviction, shall be
fined pursuant to the following:
         (a)   First offense in a calendar year: $50;
         (b)   Second offense in an calendar year: $100; and
         (c) Third offense in a calendar year: $150.
      (2)   Each day that a violation occurs constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 7-5-2017; Ord. 2017-4, passed 7-5-2017)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   Speed limits in Lynnville Park
   
IV.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop signs shall be installed at the following intersections, as
stated:
Intersection Stop
Intersection                            Stop
Alley from Main Street to Church        Stop on alley at both Church Streets
Street, between First and Second Street and Main Street
Alley from Main Street to Church        Stop on alley at both Church Street and
Street, between Second and Third        Main Street
Center Street Between Maple and Fourth  Center Street stops at both
Street                                  intersections; Fourth and Maple
                                        continue on
Cherry Street and First Street          4-way stop
Cherry Street and Highway 68            Stop on Cherry Street
Cherry Street and Second Street         4-way stop
Cherry Street and Third Street          3-way stop
Church Street and First Street          4-way stop (presently stop on First
                                        going both east and west)
Church Street and Fourth Street         Stop on Fourth Street
Church Street and Second Street         4-way stop
Church Street and Third Street          4-way stop
Elm Street and First Street             Stop on Elm going south
Elm Street and Fourth Street            Stop on Elm Street
Elm Street and Second Street            4-way stop
Elm Street and Third Street             Stop on Third Street
Fourth Street and Old Petersburg Road   Stop on Fourth going west and Cemetery
                                        Access Road going east
Highway 61 and Fourth Street            Stop on Fourth Street both ways
Highway 61 and Kiddie Lane              Stop on Kiddie Lane going west
Highway 61 and Maple Street             Stop on Maple Street going east
Highway 68 and Church Street            Stop on Church Street
Highway 68 and Terry Drive              Stop on Terry Drive
Locust Street and Fourth Street         3-way stop
Lynn Ridge Drive and Highway 68         Stop on Lynn Ridge Drive
Main Street and Old Petersburg Road     Stop on Old Petersburg Road going south
                                        1-way away from Main Street both east
Main Street and Second Street           and west; however, stop sign on First
                                        going both east and west, for safety
Main Street and Third Street            Stop on Third Street going east and
                                        west
Oak Street and First                    4-way stop
Oak Street and Highway 68               Stop on Oak Street
Oak Street and Second Street            4-way stop
                                        3-way stop 10 Oak Street and Third
Oak Street and Third Street at western  Street at eastern intersection (jog
intersection                            that goes past church to cemetery);
                                        stop on Oak Street, going south; no
                                        stop on Third Street
Peach and Third Streets                 3-way stop
Peach Street and Second Street          3-way stop
Peach Street and State Highway 68       Stop on Peach Street
Vine Street and First Street/the Loop   3-way stop
Vine Street and Highway 68              Stop at Vine Street
 
   (B)   The Street Department shall install the stop signs in accordance with
division (A) above.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 9-2-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on or across
the streets in the Lynn Ridge Estate Subdivision Phase I, to wit: Lynn Ridge
Circle, at a speed greater than 25 mph.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be fined
not more than $500.
(Ord. 2016-7, passed 12-1-2016)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS IN LYNNVILLE PARK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on or across
the streets in the Lynnville Park, to wit: Red Sage, Beaver Lane, Possum Lane,
Rosebud Lane, Racoon Lane, Fawn Lane, Deer Lane, Violet Lane, Rabbit Lane, Old
Dam Road and from the junction of the entrance road from State Highway 68,
thence north along the centerline of said entrance road 410 feet and thence
west along the centerline of said entrance road a distance of 820 feet, the
width of said entrance road being 30 feet, at a speed not greater than 15 mph.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be fined
not more than $500.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 11-1-2016)
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Second Street in said town from Main Street to Oak Street be and the
same is hereby designated as a one-way street for all motor vehicles traveling
in a southwesterly direction thereon.
   (B)   Second Street in said town from Main Street to Church Street be and
the same is hereby designated as a one-way street for all motor vehicles
traveling in a northeasterly direction thereon.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on
Second Street between Main Street and Oak Street except in a southwesterly
direction there along and in compliance with the one-way designation.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on
Second Street between Main Street and Church Street except in a northeasterly
direction there along and in compliance with the one-way designation.
   (E)   Terry Lane shall be one-way in a counter-clockwise direction upon
entering the circle.
   (F)   Fourth Street shall be one-way in a westerly direction beginning at
Indiana State Road 61 and ending at Old Petersburg Road.
   (G)   Second Street shall be one-way in an easterly direction beginning at
Elm Street and ending at Fourth Street.
   (H)   (1)   Any person operating a motor vehicle on Second Street between
Oak Street and Church Street in violation of the one-way designations provided
above in divisions (A) through (D) shall be deemed guilty of a Class C
misdemeanor as provided by I.C. 35-50-3-4 and shall be subject to the
punishment as provided therein.
      (2)   Any person violating divisions (E) through (G) shall be fined not
more than $500.
(Ord. 1-79, 1979, passed 2-19-1979; Ord. 2021-8, passed 9-7-2021)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on either
side of Third Street between Cherry Street and Church Street in the town, being
a distance of 425 feet, at any time.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on either
side of Church Street in the town from the intersection of Third Street with
Church Street, and thence south a distance of 240 feet along Church Street, at
any time.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle upon that portion
of the east side of Main Street situated immediately in front of the United
States Post Office building, which said portion of said public street is
approximately 30 feet in length and is designated by yellow markings on the
curb thereof located in the town, which said street is also known and
designated as Indiana State Highway 61.
      (2)   The Town Marshal is hereby authorized to remove and tow away or
have removed and towed away by commercial towing service any vehicle illegally
parked on said portion of the above designated street. Any such vehicle so
towed away for illegal parking shall be stored in a safe place and shall be
returned to the owner or operator thereof upon the payment of the cost of
towing and storage of such vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
      (2)   Any person violating division (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall be
fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 2-1962, passed 12-3-1962; Ord. 2015-3, passed 4-21-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
      96.   NUISANCE VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner
   
90.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
90.06   Private or rental property
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Towing contracts
   
90.10   Liability for loss or damage
   
90.11   Liens on vehicles for towing services
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the town
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
the owner’s agent within 20 days of the vehicle’s removal;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this division (7),
a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber cloth or
textile covering is considered to be visible; and
      (8)   A vehicle that:
         (a)   Was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   Has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, vehicle wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. The State Bureau of Motor Vehicles, unless otherwise indicated.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee or a member of the Town
Police Department.
(I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121)
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A person who engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. A vehicle or watercraft of a type that must be registered under
I.C. 9-18-2 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1, other than an off-road
vehicle or a snowmobile under I.C. 9-18-2.5 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-
18.1-14.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(c))
§ 90.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active-duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34 or a military
vehicle registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 90.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, the owner of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment and is liable for all of
the costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or the
parts under this chapter.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C), the costs for storage of an
abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle with a length of at
least 30 feet may not exceed $2,500.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (E)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, sale disposal and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds
from the sale of the vehicle shall be returned as described in I.C. 9-22-1 or
I.C. 9-22-6, whichever is applicable.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 90.05 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner of the vehicle, and the person cannot establish the right
to the possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B)   If the owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear and pay
all costs, or the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined by a search
conducted under §
90.08, the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed of in
accordance with this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts
and pays all costs incurred against the vehicle or parts at that time, the
vehicle or parts shall be released. A towing service shall notify the
appropriate public agency of all releases under this section. The notification
must include the name, signature and address of the person that owns or holds a
lien on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle or parts, costs and the date
of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
§ 90.06 PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
      (1)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under §
90.07(E) to have the vehicle removed; or
      (2)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying with
divisions (B), (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing
the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, name and address of the person who owns or controls
the private property, and a telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (C)   If, after 24 hours, the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property has not removed the vehicle from the private
property, the person who owns or controls the private property on which the
vehicle is believed to be abandoned may have the vehicle towed from the private
property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, in an emergency situation a
vehicle believed to be abandoned on private property may be removed
immediately. As used in this section, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the
presence of the vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with the
conduct of normal business operations of the person who owns or controls the
private property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or
property, or both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (E)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under divisions (C) and (D) above
shall give notice to the town that the abandoned vehicle is in the possession
of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, Town Police Department and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
      (4)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) above is not removed
within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned
vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition
and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition of the
vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts $1,000, the towing service shall immediately transfer the
vehicle to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and
photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be provided
to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard may dispose of an
abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on which the towing
service removed the abandoned vehicle. A town that operates a storage yard
under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile
scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon removal of the abandoned
vehicle. The Police Department, Town Marshal or storage yard shall retain the
original records and photographs for at least two years. If the vehicle is
demolished, a copy of the abandoned vehicle report shall be forwarded to the
State Bureau of Motor Vehicles by the automobile scrap yard after the vehicle
has been demolished.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is at least $1,000, the officer, before placing a notice tag
on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person
who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a
storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 90.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Within 72 hours after removal of a vehicle to a storage yard or
towing service under §§
90.06(C) or (D), or
90.07(C) or (D), the Police Department, Town Marshal or towing service shall
conduct a search of national data bases, including a data base of vehicle
identification numbers, to attempt to obtain the last state of record of the
vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and address of the person who
owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and address
of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than 72 hours after
obtaining the name and address, notify the owner of the vehicle and any lien
holder on the vehicle, as indicated by the certificate of title or discovered
by a search under division (A), of the following:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the public agency or
towing service;
         (b)   Storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is subject to
sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid; and
         (c)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
      (3)   The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the Bureau.
Notwithstanding I.C. 9-22-1-4, a public agency or towing service that fails to
notify the owner of or lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this section
may not collect additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of
the name and address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-22-
1-19.
§ 90.09 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles
and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 90.10 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and
   (F)   An agent or a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
§ 90.11 LIENS ON VEHICLES FOR TOWING SERVICES.
   (A)   A person that provides towing services for a vehicle at the request of
a person on whose property an abandoned vehicle is located; or in accordance
with this chapter; has a lien on the vehicle for the reasonable value of the
charges for the towing services and other related costs in accordance with I.C.
9-22-6.
   (B)   A person that obtains a lien for an abandoned vehicle under this
section must comply with §
90.06(C), (D) and (E), §
90.08 and I.C. 9-22-6.
(I.C. 9-22-1-21.5)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals; sanitation
Dogs
   
91.20   Prohibited conduct; owner responsible
   
91.21   Running at large prohibited
   
91.22   Dogs in heat; confinement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 91.02 LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
guineas or other farm animals or fowl within 200 feet of any residence, other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having these animals.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is or may be kept to become unsanitary.
Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 91.20 PROHIBITED CONDUCT; OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her dog or dogs so as to prevent the following actions by it
or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passers-by;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.21 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the corporate
limits of the town. Any dog running at large within the town shall be
impounded.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.22 DOGS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in such manner that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog except
for planned breeding.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Purpose and administration
   
92.02   Incorporation of state law
   
92.03   Authority to make inspections
   
92.04   Definitions
   
92.05   Nuisances prohibited
   
92.06   Notice of violation
   
92.07   Citation for failure to abate nuisance
   
92.08   Abatement of nuisance by town
   
92.09   Continuous enforcement orders
   
92.10   Institution of enforcement action
   
92.11   Procedure for collection of abatement and administrative costs
   
92.12   Weeds, grass and rank vegetation
Cross-reference:
   Unsafe buildings, see §
150.03
§ 92.01 PURPOSE AND ADMINISTRATION.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect the public safety, health and
welfare and enhance the environment of and for the people of the Town of
Lynnville, Indiana (the “town”) by making it unlawful to allow or maintain a
public nuisance. This section is to be administered by the town's Code
Enforcement Department and the Chief Administrative Officer of the Code
Enforcement Department, who shall be appointed by the Town Council, shall serve
as the “Enforcement Authority.”
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 92.02 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   This chapter incorporates the provisions, where applicable, of I.C. 36-1-
6 as it now exists and is hereafter amended.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 92.03 AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS.
   Officers and employees of the town shall report the existence of public
nuisances to the Enforcement Authority. The Enforcement Authority shall have
the authority to visit and enter into or upon any property or premises within
the limits of the town to ascertain and discover any nuisance and to make
examination thereof.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 92.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. A public nuisance, which shall mean a condition or activity which
endangers the health, safety or welfare of the public or of any individual,
causes injury to property, or interferes with an individual's possession or
ordinary use and enjoyment of his or her property. The term NUISANCE shall
include those offenses declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance and
those offenses which are known to the common law and Indiana statutes as public
nuisances, particularly where such offenses continue for such length of time to
(a) substantially interfere, injure, or endanger the comfort, health, or safety
of the public, (b) in any way render the public insecure in life or in the use
of property, (c) greatly offend the public morals or decency, (d) unlawfully or
substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to obstruct, or render dangerous
for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable body of water, or other
public way, or (e) are injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive, to the
senses of a reasonable person so as to essentially interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property. Whenever the word NUISANCE is used
in this chapter, it means a public nuisance as defined herein.
   OWNER. The record owner and/or any record contract purchaser of real estate
as shown by the records maintained by the Warrick County Auditor.
   RANK VEGETATION. Plant life which grows excessively and unmanageably upon
the land.
   WEED. A plant held to have little or no material public value, which tends
to overgrow or choke
out more desirable plants, and is usually growing, or has the potential to
grow, plentifully and detrimentally upon the land.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 92.05 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any property with the town to cause, permit, maintain or allow
a nuisance as defined and described in this chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, conditions constituting a public
nuisance shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Litter, trash, garbage, debris or any other materials or matter
existing on a property in such a manner as to be detrimental to the public
health, comfort, safety or the aesthetic well-being of the community.
      (2)   Fallen trees, stumps, or dead trees.
      (3)   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items, tires, tools,
fixtures, and long-term storage of construction material.
      (4)   Demolition remains.
      (5)   Open excavations uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether
lined or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property,
including open foundations.
      (6)   Dressing for poultry or rabbits.
      (7)   Structure defaced with paint or wording.
      (8)   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, trash, rubbish, animal
waste, or human excrement which is deposited, allowed, or caused to be upon any
property.
      (9)   Any substance which is caused or permitted to flow onto or be
deposited upon any public
property or public way, except natural surface water drainage.
      (10)   Any dead animal.
      (11)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease and is likely to cause an imminent health hazard.
      (12)   The placing or accumulation on or within any real or personal
property, or the permitting of same, of any matter which attracts or may
attract rodents, insects, or animals in such a manner as to create a health
hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition.
      (13)   Any dilapidated or condemned building, structure or dwelling, or
remains thereof, so out of repair that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to
catch on fire or communicate fire to surrounding properties.
      (14)   Any noxious or repugnant odor, smoke, dust, or noise that emits
from the premises into the surrounding atmosphere which creates or may create
an uncomfortable condition to surrounding properties.
       (15)   The storage of explosive, combustible, or other flammable
material creates a safety or health risk.
      (16)   Any trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow, fences, or other material that
obstruct public ways or cause a visual barrier for vehicular traffic.
      (17)   Any junk automobiles, boats, trailers, broken concrete, scrap
metal, or automobile parts.
      (18)   Any growth of weeds, grass, or other rank vegetation which is
neglected, disregarded, or not adequately managed or controlled, cut, mown, or
removed, has attained a height of ten inches or more or is otherwise imminently
detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare.
      (19)   An unsafe building or unsafe premises as defined in the Indiana
Unsafe Building Law (I.C. 36-7-9).
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 92.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Violations of this chapter shall be addressed by the Enforcement Authority
as follows:
   (A)   When a public nuisance is found to exist on a property, the
Enforcement Authority shall notify the property's owner in writing of the
existence of the nuisance and order the owner to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   The written notice and order to abate shall be served upon the owner
by personal service, by certified mail, or by posting the notice and order
conspicuously on the property and mailing a copy of the notice and order by
regular first-class United States mail, postage prepaid. Use of the term
“notice” in this chapter shall refer to the notice and order to abate issued
pursuant to this section.
   (C)   The notice shall state the nature of the nuisance and shall order the
nuisance to be abated, granting a minimum of ten calendar days and a maximum of
60 calendar days to abate the nuisance. That notice shall also contain the
address and the telephone number of the Enforcement Authority and include a
notification that if the nuisance is not abated within the period specified in
the notice, the town may abate the nuisance and seek recovery for its costs of
doing and impose fines and penalties as may be provided by the ordinance.
   (D)   Within ten calendar days of delivery of the notice, the owner may
notify the town in writing of any specific objection to the notice. Upon
receipt of an owners’ written objection, the Enforcement Authority shall cease
enforcement actions, and the objections shall be presented to the Town Council.
   (E)   If after the expiration the time specified in the notice, the nuisance
continues unabated and either no written objection has been received or an
objection has been received and overruled by the Town Council, the Enforcement
Authority may take further action to enforce this chapter, including without
limitation action to abate the nuisance and issue citations in accordance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 92.07 CITATION FOR FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   Whenever the Enforcement Authority determines that the owner has failed to
abate the nuisance within the time period provided in the notice, the
Enforcement Authority may issue a citation against the owner and assess fines
in accordance with this section. Upon the issuance of the first citation the
fine shall be $50. Upon the issuance of a second citation the fine shall be
$100. Upon the issuance of any subsequent citation the fine shall be $250. Each
subsequent day of violation shall be considered a separate and chargeable
offense for the purpose of calculating fines under this section.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 92.08 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY TOWN.
   Upon failure, neglect, or refusal of any party to comply with the notice, in
addition to the issuance of a citation under this chapter, the Enforcement
Authority may cause the abatement of the nuisance by any reasonable means and
thereafter furnish the Town Council with a statement of the costs of the
abatement.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 92.09 CONTINUOUS ENFORCEMENT ORDERS.
   If at any time the town causes abatement of a nuisance after providing
notice to the owner in accordance with this chapter, a continuous enforcement
order may be posted at the property at the time of the initial abatement. A
continuous enforcement order serves as notice to the owner that any subsequent
violation during the same calendar year for which the initial notice of
violation was provided may be abated by the town without need of further notice
to the property owner.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 92.10 INSTITUTION OF ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   The Town Council may bring a civil action against a violator of this chapter
in accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-4.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 92.11 PROCEDURE FOR COLLECTION OF ABATEMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
   (A)   The Enforcement Authority shall make and issue to the owner a bill for
all costs incurred by the town in its abatement of the nuisance. The cost
billed to the owner under this section shall include all actual costs incurred
by the town, including without limitation, the cost of a private contractor
(should one be used) or the actual cost per hour or any labor spent by town
employees in abating the nuisance, equipment and supply costs, the cost of any
title or other record search, the cost of all postage, the cost of any legal
fees incurred by the town by reason of such violation, and an administrative
fee equal to 2% of the total of such costs. The owner shall pay the amount of
the bill to the Clerk-Treasurer's office within 30 days after the date of
issuance unless, within those 30 days, the owner notifies that office in
writing of any objection to that bill. If that notice is given, the time for
payment shall be tolled until the Town Council acts on the objection.
   (B)   If the 30 days has expired and either no timely objection to the bill
has been made or the Town Council has overruled any timely objection and the
bill is not paid in full, then the bill for all such costs which the owner has
failed to pay shall be considered delinquent.
   (C)   Whenever the Enforcement Authority deems it necessary, the Enforcement
Authority shall prepare a list of fees and penalties that are enforceable under
this chapter and record a copy of the list with the Warrick County Recorder in
accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 92.12 WEEDS, GRASS AND RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   No person shall allow any weeds, grass, or rank vegetation to grow to
a height eight inches from the ground on any real property owned, leased, or
controlled by him or her within the Town of Lynnville, Indiana (“the town”).
All weeds, grass, and rank vegetation in an excess of ten inches are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated in accordance with law.
   (B)   Weeds and rank vegetation shall be defined to include any undesirable,
uncultivated plant including weeds, grass and vegetation, excepting
agricultural crops, such as hay and pasture, while growing.
   (C)   Whenever the town finds weeds, grass, or rank vegetation on real
property within the town which is in such a condition as to violate this
section, the town shall issue written notice to the property owner ordering the
property owner to remove the weeds, grass, or rank vegetation within ten days
of receipt of the notice. Notice shall be served by certified mail, return
receipt requested, upon the property owner at said person's last address as
indicated on the records of the Warrick County Auditor on the date of the
notice, with a first-class letter sent on the same date. Notice shall be deemed
complete and received upon mailing.
      (1)   In the event the property owner fails to remove the weeds, grass,
or rank vegetation, as required in the written notice, the town may issue to
the property owner, a citation for an ordinance violation which states the
relevant offenses of the ordinance, and the matter may be prosecuted in the
appropriate court by the Town Attorney.
      (2)   In addition, if the property owner fails to remove the weeds,
grass, or rank vegetation, as required in the written notice, the town, through
its own workforce or through a private contractor hired by the town, may enter
upon the real property and abate the violation by cutting and removing the
weeds, grass, or rank vegetation. The expense thereof shall be billed to the
property owner. If the property owner fails to pay such bill within ten days
from the date of notice (which notice shall be served as previously set forth
in this division, the town will certify to the Warrick County Auditor the
amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the
certification. The County Auditor shall thereafter place the total amount
certified on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount
(which may include, without limitation, fees for title searches and postage),
and any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected,
and shall be disbursed to the general fund of the town. The cost billed to the
property owner under this section shall include all actual costs incurred by
the town, including without limitation, the cost of a private contractor should
one be used or the actual cost per hour or any labor spent by town employees in
abating the public nuisance, equipment and supply costs, the cost of any title
or other record search, the cost of all postage, the cost of any legal fees
incurred by reason of such violation, and an administrative fee equal to 2% of
the total of such costs.
      (3)   If an initial notice of violation of this section is provided to a
property owner by certified mail and first-class mail as provided herein, a
continuous abatement notice may be mailed by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or posted at the property at the time of abatement instead of by
certified mail or first-class mail. A continuous abatement notice serves as
notice to the property owner that any subsequent violation during the same year
for which the initial notice of violation was provided may be abated by the
town or its contractors without need of further notice to the property owner.
   (D)   Any property owner that is aggrieved by a notice to abate or a bill
submitted following failure to comply, may appeal. Such an appeal shall be made
in writing and shall be delivered personally to the Town Council at Lynnville
Town Hall, within not more than ten days from the date the notice or bill was
received. The Lynnville Town Council may, but is not required to, conduct a
hearing on request of an aggrieved person pursuant to this section.
   (E)   Any person found to be in violation of one or more requirements of
this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $100. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. Said fine shall be in
addition, and without exclusion, to any other remedies and/or penalties
provided herein.
   (F)   In no event shall a certification be submitted to the County Auditor
unless and until notice as provided herein has been served upon the owner of
the real property.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 8-20-2024)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
   
93.07   Use of public right-of-way
   
93.08   Notification requirements
   
93.09   Locating and excavating town water lines
   
93.10   Restoration
   
93.11   Prohibition against the use of poles in the public right-of-way
   
93.12   Enforcement and penalty
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and other facts
as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit
sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the authorized
town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate town fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the town
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk- Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 93.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall give bond for the faithful performance of the work. The town
executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate contracts for the
different kinds of work with different parties.
§ 93.07 USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person, firm or
corporation to excavate, dig, cut, tunnel, bore, or drill for the purpose of
constructing or installing utility facilities, including without limitation
gas, electric, water, sewer, and cable, fiberoptic, or other telecommunication
lines, within any public right-of-way in the town without first meeting the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 93.08 NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person, firm or corporation shall, prior to excavating, digging,
cutting, tunneling, boring, drilling, or otherwise constructing or installing a
utility or facilities within town public right-of-way provide 72 hours advance
notice to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer. In the case of an emergency that affects
the health and safety of the public and/or requires the restoration of utility
service, notice to the town’s Clerk-Treasurer shall be attempted, but work may
be performed without providing such notice so long as notice is provided as
soon as is reasonably possible. The notice shall be delivered, in writing and
in person, to the Clerk-Treasurer at the Lynnville Town Hall, 207 Main St.,
Lynnville, Indiana.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 93.09 LOCATING AND EXCAVATING TOWN WATER LINES.
   Prior to the construction or installation of any utility facility within
town right-of-way, all utilities within the area of the construction shall be
located and marked as required by state law (I.C. 8-1-26), and any town water
lines so located and marked as being within five feet of the intended
construction or installation shall be excavated to daylight: meaning that the
water lines shall be safely exposed and made visible to avoid damaging the
water lines during construction or installation of the utility.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 93.10 RESTORATION.
   Upon completion of any work performed within town rights-of-way governed by
this subchapter, the person, firm or corporation that performed the work shall
restore the area disturbed by the work to the condition that existed prior to
commencement of the work.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 93.11 PROHIBITION AGAINST THE USE OF POLES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person, firm or
corporation to place poles in the town right-of-way for the purpose of
constructing or installing utilities or utility facilities, including without
limitation electric, cable, fiberoptic, or other telecommunication lines.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 93.12 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this subchapter may result in the imposition of a fine
of not less than $100, and each day that a violation continues shall constitute
a separate violation. Any fines collected shall be deposited into an account
for the use and benefit of the town.
   (B)   If it becomes necessary for the town to enforce this subchapter by
filing suit in court, should any person, firm or corporation be found in
violation of this subchapter, they shall be subject to being fined and for
payment of damages, and, should the town request and receive an equitable
remedy from the court, to include, without limitation, a temporary restraining
order, temporary injunction, permanent injunction, or order of abatement, then
said person, firm or corporation shall be responsible for the payment of court
costs, and any costs of litigation and attorney fees incurred by the town.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 7-20-2021)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Campgrounds
   
94.02   Park rules and regulations
Park Authority
   
94.15   Created
   
94.16   Transfer of books, papers and other documents
   
94.17   Superintendent; employees
   
94.18   Powers
   
94.19   Prior leases
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 CAMPGROUNDS.
   The members of the Town Park Board desire to establish permanent regulations
for the purpose of governing certain types of recreational vehicles for
temporary or year-round camping.
   (A)   Renovated school buses will not be allowed to camp on a year-round
basis.
   (B)   Renovated school buses, while camping on a temporary basis, must be
parked along the back perimeter of the camp ground area in which the patron has
paid.
   (C)   (1)   Any recreational vehicle is prohibited from camping during the
months of November, December, January, February and March if their unit does
not have running water and bathroom facilities.
      (2)   The campground bath house will be closed during the above months.
(Ord. 2,2003, passed 3- -2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   All reservation fees shall be paid in full before reservations are
made, by a responsible individual, who is at least 18 years of age. Payment of
the camping fee shall entitle the family unit or group to occupy the campsite
until checkout time. Check out time is 12:00pm (noon) Monday through Saturday
and 2:00pm on Sunday.
      (2)   The campground permit or registration shall be posted where it can
be readily inspected by park staff.
      (3)   The registered camper for the campsite is responsible for the
actions and conduct of his family unit or group.
      (4)   Sub-leasing campsites is prohibited.
      (5)   One family unit or group is permitted to occupy a campsite, but in
no event shall a family unit or group consist of more than six persons.
      (6)   Campers under 18 years of age must be accompanied by an adult or
obtain prior special permission from park staff.
      (7)   Campsite visitors are welcome upon paying admission to Lynnville
Park.
      (8)   Quiet hours are from 10:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m. and are mandatory.
No campsite shall be set up in the campground during quiet hours.
      (9)   The use of generators is prohibited during quiet hours.
      (10)   Any excess use of water shall result in an additional charge being
added to regular camping fees.
      (11)   The washing of dishes or pets in bathroom facilities is
prohibited. Further, the washing of motor vehicles, to include golf carts and
mopeds, in campsites is prohibited.
      (12)   Pets shall be kept on a leash, no longer than six feet, and shall
be personally attended to at all times. Pet waste must be picked up and
disposed of properly.
      (13)   No pets are allowed in any park building or structure except
service dogs.
      (14)   Pet owners are responsible for the animal not creating a
disturbance of any kind.
      (15)   No more than two tents of reasonable size shall be allowed on any
campsite.
      (16)   No more than two vehicles, which include RVs, shall be allowed on
any campsite.
      (17)   Fires are permitted only in designated fire pits. Fires must be
completely extinguished before a campsite is vacated.
      (18)   No person shall injure, destroy, remove, or deface any building,
structure, sign, rock, tree, shrub, vine, or property of any kind; or pick any
flowers, the collection of firewood being included in this rule.
      (19)   Trash and garbage shall be properly disposed of by putting it into
plastic trash bags and placing them in the dumpster behind the Recreation
Building and shall not be scattered on the ground or in the water.
      (20)   No off-road or all-terrain vehicles are permitted in the park.
Golf carts are permitted in the park. Any person operating a golf cart shall be
at least 16 years of age and have a valid driver's license.
      (21)   Motor vehicles, to include golf carts and mopeds, shall be
operated or parked only on roads and places provided.
      (22)   The speed limit throughout the park is ten mph, and no motor
vehicle, to include golf cars and mopeds, shall be operated in the park in
excess of the speed limit.
      (23)   No person shall take, kill, injure, pursue, harm, or shoot any
wild animal.
      (24)   Swimming is prohibited anywhere in Lynnville Lake.
      (25)   Boat launching areas shall be used for the purpose of launching
and removing boats, to include kayaks. Motor vehicles and boat trailers must be
parked in designated areas.
      (26)   A person shall be 16 years of age to rent a kayak.
      (27)   Any persons in any type of watercraft shall have in their
possession a U.S. Coast Guard approved flotation device for each person on the
watercraft.
      (28)   Lynnville Lake is a no wake lake, and no watercraft shall be
operated at a speed greater than five miles per hour.
      (29)   All Indiana fishing and boating laws apply at the park.
      (30)   The use and possession of fireworks is prohibited at any time or
place in the park.
      (31)   Use of bow and arrow are strictly prohibited in the park, except
that bow fishing is permitted. Use of firearms is prohibited except as
permitted by law.
      (32)   Private notices or advertisements shall not be posted in the park
without the express written permission of the Park Superintendent. No person or
entity shall engage in any commercial business or enterprise of any nature in
the park without the express written permission of the Park Superintendent.
   (B)   Person subject to rules and regulations. All park lessees, residents,
and visitors to the park shall be bound by the said rules and regulations.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person, firm, or corporation, upon violation of any of
the rules and regulations set forth above shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding $2,500 for the first violation and a fine not exceeding $7,500 for
second and subsequent violations. A separate violation shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs and continues.
(Ord. 2024-2, passed 2-6-2024)
PARK AUTHORITY
§ 94.15 CREATED.
   (A)   I.C. 36-10-5-2 makes the municipal legislative body, the Town Council,
the park authority and the park authority shall manage all public parks,
including approaches, that belong to the municipality.
   (B)   The Town Council shall take over management and control of the
Lynnville Park, as the park authority.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 8-7-2007)
§ 94.16 TRANSFER OF BOOKS, PAPERS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS.
   In accordance with this subchapter, all books, papers, documents and other
property of the former Lynnville Park and Recreation Board shall be transferred
to and become the property of the town.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 8-7-2007)
§ 94.17 SUPERINTENDENT; EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The park authority may hire a Superintendent and needed employees for
the operation of the park, who shall serve at the pleasure of the park
authority, with the Superintendent to report to the park authority concerning
the operation of the park, and attend all meetings of the park authority, which
shall be held at the same time as regular Town Council meetings.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall direct employees and recommend termination of
any employee who is not satisfactorily performing his or her duties.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 8-7-2007)
§ 94.18 POWERS.
   The park authority shall have all powers necessary to perform its duties in
operation and management of the park.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 8-7-2007)
§ 94.19 PRIOR LEASES.
   The park authority recognizes that certain leases have been entered into by
and between the former Town Park and Recreation Board, and that any such
leases, if valid, are binding upon the park authority.
(Ord. 2007-12, passed 8-7-2007)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy statement
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
95.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
95.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
95.10   Exemptions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§ 95.04,
95.05, 95.06, 95.07 or 95.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in the definition for FAMILIAL STATUS above.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802, 910 I.A.C.
2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
95.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
95.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
95.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period.
         (b)   The private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor
have owned or reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-
family houses at any one time.
         (c)   The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
95.03 and except as exempted by §§
95.03(B) and
95.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   The buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   The person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13,1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (H)(3)(c)3.; and
   (J)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
95.03,
95.04,
95.05 or
95.06.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. part 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. part 574.3 the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 95.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means
housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
         (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-19-2016)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
   (e)   Any person who violates §
95.08 shall be fined according to local, state and federal law; and if bodily
injury results, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more
than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment
for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 7-19-2016)
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCE VEHICLES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Policy
   
96.03   Notice of violation and administrative fee
   
96.04   Appeal of notice of violation
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply to this chapter:
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The code of ordinances of the Town of Lynnville, Indiana.
   NOTICE. Either a written document provided to the operator of the vehicle by
personal service, or a written document served upon the owner of a vehicle by
mail. An operator or owner may not waive their right to notice as defined in
this paragraph.
   NUISANCE. Any violation of this chapter.
   OPERATOR. A person in possession of the vehicle at the time a nuisance
occurs.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone, jointly, or severally with others, shall have
title to the vehicle with or without having actual possession.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Town Marshal and/or the Lynnville Police Department.
   TOWN. The Town of Lynnville, Indiana, or, as appropriate, its employees,
officers, agents, consultants, or contractors acting under and within the scope
of authority of the town to carry out and enforce the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 96.02 POLICY.
   A motor vehicle, operated with the permission, expressed, or implied, of the
owner, which is used in the commission of an act where the operator is charged
with any misdemeanor or felony may be subject to seizure and impoundment under
this chapter. The owner is considered to have committed a nuisance in violation
of this chapter regardless of whether the misdemeanor or felony arrest of the
operator is custodial.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 96.03 NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   (A)   The Police Department shall present a copy of the nuisance
determination to the operator of such vehicle if the operator is the owner. If
the vehicle owner is not present, notice shall be mailed to the owner.
   (B)   (1)   When the Police Department orders that a vehicle be towed within
the corporate limits of the town, the designated towing service authorized to
tow the vehicle shall assess against the owner of the towed vehicle a town
administrative/release fee which shall be collected in addition to any and all
other applicable towing charges.
      (2)   Administrative/release fee schedule (only one fee may be charged
per vehicle):
 
Standard fee for vehicle release on a nuisance vehicle $50
 
   (C)   In addition, the designated towing service shall be authorized to
assess against the owner of the towed vehicle a towing administrative fee of
$25 which shall be collected in addition to any and all other applicable towing
charges.
   (D)   The administrative fees authorized by this section shall be itemized
within the towing bill assessed by the designated towing service and collected
by the designated towing service as part of the towing bill.
   (E)   The owner shall be liable for payment for the towing bill before such
vehicle shall be released by the designated towing service.
   (F)   The town administrative fee authorized by division (B) of this section
shall be forwarded by the designated towing service to the Police Department
within 30 days of collection. The Police Department will then remit the town
administrative fee to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, who shall deposit the town
administrative fee into the general fund for appropriation. The towing
administrative fee authorized by division (C) of this section shall be retained
by the designated towing service.
   (G)   If the designated towing service is unable to collect the town
administrative fee due to a vehicle being unclaimed by the owner of record, it
is not liable for providing the uncollected fee to the Police Department.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 96.04 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any vehicle owner receiving notice of a nuisance determination from
the Police Department may appeal in writing within ten days from the date of
the notice of violation by filing an appeal with the Town Marshal or their
designee. Appeals will be heard by the Town Council within 30 days of the date
of receipt of the notice of appeal and the decision of the Town Council shall
be final.
   (B)   Upon appeal, the Town Council may reverse, affirm, or modify the
nuisance determination. For this purpose, the Town Council has all the powers
of the official, officer, or body that issued the nuisance determination.
   (C)   At said appeal hearing, the Town Council shall determine whether
probable cause exists to believe that a violation of this chapter occurred.
Evidence of a determination in the related criminal matter may be considered by
the Town Council but is not necessary for it to reach a decision regarding the
operator's violation of this chapter.
   (D)   If the owner prevails on its appeal to the Town Council, the town
administrative fee shall be refunded to the owner via the Clerk-Treasurer
within 60 days thereafter, and the designating towing service shall refund the
towing administrative fee directly to the owner within the same 60-day period.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 3-5-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   COAL MINING
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for
disapproval of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§ 110.03 or 110.07 shall
have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be taken by
filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the decision has
been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written statement setting
forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the time and place for
a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the person by mail at
his or her last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
Statutory reference:
   Local regulation authorized, see I.C. 25-37-1-11
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk- Treasurer. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during the
time he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
“NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: COAL MINING
Section
   
112.01   Coal mining prohibited
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 COAL MINING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The activity of mining for coal, minerals or mineral substances be and
the same is hereby declared a nuisance within the corporate boundaries of the
town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
coal mining operations or in any activity in which coal, minerals or mineral
substances are mined within the corporate boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 1960, passed 9-27-1960; Ord. 2-77, passed 8-29-1977) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $500 for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed during or on which a violation occurred or
continues.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty for any violation of this chapter set forth
in division (A) above, the Town Council is hereby granted the authority to
institute in the name of the town, injunctive relief in the County Circuit
Court or the County Superior Court prohibiting and restraining any person, firm
or corporation from engaging in coal mining operations or in any activity in
which coal, minerals or mineral substances are mined within the corporate
boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 1960, passed 9-27-1960; Ord. 2-77, passed 8-29-1977)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
   
130.03   Discharging firearms
   
130.04   Public consumption and possession of open container
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply to this chapter:
   FIREARM. As defined by I.C. 35-47-1-5 and means any weapon that is capable
of expelling or designed to expel or that may readily be converted to expel a
project by means of an explosion.
   FIREFIGHTER. A member of the Lynnville Fire Department or any other
certified firefighter from another fire department that is responding to or
assisting the Town of Lynnville in an official capacity.
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The code of ordinances of the Town of Lynnville, Indiana.
   PARK AUTHORITY. As defined in the § 94.15(A) and means the Town Council.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Town Marshal and/or the Lynnville Police Department.
   TOWN. The Town of Lynnville, Indiana, or, as appropriate, its employees,
officers, agents, consultants, or contractors acting under and within the scope
of authority of the town to carry out and enforce the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2024-5, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Interference with public officials. It shall be unlawful for any
person to intentionally impede or interfere or attempt to impede or interfere
with any police officer, firefighter, or any other public official of the town
in the performance of their official duties.
   (B)   Unlawful assemblage. No person or group shall collect or assemble
within a park or upon other public property to:
      (1)   Commit or conspire to commit an unlawful act.
      (2)   For the purpose of inflicting injury to persons or property within
a park or public place.
   (C)   Disturbing the peace, loudness, fighting, riotous tumult, profanity,
and abusive language.
      (1)   No person shall, either by word or act, indulge in any boisterous,
disorderly, or indecent conduct, or in any manner disturb the peace or good
order of the community within a park or upon public property by loud playing of
any electronic device, record player, television, radio, tape recorder,
noisemaker, sound equipment or musical instrument.
      (2)   No person shall engage in fighting, quarreling, or wrangling with
loud voice or shouts, threatening violence to the person or property of others,
or engaging in riotous clamor or tumultuous behavior.
      (3)   No person shall disturb or intrude upon a picnic or gathering in
any park without the consent of those composing the group, except park
employees in the proper performance of their duties.
(Ord. 2024-5, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   Discharge permitted. Discharge of a firearm within the town shall be
permitted only as follows:
      (1)   By a law enforcement officer while acting in the course of official
duty.
      (2)   By a member of the armed forces of the United States or of Indiana,
while acting in the course of official duty.
      (3)   By a person acting with the consent of the Town Council, in the
course of a sanctioned and supervised public event, including but not limited
to military or ceremonial funerals, amateur or professional sporting events and
shooting matches.
      (4)   By a person discharging a weapon at a lawfully operated shooting
range, skeet range, or gun club.
      (5)   By any person lawfully able to possess a firearm that is acting in
self-defense, the defense of their dependents, or defense of others, complying
with I.C. 35-41-3-2, and which does not violate other state or federal laws.
      (6)   On land used or zoned as agricultural property by the owner or
occupant, who resides thereon, or the immediate members of his or her family
who also reside thereon, or by a person having
permission in writing from the owner of such land; and/or
      (7)   On property which contains at least five contiguous acres.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to restrict or otherwise
prohibit the legal possession, purchase, use, or regulation of firearms,
ammunition, or accessories in accordance with Indiana law, the Indiana
Constitution, or the Constitution of the United States.
(Ord. 2024-5, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINER.
   (A)   No person shall consume an alcoholic beverage, or have in his or her
possession any bottle, can, or other receptacle containing any alcoholic
beverage which has been opened, or which has a seal broken, or the contents of
which have been partially removed, upon any public street, alley, sidewalk,
parking lot, park, recreation facility, or beach, in or immediately adjacent to
a public restroom, or other public place within the town except:
      (1)   Within a properly registered and occupied campsite within the
Lynnville Park campgrounds.
      (2)   Within those public parks, beaches, or recreational facilities
designated by resolution of the Town Council as permitting the consumption of
alcoholic beverages.
      (3)   In or on the property of an establishment, business place, or other
location properly licensed for the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages
by the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission; or
      (4)   During a community special event, provided the Park Authority,
after consultation with the Town Marshal, has permitted the consumption of
alcoholic beverages in connection with the special event use of any park or
recreation facility (or any portion thereof) and the event has been issued a
special event permit by the Park Authority. The consumption of alcoholic
beverages shall only be permitted within those areas of the park or recreation
facility so designated by the Park Authority and subject to any additional
constraints imposed by the President of the Park Authority and the Town Marshal
in connection with the issuance of the special events permit.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to relieve any applicant or
event organizer from full compliance with all alcohol beverage control laws and
regulations of the State of Indiana.
   (B)   Warning signs. The Park Authority shall post appropriate signs
advising the public that the consumption of alcohol or the possession of open
containers of alcohol is not permitted in parks and recreation facilities
except for campsites or special events.
(Ord. 2024-5, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter shall be subject
to the following fines:
      (1)   $50 for the first offense.
      (2)   $100 for a second offense.
      (3)   $250 for a third and all subsequent offenses.
   (B)   For purposes of determining repeated violations from division (A), an
additional offense will be considered as any repeat violation of this chapter
that has occurred within the previous 12 month period.
(Ord. 2024-5, passed 3-5-2024)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOODS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   County Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.02   County enforcement
   
150.03   Indiana Unsafe Building Law
§ 150.01 COUNTY BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Town Council believe that it would be in the best interest of the
health, welfare and safety of the residents of the town, that a Building Code,
as required by the law of the state be adopted.
   (B)   The Town Council believes that the best way to provide for such a
Building Code is to adopt the Building Code of the County of Warrick, Indiana,
hereinafter called Code, and become subject to, and bound by, the terms and
conditions of the Code.
   (C)   The Town Council hereby adopts, and incorporates herein, and agrees to
be subject to, all the terms and conditions of the Code.
   (D)   It hereby adopts, by reference, all the rules and regulations, as set
forth in the Code, and hereby authorizes the Building Commissioner, as provided
for in the Code, to establish and enforce all the provisions of the Code,
within the limits of the town.
(Ord. 1988-2, passed 2-2-1988)
§ 150.02 COUNTY ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It is hereby agreed by and between the County of Warrick and the town,
whose agents are signators hereto that:
      (1)   The County of Warrick is the single agency designated to administer
building rules and inspections within the boundaries of the units of government
which are parties hereto;
      (2)   The Building Commissioner of the county is authorized and empowered
to issue building permits, make inspections, order corrections of violations
and to perform such other administerial duties as are commonly performed in the
execution of his or her office on behalf of the parties hereto;
      (3)   Any appeal to a decision by the Building Commissioner of the county
shall lie first with the County Executive pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9 and to the
Fire Prevention Building and Safety Commission as provided for in I.C. 22-12-2-
1 et seq.;
      (4)   Any judicial remedy sought by the Building Commissioner of the
county to enforce his or her lawful orders to obtain compliance with the
building rules of the parties hereto shall be brought to the County Attorney or
Town Attorney of the unit of government within which boundaries a violation
occurs, for disposition; and
      (5)   Such permit fees that are collected by the Building Commissioner of
the county shall be accounted for and deposited in the General Fund of the
county and shall be considered full payment for any inspection services
provided by his or her office of behalf of the parties hereto.
   (B)   This agreement shall become effective upon approval by the Board of
County Commissioners and the Town Board, and upon signing this document by
their Chief Executive Officers.
   (C)   This agreement shall be in effect continuously year to year without
the necessity of a formal renewal by any party thereto, unless terminated by
resolution by the Board of Commissioners or by the Town Board.
(Res. 1988-6-J, passed 2-22-1988)
§ 150.03 UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   (A)   Adoption of the Indiana Unsafe Building Law. The Town hereby adopts
the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, as may be amended from time to time, known as
the Indiana Unsafe Building Law.
   (B)   Administration. There is hereby established an executive department of
the Town of Lynnville to be known as the Code Enforcement Department (the
“Department”). The Department shall administer this section in accordance with
the provisions and procedures set forth in the Indiana Unsafe Building Law. The
Town Council shall designate an employee of the town to serve as the Chief
Administrative Officer of the Department who shall serve as the Enforcement
Authority.
   (C)   Unsafe building and unsafe premises defined. The terms UNSAFE BUILDING
and UNSAFE PREMISES shall have the definitions set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-4 and
are hereby supplemented to include without limitation any building or structure
that has any or all of the following conditions or defects, provided that such
conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or
safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide a safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location.
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location.
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons
or damage property.
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings.
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to wind or earthquake than is required in the case
of similar new construction.
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
lift, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing, or
outside walls or coverings.
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons for
the purpose of committing unlawful acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this town, or of any law or ordinance of this state or town relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings.
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws or ordinances, has any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location.
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or arrangement, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise is determined to be unsanitary, unfit for
human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to cause sickness or
disease.
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits or lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined to be a fire hazard.
      (17)   When any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
   (D)   Substantial property interest. The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY
INTEREST found at I.C. 36-7-9-2, as may be amended, is hereby incorporated by
reference.
   (E)   Hearing authority. The Town Council shall serve as the hearing
authority.
   (F)   Unsafe building fund. An unsafe building fund is hereby established in
the operating budget of the town in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-14.
   (G)   Public nuisance. Unsafe buildings and unsafe premises are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and are therefore also subject to enforcement,
abatement, fines and penalties as provided in Chapter 92.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 8-20-2024)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODS
Section
   
151.01   Participation in the National Flood Insurance Program
§ 151.01 PARTICIPATION IN THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The town has the legal authority to adopt land use and control
measures to reduce future flood losses pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4 and I.C. 14-28-
4.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby:
      (1)   Assures the Federal Insurance Administration that it will enact as
necessary and maintain in force in those areas having flood, mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow), or flood-related erosion hazards, adequate land use and control
measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent with the criteria set
forth in § 59 et seq. of the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.;
      (2)   Vests the Executive Director of the County Area Plan Commission
with the responsibility, authority and means to:
         (a)   Assist the Administrator, at his or her request, in the
delineation of the limits of the area having special flood, mudslide or flood-
related erosion hazards;
         (b)   Provide information the Administrator may request concerning
present uses and occupancy of the floodplain, mudslide or flood-related erosion
areas;
         (c)   Cooperate with federal, state and local agencies and private
firms which undertake to study, survey, map and identify floodplain, mudflow or
flood-related erosion areas, and cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to management of adjoining floodplain, mudslide and/or flood-related
erosion areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards;
         (d)   Submit, on forms provided by the Administrator, an annual report
on the progress made during the past year within the community in the
development and implementation of floodplain management measures; and
         (e)   Upon occurrence, notify the Administrator in writing whenever
the boundaries of the community have been modified by annexation or the
community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations for a particular area. Include an accurate
corporate limit map suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new
corporate limits or new area for which the community has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority. The community will use
the flood insurance rate map or flood hazard boundary map published for the
community from which land areas were annexed or from that political entity that
previously had regulatory authority until the Administrator provides a map
using the new corporate limits.
      (3)   Appoints the Executive Director of the County Area Plan Commission
to maintain for public inspection and to furnish upon request (for determining
flood insurance premium rates), the following information on all new and
substantially improved structures constructed within the identified special
flood hazard area:
         (a)   The actual (as-built) lowest floor (including basement)
elevation in relation to mean sea level;
         (b)   Any certificates of floodproofing;
         (c)   Whether or not a building has a basement; and
         (d)   For all floodproofed structures, the elevation to which the
structure has been floodproofed.
      (4)   Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the program.
(Res. 2012-2, passed 5-1-2012)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
         
III.   FRANCHISES
         
IV.   AGREEMENTS
         
V.   ZONING
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Providing for the annexation of Faith property, a
2001-4        12-5-2001   part of the Southeast Quarter of Section Six,
                          Township Four South, Range Eight West, containing
                          4.542 acres, more or less.
                          Providing for the annexation of various lots in Lynn
2005-12       6-14-2005   Ridge Estates Subdivision Phase I, a part of
                          fractional Section Three, Township Four South, Range
                          Eight West, containing 27.2864 acres, more or less.
                         
 
TABLE II: REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Land agreement between the town and Sentry Royalty
                          Company conveying two deeds of land to give the town
6-1966        6-9-1966    the right to take, pump and remove the upper five
                          feet of water in the lakes or ponds located on said
                          real estate.
                          Authorizing the President and Clerk- Treasurer to
Res. 1986-G-1 1-22-1986   execute of a quit claim deed transferring real estate
                          to Warrick County for an EMS station.
1989-12       9-19-1989   Vacating a public utility easement.
                          Authorizing and entering into a lease of 217 Church
1999-1        2- -1999    Street between the town and Tecumseh Arrows, Inc. for
                          one year and shall continue from year to year.
                          Vacating that portion of Oak Street, 30 feet in
2003-5        8-6-2003    width, between the intersections of Oak Street and
                          Cemetery Road and Oak Street and Third Street in
                          Walnut Grove Subdivision.
Res. 2012-3   10-2-2012   Agreeing to accept certain real estate from the
                          County Department of Parks and Recreation.
2013-2        12-3-2013   Accepting the streets at Lynn Ridge Estates
                          Subdivision Phase II for maintenance by the town.
Res. 2024-1   2-6-2024    Approving a lease between the Town Redevelopment
                          Authority and the Town Redevelopment Commission.
                         
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Authorizing, granting and entering into a franchise
1985G-2       6-6-1985    between the town and Southern Indiana Gas and
                          Electric Company for natural gas sale and service.
                         
 
TABLE IV: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Authorizing execution of an agreement to connect the
1-1965        6-14-1965   school facilities to the waterworks system, when
                          constructed.
                          Authorizing entry into an agreement for cooperative
Res. 1-2-74   5-20-1974   operation of a Southwestern Indiana and Kentucky
                          Regional Council of Governments.
Res. 2002-1   2-20-2002   Authorizing a lease purchase agreement for the
                          purpose of procuring a thermal imaging camera.
                          Interlocal cooperation agreement between Hart
-             5-12-2003   Township and the town to create a Community Center
                          Board to operate the public center facility.
-             6-16-2003   Addendum to the interlocal agreement entered into on
                          5-12-2003, concerning initial appointments.
                          Repealing an ordinance creating a Community Center
                          Board and approving a subsequent interlocal
2004-8        4-6-2004    cooperation agreement with Hart Township and the Town
                          Volunteer Fire Department, providing for the
                          operation of the Community Center by the Town Fire
                          Department.
2005-3        1-18-2005   Interlocal agreement of fire contract for 2005
                          between Hart Township and the town.
Res. 2022-2   9-6-2022    Adopting a contract of employment with a Town
                          Manager.
                          Authorizing the Town Council President to sign a
2022-10       9-20-2022   uniform land or easement acquisition offer from the
                          Indiana Department of Transportation, Parcel 6.
                         
 
TABLE V: ZONING
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2003-6B       11-5-2003   Rezoning Lot 6 Tecumseh Estates Section A from R-
                          O Residential Office to C-1 Neighborhood Commercial.
                          Rezoning a part of fractional Section Three, Township
2010-5        7-8-2010    Four South, Range Eight West, containing 8.4092 acres
                          more or less from C-3 Highway Commercial to PUD
                          (Planned Unit Development).
2017-9        11-21-2017  Rezoning Lot 1 Dollar General Subdivision from R-1 to
                          C-4.
2020-10       9-15-2020   Rezoning part of the north half of Lot 12 from C-4 to
                          R-1A.
2023-6        4-4-2023    Rezoning certain real estate from R-1A to C-1.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section         Code Section
1-1-1-5              10.04
1-1-1-7              10.12
1-1-1-8              10.06
1-1-4-5              10.05
1-1-5-1              10.11
1-1-6-1              10.08
3-10-6               32.02
3-10-7               32.02
3-13-9-3             32.06
5-2-1-9              32.21,
                     32.24
5-3-1                31.072
5-11-1-9(b)          32.04
5-11-1-27(e)         30.02
5-11-10-1.6          35.04
5-11-10-2            35.03
5-14-1.5             31.015
5-14-1.5-3.5         31.019 ,
                     37.005
5-14-1.5-3.6         31.019
5-14-1.5-4(b)        31.019
5-14-1.5-4(c)        31.019
5-14-1.5-6.1         31.016
5-14-3-3             31.016
5-14-3-4(b)(12)      31.016
5-16-9               72.04
6-1.1-17             35.21,
                     35.22
6-1.1-17-3           35.20
6-3.6-2-14           35.70
8-1-26               93.09
8-1.5-3 et seq.      50.02
8-1.5-3-4            50.02
8-1.5-3-4(d)         50.01
8-14-1               35.07
8-14-2               35.07
8-22-2               31.016
8-22-3               31.016
8-23-1-33            71.05
8-23-4               90.07
9-13-2-1             90.02
9-13-2-6             70.01
9-13-2-8             90.02
9-13-2-16            90.02
9-13-2-47            70.01
9-13-2-49.3          70.01
9-13-2-56            70.01
9-13-2-63            90.02
9-13-2-73            70.01
9-13-2-77            70.01
9-13-2-84            70.01
9-13-2-105(a)        70.01
9-13-2-105(b)        70.01
9-13-2-108           70.01
9-13-2-118           70.01
9-13-2-121           70.01,
                     90.02
9-13-2-122           90.02
9-13-2-136           90.02
9-13-2-144           90.02
9-13-2-155           70.01
9-13-2-157           70.01
9-13-2-171           71.05
9-13-2-178           70.01
9-13-2-179           90.02
9-13-2-181           71.05
9-13-2-196(a)        70.01
9-13-2-196(c)        90.02
9-17-2-12            70.02
9-18-2               90.02
9-18-2.5             90.02
9-18-12              90.03
9-18.1               90.02
9-18.1-8             90.03
9-18.1-14            73.32,
                     90.02
9-18.1-14.5          70.01
9-18.5-8             72.04
9-18.5-18            72.04
9-18.5-34            90.03
9-19                 70.01
9-21-1-3             Ch. 71,
                     Ch. 72
9-21-5-6             Ch. 71
9-21-12-13           70.01
9-21-20-1            70.01
9-21-20-2            70.01
9-21-20-3            70.01
9-22-1               90.04
9-22-1-1             90.03
9-22-1-2             90.02
9-22-1-4             90.04,
                     90.08
9-22-1-5             90.05
9-22-1-7             90.05
9-22-1-8             90.05
9-22-1-11            90.07
9-22-1-12            90.07
9-22-1-13            90.07
9-22-1-14            90.07
9-22-1-15            90.06
9-22-1-16(a)         90.06
9-22-1-16(b)         90.06
9-22-1-17            90.06
9-22-1-18            90.07
9-22-1-19            90.08
9-22-1-21.5          90.11
9-22-1-31            90.09
9-22-1-32            90.10
9-22-6               90.04,
                     90.11
10-14-3-12           37.05
10-14-3-29           37.05
13-22                31.072
13-23                31.072
13-24                31.072
13-25-4              31.072
13-25-5              31.072
13-25-5-8.5(f)       31.072
Chapter, 14, Title 5 37.005
14-16-1              73.30,
                     73.37
14-16-1-20(c)        73.30
14-16-1-21           73.33
14-16-1-23           73.34
14-16-1-23(a)(7)     73.38
14-16-1-24           73.36
14-28-4              151.01
16-18-2-110          70.01
16-22-8              70.01
20-29-6-7            31.016
22-9-1-4 et seq.     95.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.     95.01
22-9.5-2-2           95.02
22-9.5-2-3           95.02
22-9.5-2-4           95.02
22-9.5-2-8           95.02
22-9.5-2-9           95.02
22-9.5-2-11          95.02
22-9.5-2-13          95.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.     95.10
22-9.5-3             95.03
22-9.5-4-8           95.99
22-9.5-5             95.02
22-9.5-5-1           95.03
22-9.5-6             95.02,
                     95.99
22-12-2-1 et seq.    150.02
22-12-8-2            52.99
Title 25             31.016
25-37-1-11           Ch. 111
33-35-1              36.09
33-35-3-1            32.03
33-35-3-2            32.03
33-36-2              36.09
33-36-2-1            36.01,
                     36.02
33-36-2-2            36.02
33-36-2-3            36.03
33-36-2-4            36.09
33-36-3              36.03
33-36-3-1            36.04
33-36-3-2            36.05
33-36-3-3            36.06
33-36-3-5            36.07
33-36-3-6            36.08
33-36-3-7            36.09
33-37                36.08
33-37-4              36.08
33-37-7-6            36.08
34-13-3-1 et seq.    37.015,
                     37.016
34-13-3-12           37.016
35-41-3-2            130.03
35-44.1-1-4          37.074
35-47-1-5            130.01
35-47-5-13(a)        32.25
35-50-3-4            Ch. 74, Sch. IV
36-1-3-8(a)(10)      10.99
36-1-5               Adopting Ordinance
36-1-5-4             37.003
36-1-6            92.02
36-1-6-2             92.11
36-1-6-4             92.10
36-1-7               32.06
36-1-10              31.016
36-1-11              31.016
36-1-20.2            37.003
36-1-21              37.003
36-5-2-3(a)          31.001
36-5-2-3(b)          31.001
36-5-2-3(c)          31.001
36-5-2-3(d)          31.001
36-5-2-3(e)          31.001
36-5-2-3(f)          31.001
36-5-2-3(g)          31.001
36-5-2-4.1           31.072
36-5-2-4.2           31.071
36-5-2-6             31.002
36-5-2-7             31.004
36-5-2-8             31.021
36-5-2-9             31.002
36-5-2-9.2           31.020
36-5-2-9.4(a)        31.070
36-5-2-9.4(b)        31.071
36-5-2-9.6           31.070
36-5-2-9.8           31.071
36-5-2-10            31.072
36-5-2-10.2          31.073
36-5-3-3             35.20
36-5-3-4             35.21
36-5-3-5             35.22
36-5-3-7             38.01
36-5-4-2             35.01
36-5-4-3             35.02
36-5-4-4             35.03
36-5-4-6             35.04
36-5-4-7             35.05
36-5-4-12            35.06
36-5-4-13(b)         35.07
36-5-6-2             32.03
36-5-6-3(a)          32.01
36-5-6-3(b)          32.02
36-5-6-3(c)          32.02
36-5-6-3(d)          32.02
36-5-6-3(e)          32.02
36-5-6-3(f)          32.02
36-5-6-4             32.02
36-5-6-5             32.03
36-5-6-5.1           32.05
36-5-6-6             32.03
36-5-6-7             32.04
36-5-6-8             32.04
36-5-6-9             32.06
36-5-6.5             32.03
36-5-7-2             32.20
36-5-7-3             32.21
36-5-7-4             32.21
36-5-7-5             32.23
36-5-7-6             32.24
36-5-7-7             32.25
36-7                 31.071,
                     31.072
36-7-4               151.01
36-7-8-9             150.02
36-7-9               92.05,
                     150.03
36-7-9-2             150.03
36-7-9-4             150.03
36-7-9-14            150.03
36-7-14-6.1(a)       33.40
36-7-14-6.1(d)       33.40
36-8                 32.21,
                     32.24
36-8-3            38.02
36-8-19              34.01
36-9-30-3            90.07
                     33.15,
                     33.21,
36-10-3-1 et seq.    33.22,
                     33.23,
                     33.26
36-10-3-8            33.18
36-10-3-14           33.20
36-10-3-15           33.20
36-10-5-2            94.15
                     
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1        - -         51.01
1-2-74   5-20-1974   TSO IV
3,1985   - -1985     35.50
1986-G-1 1-22-1986   TSO II
1988-6-J 2-22-1988   150.02
–      8-17-1994   37.050—
                     37.057
2002-1   2-20-2002   TSO IV
2007-03  2-6-2007    34.01
2012-2   5-1-2012    151.01
2012-3   10-2-2012   TSO II
2015-1   8-18-2015   53.01
2015-2   11-3-2015   53.01
2021-2   11-1-2021   37.004
2022-2   9-6-2022    TSO IV
2022-4   11-7-2022   37.001
2023-5   5-16-2023   32.09
2024-1   2-6-2024    TSO II
2024-11  12-3-2024   37.05
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
1960       9-27-1960   112.01,
                       112.99
2-1962     12-3-1962   Ch. 75, Sch. I
3          12-3-1962   33.01
1-1965     6-14-1965   TSO IV
3-1965     10-2-1965   51.15
–        6-9-1966    TSO II
167A       8-28-1967   11.01
167B       9-23-1969   11.01
2-77       8-29-1977   112.01,
                       112.99
1-79, 1979 2-19-1979   Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2-1981     2-9-1981    52.45—
                       52.55
                       52.15—
3-1981     2-9-1981    52.30,
                       52.99
1-1-1982   7-20-1982   52.01,
                       52.99
5-1-1985   5-21-1985   51.15
1985G-2    6-6-1985    TSO III
3-2-87     - -1987     33.15—
                       33.26
1987-G-1   8-18-1987   35.69
1987-1-5   11-3-1987   52.47,
                       52.49
1988-2     2-2-1988    150.01
7-88       8-16-1988   50.03
2-89       - -1989     51.15
1989-G-1   2-21-1989   70.02
1-89       4-18-1989   52.47,
                       52.49
1989-12    9-19-1989   TSO II
1-90       - -1990     51.15
1990-5-1   1-3-1990    52.47,
                       52.49
1990-5     4-18-1990   51.15
1993-4     9-1-1993    52.01,
                       52.99
1995-3     6-19-1995   51.15
1996-2     6-19-1996   52.47,
                       52.49
1997-2     3- -1997    71.05,
                       71.99
1999-1     2- -1999    TSO II
2001-1     6-25-2001   32.08
2001-2     8-1-2001    35.67
PK2001-3   8-7-2001    35.68
2001-4     12-5-2001   TSO I
2002-4     2-6-2002    53.02
2002-2     2-20-2002   32.07
2,2003     3- -2003    94.01
2003-5     8-6-2003    TSO II
2003-6B    11-5-2003   TSO V
2004-19    - -2004     52.47
2004-20    - -2004     51.15
2004-5     3-2-2004    35.66
2004-8     4-6-2004    TSO IV
2004-9     4-6-2004    35.65
2004-13    9-20-2004   51.15
2004-14    9-20-2004   50.02
2004-15    10-5-2004   37.002
2004-16    10-5-2004   31.018
2005-3     1-18-2005   TSO IV
2005-1     2-15-2005   51.15
2005-2     2-15-2005   52.47
                       37.070—
                       37.077,
                       37.080,
–        3-1-2005    37.082,
                       37.083,
                       37.085,
                       37.086,
                       37.088
2005-12    6-14-2005   TSO I
2005-16    9-27-2005   35.35—
                       35.37
2006-5     1-3-2006    52.50
2006-10    7-5-2006    52.47
2006-11    7-5-2006    51.15
2006-14    9-5-2006    51.15
2006-17    12-18-2006  30.15
2006-18    12-18-2006  30.16
2006-19    12-18-2006  32.07
2007-02    2-6-2007    34.01
2007-05    5-1-2007    52.50
2007-11    8-7-2007    51.15
2007-12    8-7-2007    94.15—
                       94.19
2007-9     8-27-2007   52.47
2008-2     7-1-2008    51.15
2008-3     9-2-2008    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2009-3     1-5-2010    51.15
2010-4     7-8-2010    71.04,
                       71.99
2010-5     7-8-2010    TSO V
2011-2     9-6-2011    51.15
2012-2     7-3-2012    37.003
2012-5     10-30-2012  52.47
2013-2     12-3-2013   TSO II
2014-2     2-11-2014   37.030—
                       37.036
2014-4     3-4-2014    30.17
2015-3     4-21-2015   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2016-2     5-3-2016    37.002
                       95.01—
2016-3     7-19-2016   95.10,
                       95.99
2016-5     10-18-2016  30.02
2016-6     11-1-2016   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2016-7     12-1-2016   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2017-2     2-7-2017    34.02
                       73.30—
2017-3     7-5-2017    73.44,
                       73.99
                       73.01—
2017-4     7-5-2017    73.16,
                       73.99
2017-5     8-5-2017    73.07
2017-7     8-15-2017   52.50
2017-9     11-21-2017  TSO V
2017-10    12-19-2017  51.15
2018-5     11-7-2018   52.47
                       33.19,
2020-1     12-17-2019  37.082,
                       37.083
2020-2     1-7-2020    33.19,
                       37.083
–        1-21-2020   37.070—
                       37.088
2020-3     2-18-2020   51.15
2020-4     6-1-2020    35.80
2020-7     7-14-2020   Adopting Ordinance
2020-8     8-4-2020    51.02
2020-10    9-15-2020   TSO V
2021-6     7-20-2021   93.07—
                       93.12
2021-8     9-7-2021    Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2021-10    9-21-2021   35.70
2021-11    9-21-2021   35.71
2022-2     3-1-2022    35.38
2022-6     6-7-2022    35.72
2022-7     6-7-2022    35.85 -
                       35.87
2022-10    9-30-2022   TSO IV
2023-2     1-3-2023    35.73
2023-3     4-18-2023   51.15
2023-4     4-18-2023   52.47,
                       52.49
2023-5     5-16-2023   72.05
2023-6     4-4-2023    TSO V
2023-7     6-20-2023   33.40
2023-8     6-20-2023   52.30,
                       52.99
2023-9     11-21-2023  72.06,
                       72.99
2023       - -2024     51.15
2024-2     2-6-2024    94.02
2024-3     3-5-2024    38.01 -
                       38.05
2024-4     3-5-2024    96.01 -
                       96.04
                       130.01 -
2024-5     3-5-2024    130.04,
                       130.99
2024-6     5-6-2024    35.69
2024-7     8-20-2024   150.03
2024-8     8-20-2024   92.01 -
                       92.12
2024-10    8-20-2024   51.15
                      
 
