TOWN OF MIDDLEBURY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. MD690, passed 8-7-2023
State legislation current through 2023 Legislative Service, Pamphlet #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
Adopting Ordinance
ORDINANCE NO. 608
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF MIDDLEBURY, INDIANA,
CODIFYING, REVISING REARRANGING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN OF ITS EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES, ORDERS, AND RESOLUTIONS AND DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, Indiana Code 36-1-5-3 requires the legislative body of a unit to
codify, revise, rearrange, and compile the ordinances of the unit into a
complete, simplified code excluding formal parts of the ordinances;
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana, has authorized
a general codification, revision, rearrangement, and compilation of the
ordinances of the Town of Middlebury of a general and permanent nature, along
with certain order's and resolutions of a general and permanent nature, and
have authorized publication of the same as a complete, simplified code in book
and electronic form;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, ORDERED AND ESTABLISHED by the Town Council
of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana as follows:
   1.   The general ordinances, orders, and resolutions of the Town of
Middlebury, Indiana as codified, revised, rearranged, and compiled in book
form, including the 2018 S-1 Supplement, as attached hereto are hereby adopted
as and constitute the “Middlebury, Indiana, Code of Ordinances” which may also
be referred to by the shorter title of the “Middlebury Town Code.” Two copies
of the Middlebury Town Code will be on file in the office of the Middlebury
Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection. The Middlebury Town Code may also be
made available electronically, including online.
   2.   The Middlebury Town Code as adopted herein consists of the following
titles:
      Title I      General Provisions
      Title III   Administration
      Title V      Public Works
      Title VII   Traffic Code
      Title IX   General Regulations
      Title XI   Business Regulations
      Title XIII   General Offenses
      Title XV   Land Usage
   3.   All prior ordinances, orders, and resolutions of a general and
permanent nature pertaining to the subjects contained in or covered by the
Middlebury Town Code are deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this Ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in the Middlebury Town Code, and except that:
      a.   This repeal does not affect any offense committed, penalty incurred,
or right established prior to the effective date of this Ordinance;
      b.   This repeal does not affect the provisions of ordinances, orders, or
resolutions levying taxes; appropriating money; approving budgets; creating
funds; annexing or disannexing territory; establishing precincts; establishing
franchises, licenses, or leases, or granting special rights to certain persons;
authorizing public improvements; authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money; authorizing tax sales and the purchase or sale of real or personal
property; granting or accepting easements; platting or dedicating land to
public use; or vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public
places;
      c.   This repeal does not affect any ordinance, order, or resolution of a
temporary or special nature; and
      d.   This repeal does not affect any ordinance, order, or resolution
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Middlebury Town Code.
   4.   The Middlebury Town Code will be filed in the office of the Middlebury
Clerk-Treasurer.
   5.   The Middlebury Town Code is in full force and effect, and the
Middlebury Town Code constitutes presumptive evidence in any and all legal
proceedings and places:
      a.   Of the provisions of the Middlebury Town Code;
      b.   Of the date of adoption of the Middlebury Town Code;
      c.   That the Middlebury Town Code has been properly signed, attested,
recorded, and approved; and
      d.   That any public hearings required have been held, with any notices
required given.
   6.   The Middlebury Town Code as adopted herein, and as supplemented by the
2018 S-1 Supplement, is limited to legislation passed through February 19,
2018.
   7.   To the extent any errors or omissions exist in the Middlebury Town Code
as adopted herein with respect to typographical, spelling, grammar,
punctuation, or any inconsistency with the underlying legislation serving as
the source material for the Middlebury Town Code, the underlying legislation
serving as the source for the Middlebury Town Code may be examined to make the
necessary correction in the Middlebury Town Code regardless of any repeal or
deemed repeal of the underlying legislation with the adoption of the Middlebury
Town Code as originally adopted or subsequently amended.
   ORDAINED AND ADOPTED this 18st day of June, 2018.
                                 TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF
                                 MIDDLEBURY, INDIANA
                                 By:  \s\ Gary L O’Dell
                                 Gary L. O’Dell, President
ATTEST:
By:  \s\ Peggy A Hutchinson
Peggy A. Hutchinson, Middlebury Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 608-A
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING THE 2019 S-2 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF MIDDLEBURY, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, Indiana Code 36-1-5-3 requires the legislative body of a unit to
codify, revise, rearrange, or compile the ordinances of the unit into a
complete, simplified code excluding formal parts of the ordinances;
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana, adopted
Ordinance No. 608 on June 18, 2018, entitled “An Ordinance Enacting a Code of
Ordinances for the Town of Middlebury, Indiana, Codifying, Revising,
Rearranging, and Compiling Certain of its Existing General Ordinances, Orders,
and Resolutions and Dealing with Subjects Embraced in such Code of Ordinances;”
   WHEREAS, the Code of Ordinances is also referred to by the shorter title of
the Middlebury Town Code;
   WHEREAS, the Middlebury Town Code codified, revised, rearranged, and
compiled the ordinances, orders, and resolutions of a general and permanent
nature of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana pertaining to the subjects contained
in or covered by the Middlebury Town Code with two printed copies of the
Middlebury Town Code on file in the Office of the Middlebury Clerk Treasurer
for public inspection, and an electronic copy has been made available online;
   WHEREAS, the Middlebury Town Code as initially enacted by the Code Adopting
Ordinance including the 2018 S-1 Supplement was current through the Middlebury
Town ordinances, orders, and resolutions passed on or before February 19, 2018;
   WHEREAS, a new supplement to the Middlebury Town Code titled the “2019 S-
2 Supplement” has been prepared to incorporate Town of Middlebury ordinances,
orders, and resolutions of a general and permanent nature passed on or before
March 18, 2019, pertaining to the subjects contained in or covered by the
Middlebury Town Code with a copy of the 2019 S-2 Supplement pages attached
hereto as Exhibit A beginning with instruction sheets detailing the
appropriated insertion of new pages into the Middlebury Town Code and removal
of old pages from the Middlebury Town Code;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, ORDERED, AND ESTABLISHED by the Town Council
of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana that:
   1.   The 2019 S-2 Supplement is adopted and incorporated into the Middlebury
Town Code.
   2.   Two copies of the Middlebury Town Code, as supplemented by the 2019 S-
2 Supplement and prior supplements, will be on file in the office of the
Middlebury Clerk Treasurer for public inspection. An electronic copy will also
be available online.
   3.   The Middlebury Town Code, as supplemented by the 2019 S-2 Supplement
and prior supplements, continues in full force and effect, and it continues to
constitute presumptive evidence in any legal proceedings and places:
      a.   Of its provisions;
      b.   Of its date of adoption;
      c.   That it has been properly signed, attested, recorded, and approved;
and
      d.   That any public hearings required have been held, with any notices
required given.
   ORDAINED AND ADOPTED this 15th day of July, 2019.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF
   MIDDLEBURY, INDIANA
   By:  \s\ Gary L O’Dell
   Gary L. O’Dell, President
ATTEST:
By:  \s\ Peggy A Hutchinson
Peggy A. Hutchinson, Middlebury Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town Code” “Code
of Ordinances” or “Codified Ordinances” or “Code” may also be substituted for
“Town Code.” Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana.
      COUNTY. Elkhart County.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, firm, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, limited liability partnership, trustee,
association, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next preceding or next following that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Middlebury, Indiana.
      TOWN COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The Town Council of Middlebury, Indiana.
      TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of the town.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a reasonably
prompt performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in 1985 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1985 Code, §
     )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Middlebury Day
   
11.02   Incorporation of Middlebury
   
11.03   Town Seal
§ 11.01 MIDDLEBURY DAY.
   September 10 is designated as Middlebury Day.
(1985 Code, § 1-1-10-1)
§ 11.02 INCORPORATION OF MIDDLEBURY.
   Now comes Andrew Elliot and presents the report of an election held in the
town on the June 19, 1868, verified by affidavit of the Inspector thereof
showing that 95 votes were cast at such election, and that 65 votes were in
favor of said town being incorporated and that 30 votes were opposed to said
town being incorporated, and now comes Joseph B. Carroll and remonstrators
against the incorporation of said town on the ground that said election was
illegal and moves this Board to dismiss the case and the Board on due
consideration overrules the motion and orders that said town is duly
incorporated by the name of Middlebury by the boundaries specified in the
petition by the citizens of said town and defined in the June term 1868 of this
Board.
(1985 Code, App. I)
§ 11.03 TOWN SEAL.
   The Board adopts a common seal bearing the words: A circle with the word
“SEAL” centered, with one bar centered above that word and another bar centered
below it, all surrounded by a beaded ring, with the words “TOWN CLERK” and
“TOWN OF MIDDLEBURY, IND.” circling the top and bottom, respectively, of the
beaded ring, with two additional rings surrounding the aforementioned words.
(1985 Code, § 36-5-2-9)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATION
      
32.   TOWN POLICIES
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Abolishing election districts pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2
   
30.02   Council member terms
   
30.03   Joining the County Public Safety Communications System District
   
30.04   Home rule
   
30.05   Primary elections
§ 30.01 ABOLISHING ELECTION DISTRICTS PURSUANT TO I.C. 36-5-2.
   (A)   Town legislative body districts, also sometimes referred to as
election districts, for election of members of the Town Council are abolished
effective January 1, 2003. All members of the Town Council shall be elected at
large.
   (B)   Effective January 1, 2003, candidates for the Town Council and members
of the Town Council shall no longer be required to be residents of a particular
district but must be residents of the town.
   (C)   The terms of office for the existing seats on the Town Council shall
remain in place, in effect, and unchanged by this section.
(Ord. 419, passed 11-4-2002)
§ 30.02 COUNCIL MEMBER TERMS.
   (A)   The two persons elected to the Town Council, as representatives of
districts number two and four, in the 1983 general election, shall serve an
initial term of but three years, commencing on date of qualification, at such
time after January 1, 1984 as such qualification shall occur, and continuing
through December 31, 1986, or until a successor is qualified; said three-year
limitation of said initial term shall apply to substitutes to, or successors
to, the persons initially elected to the Town Council from districts two and
four.
   (B)   During the calendar year 1986 primary and general elections shall be
conducted, according to the state election laws then in force and effect, in
the town, so as to elect persons as members of the Town Council, from districts
two and four, for terms in office to commence on or about January 1, 1987, upon
qualification for the office; the persons so elected in 1986, to commence
office in 1987, or their successors or substitutes, shall serve four-year terms
in office, and elections as to such, positions on the Town Council, from
districts two and four, shall be held each four years thereafter, as required
by law.
   (C)   The positions to the Town Council, from districts one, three and five,
shall continue to be elected every four years hereafter, commencing with the
general elections of 1983.
   (D)   All other election qualifications, standards or procedures heretofore
applying to elections to membership on the Town Council, at either the primary
or general elections, shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 192, passed 7-6-1982)
§ 30.03 JOINING THE COUNTY PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM DISTRICT.
   (A)   Joining of the County Public Safety Communications Systems District.
The town hereby elects to and does join the County Public Safety Communications
Systems District, and hereby elects to have its public safety agency served by
the District.
   (B)   Effective date. 
      (1)   Though this section is being adopted as of the date set forth
below, it is the intention and declaration of the Town Council that this
section be treated as being effective prior to July 1, 1986, and to be binding
upon the town for the calendar year 1987, and the budgetary process therefor
undertaken during the calendar year 1986.
      (2)   In specifying the effective date of this section, the Town Council
acknowledges that it was unaware of the otherwise existing deadline of July 1,
1986 by which it was to elect to join the County Public Safety Communications
Systems District for the calendar year 1987.
(Ord. 236, passed 8-4-1986)
§ 30.04 HOME RULE.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the town “Home Rule” section, pursuant to I.C.
36-1-3-1 et seq.
   (B)   The town may exercise any power or perform any function necessary to
the public interest in the conduct of its internal affairs, which is not
prohibited by the State Constitution or the United States Constitution, or
denied or preempted by any other law or is not vested by any other law in any
other town, county or state entity, special purpose district or municipal or
school corporation.
   (C)   The town shall support all actions, projects and programs in the
public interest of its citizens, if those action, projects and programs are
authorized under “Home Rule” powers or the performance of those functions are
reasonable and practical under the circumstances.
   (D)   The Council may budget and appropriate funds to provide for town
membership and the membership of town elected and appointed officials and
members of its boards, councils, departments or agencies in local, regional,
state and national associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature,
which have as their purpose the betterment and improvement of town operations.
   (E)   The Council may budget and appropriate funds to pay the expenses of
duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and functions of
organizations to which the town belongs.
(1985 Code, § 36-1-3-1)
Statutory history:
   Application of home rule chapter, see I.C. 36-1-3-1
§ 30.05 PRIMARY ELECTIONS.
   (A)   During the calendar year of 2022, and for every municipal election
year thereafter, major political party candidates for town offices must be
nominated using the primary election process.
   (B)   All primary elections held must be carried out pursuant to state
election laws.
   (C)   The Election Board of Elkhart County will conduct the primary
elections for the Town of Middlebury.
(Ord. 666, passed 12-20-2021)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATION
Section
   
31.01   Police reserve officers
   
31.02   Town Marshal and Deputy Marshals
   
31.03   County Plan Commission
   
31.04   Department of Redevelopment
   
31.05   Department of Economic Development
   
31.06   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
31.07   Title VI Coordinator
§ 31.01 POLICE RESERVE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20, the town hereby specifically creates,
recognizes and ratifies the position of “police reserve officer.”
   (B)   The number of police reserve officers appointed for the town shall be
ten, although it is specifically contemplated that such number may be increased
or decreased by subsequent action of the Town Council.
   (C)   Appointment as a police reserve officer for the town shall be made by
the Town Council, pursuant to such reasonable and appropriate standards as the
Town Council may from time to time establish and implement. A police reserve
officer may not be appointed until the officer has completed any training and
probationary period specified by the rules and regulations of the Town Police
Department.
   (D)   Police reserve officers appointed for the town shall not be and shall
not be deemed members of the regular Town Police Department; provided, however,
police reserve officers so appointed shall have the same police powers as
regular Town Police Department officers, except as limited by the rules of the
Town Police Department and the Town Marshal as now existing or hereafter
established.
   (E)   A police reserve officer appointed for the town may serve in a
secondary employment position as a police reserve officer subject to the prior
written approval of the Town Marshal. When so approved, a town police reserve
officer may use Town Police Department issued equipment and uniform and may
exercise police powers while serving in a secondary employment position. If not
so approved by the Town Marshal, a police reserve officer appointed for the
town shall not have nor exercise any police powers while serving in a secondary
employment position, and no Town Police Department issued equipment shall be
used or carried nor a Town Police Department uniform worn while performing in a
secondary employment position. For purposes of this section, a SECONDARY
EMPLOYMENT POSITION shall be defined as serving as a full-time or part-time
employee, serving as an independent contractor, serving as a volunteer, or
otherwise serving outside the regular duties assigned by the Town Police
Department as a security guard, security officer, loss prevention officer, risk
manager, or in any other private capacity.
   (F)   (1)   A police reserve officer appointed for the town after June 30,
1993 may not:
         (a)   Make an arrest;
         (b)   Conduct a search or a seizure of a person or property; or
         (c)   Carry a firearm;
      (2)   Unless the police reserve officer successfully completes a pre-
basic course under I.C. 5-2-1-9, as amended. The police reserve officers
appointed for the town on or before June 30, 1993 shall not be subject to this
pre-basic course requirement.
   (G)   Police reserve officers for the town may be paid an annual uniform
allowance in an amount established by the Town Council as a part of the regular
budgetary process which uniform allowance shall be paid in intervals convenient
to the Town Marshal and the Town Clerk. Police reserve officers may receive
such additional compensation as is permitted by law to the extent that money is
appropriated for such purpose by the Town Council.
   (H)   Police reserve officers for the town shall be governed by the rules
and regulations of the Town Police Department as such rules and regulations are
established from time to time by the Town Marshal and the Town Council.
   (I)   Police reserve officers are not eligible to participate in any pension
program provided for regular members of the Town Police Department.
   (J)   Police reserve officers may be covered by the medical treatment and
burial expense provisions of the worker’s compensation law (I.C. 22-3-2 through
I.C. 22-3-6) and the worker’s occupational diseases law (I.C. 22-3-7) if and
only if the town obtains insurance coverage for police reserve officers, from
time to time, for such benefits. Coverage for police reserve officers in such
situations shall be limited to the benefits available under the insurance
policy or policies obtained. The town does not assume and shall not be
responsible directly for the medical treatment and burial expense provisions of
the worker’s compensation law and the worker’s occupational diseases law beyond
the benefits afforded by any available insurance policy in place from time to
time.
   (K)   This section shall be in full force and effect immediately upon its
passage and shall be applicable to all town police reserve officers for the
remainder of calendar year 2012 and all years thereafter, except as this
section shall hereafter be amended or repealed.
(Ord. 404, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 404-A, passed 4-16-2012)
§ 31.02 TOWN MARSHAL AND DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is hereby authorized to appoint Deputy Marshals.
   (B)   Said deputies, in executing the orders of the Town Council or
enforcing the ordinances of the town, shall possess the powers and be subject
to the liabilities of the Town Marshal.
   (C)   Said deputies shall be appointed by the Town Marshal and shall be
subject to the orders of said Marshal who may discharge them at any time.
   (D)   The amount of bond, compensation and term of service of the deputies
shall be set by the Town Council, and may be changed from time to time in the
sole discretion of the Town Council.
(Ord. 151, passed 5-7-1973)
§ 31.03 COUNTY PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Plan Commission be designated as the Municipal Plan
Commission for the town and the citizens thereof; further, that save for
specific exceptions hereinafter stated, all zoning and planning related
ordinances, and all procedures, programs and policies heretofore or hereafter
adopted, and now or hereafter placed in force and effect by the County Plan
Commission, or by the Board of Commissioners of the County, as the legislative
body of the county, to include a comprehensive plan and ordinance therefor, and
a zoning ordinance, be, and the same hereby are, made binding upon the town,
the citizens thereof, and all real estate situated therein.
   (B)   The legislative function of dividing the town into districts of such
kind, character, number, shape and area, as contemplated by I.C. 36-7-4-601, be
retained and carried out by the Town Council, consistent with the rules,
regulations and ordinances otherwise adopted by or for the County Plan
Commission, County Board of Zoning Appeals, and staffs therefor; further, that
all such districts or designations heretofore adopted by the Town Council be,
and the same are, hereby continued in full force and effect until amended or
repealed by action of the Town Council taken under authority of the Advisory
Planning Law of the state.
   (C)   The Town Council reserves the right, ability and authority to
establish and promulgate rules, regulations and/or standards for the platting
and/or subdividing of real estate partly or wholly within the corporate limits
of the town, to include rules, regulations and/or standards pertaining to
streets, curbs, water, sewer and other utility and municipal services; that
said rules, regulations and/or standards, upon promulgation, shall be forwarded
to the County Plan Commission for incorporation with other rules, regulations
and/or standards as to plats and subdivisions established by or enforced by
said Commission; that no plat and/or subdivision of real estate situate partly
or wholly within the corporate limits of the town shall be effective until the
same has been approved by the Town Council after public hearing(s) before the
County Plan Commission, as by law provided.
(Ord. 186, passed 9-2-1980)
§ 31.04 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council now deems it to be in the best interest of the town
and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation,
redevelopment or economic development of areas by private enterprise and the
town by establishing a department of redevelopment.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Department of Redevelopment of
the town. The Department will be controlled by a board of five members known as
the Town Redevelopment Commission.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act, all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the town will be a special taxing district to be known as the
Town Redevelopment District for the purpose of levying and collecting special
benefit taxes for redevelopment and economic development purposes as provided
in the Act. The Town Council finds and determines that all of the taxable
property within this special taxing district will be considered to be
benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic development projects
carried out under the Act to the extent of the special taxes levied under the
Act.
   (D)   (1)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint three of the
five members of the Town Redevelopment Commission. The Town Council shall
appoint two of the five members of the Town Redevelopment Commission.
      (2)   The initial term of office of the members of the Town Redevelopment
Commission shall commence from the date of their appointment and expire on
January 1, 2003.
(Ord. 398, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 31.05 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Town Economic Development Commission to
carry out the duties, powers and provisions of I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq., as
amended, together with any future amendments.
   (B)   Three members shall be appointed to said Commission, one member to be
selected by the President of the Town Council, one member to be nominated by
the County Council and one member to be nominated by the Town Council. Said
nominations shall be made within 15 days after the adoption of this section,
and each nominee shall be appointed by the President of the Town Council within
ten days after such nominations are made.
(Ord. 170, passed 10-3-1977)
§ 31.06 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3 there is hereby created a Town
Department of Parks and Recreation, to be managed and governed by the Town Park
and Recreation Board.
      (2)   The Town Park and Recreation Board shall be composed of five
members.
         (a)   Four members shall be appointed by the Town Council President on
the basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation.
         (b)   No more than two of such members may be affiliated with the same
political party.
         (c)   The fifth member of the Town Park and Recreation Board shall be
an ex officio member. The ex officio member shall be a member of the Town
Community School Board, to be selected by the Town Community School Board or an
individual designated by the Town Community School Board. The ex officio member
selected or designated by the Town Community School Board shall serve on the
Town Park and Recreation Board for a term of four years with the term of the
initial appointee to expire on the first Monday of January, 2011. Subsequent
terms shall expire on the first Monday of January every four years thereafter.
The ex officio member shall have all of the rights of a regular member of the
Town Park and Recreation Board, including the right to vote. A vacancy in the
ex officio position shall be filled by the Town Community School Board. All
members of the Town Park and Recreation Board must be residents of the town,
except for ex officio members who must be residents of the Township of
Middlebury, Indiana.
      (3)   (a)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms initially
appointed shall be:
            1.   One member for a term of one year;
            2.   One member for a term of two years;
            3.   One member for a term of three years; and
            4.   One member for a term of four years.
         (b)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the
Town Council President for a term of four years.
            1.   All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member
shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
            2.   If an appointment for a new term is not made by the Town
Council President by the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve
another term.
            3.   If a vacancy occurs, the Town Council President shall appoint
a new member for the remainder of the unexpired term. All initial terms (for
one year, two years, three years and four years as above stated) shall actually
expire as of the first Monday of January of 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999
respectively.
      (4)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
President and Vice President. The Vice President shall have authority to act as
the president of the Board during the absence or disability of the President.
The Board may select a secretary from within or without its own membership.
      (5)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have all the powers listed in I.C. 36-10-3 et seq.
      (6)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same
manner as other departments of town government, as prescribed by the State
Board of Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park
and recreation purposes.
   (B)   Non-Reverting Capital Fund. The Town Council, does hereby, acting upon
the request previously received of the Town Park and Recreation Board, create a
Special Non-Reverting Capital Fund pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-20 for the purposes
of acquiring land or making specific capital improvements; further, pursuant to
I.C. 36-10-3-18, the Town Council hereby creates for use by the Town Park and
Recreation Board a special non-reverting fund to be available for expenditures
for purposes specified by persons donating money to said fund.
(Ord. 176, passed 1-9-1978; Ord. 330A, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 330B, passed 4-2-
2007)
§ 31.07 TITLE VI COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Town Manager is designated as the Title VI Coordinator for the
town.
   (B)   The town grievance procedure under the Americans with Disabilities Act
is adopted as the complaint procedure for addressing complaints alleging
discrimination under Title VI in the provision of services, activities,
programs or benefits by the town with complaints to be directed to the Title VI
Coordinator.
   (C)   For notice purposes, the town will post the contact information
regarding the Title VI Coordinator and the town’s Title VI nondiscrimination
policy on its website and at such other locations as may be determined from
time to time.
(Res. 2016-09, passed 12-19-2016)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Town employee handbook
   
32.02   Nondiscrimination policy
§ 32.01 TOWN EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   The Town of Middlebury Employee Handbook is hereby adopted, approved and
established for the town and its employees effective January 1, 2014. The Town
of Middlebury Employee Handbook, as amended from time to time, will be on file
with the Clerk. 
(Ord. 558, passed 2-3-2014; Ord. 558-A, passed 2-2-2015; Ord. 558-B, passed 3-
18-2019; Ord. 558-C, passed 12-21-2020; Ord. 661, passed 8-2-2021; Ord. 667,
passed 12-20-2021; Ord. 684, passed 3-20-2023; Res. 2023-04, passed 3-20-2023)
§ 32.02 NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town not to discriminate against any employee
or applicant for employment due to the race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, age or handicap of that individual.
   (B)   This policy extends to all phases of employment and shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer;
      (2)   Recruitment or recruitment advertising;
      (3)   Lay-off or termination;
      (4)   Rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and
      (5)   Selection for training, including apprenticeship.
(1985 Code, § 22-9-1-12.1)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Investment of public funds
   
33.02   Credit card and fuel card usage for town business
   
33.03   Public purchasing under I.C. 5-22 et seq.
   
33.04   Police Petty Cash Fund   
   
33.05   Return check or draft charges
   
33.06   Claim payment in advance of Council allowance
   
33.07   Mileage for town-related business
   
33.08   Capital assets for inventory purposes
Funds
   
33.20   Sidewalk Improvement Fund
   
33.21   Town Petty Cash Fund
   
33.22   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
33.23   Cash Change Fund
   
33.24   Payroll and Benefits Fund
   
33.25   Community Crossing Grant Fund
   
33.26   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
33.27   CARES Act Covid Grant Fund
Fees
   
33.35   Copying fee
   
33.36   Law enforcement record fees
   
33.37   Police inspection fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   General investment guidelines. It is the expectation of the Town
of Middlebury, Indiana (“Town”) to have it public funds invested in a manner
which will provide the highest investment return, with the maximum security,
while meeting the cash flow demands of the Town, while conforming to the
statutes of the State of Indiana, including, but not limited to, I.C. 5-13-9.
      (2)   Standard of investment practice and review. Investments of the town
shall be made by the Middlebury Clerk-Treasurer consistent with the judgement
and care under the circumstances then prevailing, which a person of prudence,
discretion, and intelligence exercises in the management of one's own affairs,
not for speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of
one's capital, as well as the probable income to be derived, subject to the
deposit investment provisions set forth in I.C. 5-13-9.
      (3)   Investment policy. It is the policy of the town to have its public
funds invested consistent with the following standards:
         (a)   All investments of the public funds of the Town must be made
with the approval of the Middlebury Clerk-Treasurer.
         (b)   All investments of the public funds of the town must be made in
accordance with I.C. 5-13.
         (c)   The investment of the public funds of the town may be made with
a stated final maturity that is for more than two years but not more than five
years after the date of purchase or entry into a repurchase agreement.
         (d)   The total investments outstanding for the town which are more
than two years but not more than five years in maturity must be limited to no
more than 25% of the total portfolio of public funds invested by the town,
including balances in transaction accounts.
         (e)   The policy contained herein shall be in effective January 1,
2020 and shall expire on December 31, 2023.
      (4)   Investment compliance. An investment that complies with this
section when the investment is made remains legal even if the investment policy
in this section has expired or a subsequent decrease in the total portfolio of
public funds invested by the town, including balances in transaction accounts,
causes the percentage of investments outstanding which are more than two years
but not more than five years in maturity to exceed 25% of the total portfolio
of public funds invested by the town.
      (5)   Investment contracts. The Middlebury Clerk-Treasurer may contract
with a federally regulated investment advisor or other institutional money
manager to make investments under this Ordinance as permitted by I.C. 5-13-9-
5.7
      (6)   Investment proceeds. The Middlebury Clerk-Treasurer shall have
discretion in distributing the interest or other proceeds derived from an
investment into the Middlebury General Fund or the fund from which the
investment was derived, subject to the modifications and limitations provided
by I.C. 5-13-9-6, as amended. Specific modifications and limitations of I.C. 5-
13-9-6 include the following:
         (a)   Interest from investments of funds of a political subdivision
that are traceable to United States government funds must be receipted to the
fund of which they are a part, if required by federal law or regulation.
         (b)   Interest from investment of funds controlled by court orders
must be receipted to that fund unless otherwise designated by the court order.
         (c)   Interest derived from the investment of the proceeds from bonded
indebtedness or local tax levies may be applied to the appropriate redemption
bond interest or sinking fund for the bonded indebtedness.
         (d)   Interest earned on the investment of meter deposits of a
municipally owned utility may be applied to and used in the operation or
depreciation fund of the municipally owned utility as determined by its
governing body.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5, the Town Council hereby authorizes the
investing officer of the town to invest in certificates of deposit of
depositories that have not been designated by the Town Council but have been
designated by the State Board of Finance as a depository for state deposits
under I.C. 5-13-9.5. This authorization expires one year after the adoption
date.
(Res. 2016-06, passed 8-15-2016; Ord. 627, passed 12-16-2019; Res. 2019-03,
passed 6-3-2019)
§ 33.02 CREDIT CARD AND FUEL CARD USAGE FOR TOWN BUSINESS.
   (A)   Credit and fuel card accounts. The town is hereby authorized to open
and maintain a single credit card account and a single fuel card account for
official business of the town.
   (B)   Authority of Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and responsible for:
         (a)   Selecting the credit card issuer and fuel account provider to be
used by the town;
         (b)   Executing the credit card and fuel card applications and
agreements with the selected card issuers for the town;
         (c)   Overseeing the issuance of the credit cards and fuel cards for
official town business;
         (d)   Maintaining the credit card and fuel card accounts and the
relationship between the town and the card issuers; and
         (e)   Reviewing all claims filed in connection with the use of the
credit cards and fuel cards for proper documentation, itemization and purpose.
      (2)   It is recommended by the Town Council that the Clerk-Treasurer
periodically request proposals from various credit card and fuel card issuers
so as to obtain the terms most advantageous and beneficial to the town with
respect to its credit accounts.
   (C)   Authorized card holders. The Clerk-Treasurer shall have two credit
cards issued on behalf of the town with those credit cards issued to the Town
Manager and the Clerk-Treasurer. Fuel cards may be issued in the names of the
Department Superintendents. Fuel cards may also be issued to or in the names of
employees authorized by the Superintendents for their respective departments,
and likewise revoked or withdrawn from such employees as determined by the
respective Department Superintendent. Credit cards will not be issued on behalf
of the town to anyone else for the town. Upon staff changes occurring, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall cancel any existing credit card for that person and have
a new credit card issued in the name of the replacement person filling the
applicable position. Upon staff changes occurring in the positions of the
Department Superintendents, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cancel the existing fuel
card for that person and have a new fuel card issued in the name of the
replacement person filling the applicable position.
   (D)   Administration of claims. 
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall not draw a warrant or check for payment
on any credit card or fuel card statement, unless:
         (a)   There is a fully itemized invoice or bill for each expense;
         (b)   Each invoice or bill is approved by the town employee or
representative receiving the goods or services;
         (c)   The invoice or bill is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer;
         (d)   The Clerk-Treasurer audits and certifies before payment that the
invoice or bill is true and correct; and
         (e)   Payment of the credit card or fuel card statement is allowed by
the Town Council at a proper public meeting.
      (2)   If all of the expenses shown on the credit card or fuel card
statement are not itemized or properly documented, the statement is to be
returned to the authorized card holder for proper itemization, documentation
and/or correction. If any interest or penalty is incurred due to late filing or
late furnishing of documentation or itemization by the authorized card holder,
the authorized card holder shall be responsible for paying the interest or
penalty charges. If any interest or penalty is incurred due to late payment
through the fault or responsibility of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall be responsible for paying the interest or penalty charges. All items
incurred and charged with the town credit cards and fuel cards must be for
official business of the town, and shall not be personal in nature. Reasonable
gratuities are allowable where a service has been provided for business related
services and expenses of the town. Alcoholic beverages, cleaning and pressing
personal laundry, personal telephone calls, souvenirs and other items personal
in nature shall not be paid from public funds of the town.
   (E)   Credit limit. The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish a credit limit of no
more than $2,500 on any credit card issued on behalf of the town to an
authorized town representative. The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish a credit
limit of no more than $1,000 on any fuel card issued on behalf of the town to
an authorized town representative.
(Ord. 584, passed 8-15-2016; Ord. 584-B, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 33.03 PUBLIC PURCHASING UNDER I.C. 5-22 ET SEQ.
   (A)   Purchasing agency. The Town Council hereby determines that it is and
shall be the purchasing agency for the town. The purchasing agency for the town
shall have all powers and duties authorized under I.C. 5-22 et seq., as
amended.
   (B)   Purchasing agents.
      (1)   The purchasing agents for the town shall have all of the powers and
duties authorized under I.C. 5-22 et seq., as amended. The purchasing agency
may also designate in writing additional purchasing agents as it determines to
be necessary and appropriate from time to time. The Town Council hereby
designates the following representatives of the town to serve as purchasing
agents for the town subject to the specified dollar limit authority assigned
for each as designated below:
 
Town Representative                           Dollar Limit Purchasing Authority
Clerk                                         Not to exceed $5,000
Department heads                              Not to exceed $5,000
Departmental employees with prior approval of Not to exceed $500
department head
Town Manager                                  Not to exceed $25,000
 
      (2)   Purchases in excess of $25,000 shall only be made with the prior
approval of the purchasing agency.
   (C)   Purchase of supplies less than $50,000. Subject to the purchasing
limitations contained in division (B) above, the purchasing agents may purchase
supplies with an estimated cost of less than $50,000 on the open market without
inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
   (D)   Purchase of services. Subject to the purchasing limitations contained
in division (B) above, the purchasing agents may purchase services, excluding
garbage and trash collection, for the town in whatever manner they determine to
be reasonable and appropriate.
   (E)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town purchases and
shall be purchased unless the Town Council determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured outside the United States;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured outside the United States; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (F)   Purchase from Department of Correction and Rehabilitation Center. The
purchasing agents from the town shall make purchases from the State Department
of Correction and the Rehabilitation Center in accordance with and when
required by I.C. 5-22-11 and I.C. 5-22-12.
   (G)   Purchases between $50,000 and $150,000. Subject to the purchasing
limitations contained in division (B) above, the purchasing agents for the town
may make purchases between $50,000 and $150,000 in accordance with the
procedures established under I.C. 5-22-8 et seq.
   (H)   Applicability of section. The terms and provisions of this section
shall be applicable to all agencies, boards, commissions, departments and
divisions of the municipal government of the town, including the town water
utility and the town wastewater utility.
(Ord. 371, passed 7-6-1998; Ord. 593, passed 1-16-2017)
§ 33.04 POLICE PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   A Petty Cash Fund is herewith specifically authorized and established
for the Town Police Department.
   (B)   Such Petty Cash Fund shall originally be established at $25, which
initial $25 shall be taken from heretofore budgeted funds of the town.
   (C)   Such Petty Cash Fund shall be maintained for such uses and purposes as
shall be in furtherance of the responsibilities and activities of the town,
including specifically the payment of small amounts owed by the Police
Department, and otherwise in furtherance of holding down on administrative and
record keeping expenses for small expenditure items.
(Ord. 372, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 33.05 RETURN CHECK OR DRAFT CHARGES.
   The Clerk is authorized to charge the following amounts on all checks
returned to the town which have been determined to have insufficient funds.
   (A)   First time a check is returned from bank: $10.
   (B)   Second time a check is returned from bank: $15 additional or 5% of the
face amount of the check or draft, whichever is greater, not to exceed $150.
   (C)   All such charges collected shall be deposited into the General Fund as
miscellaneous income pursuant to all applicable regulations imposed by the
State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 300, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 33.06 CLAIM PAYMENT IN ADVANCE OF COUNCIL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk may make claim payments in advance of the allowance by the
Town Council for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges, including
electricity, gas, water, sewer, telephone, cable, internet, Wi-Fi, fiber,
broadband, communication and solid waste disposal;
      (5)   Federal grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants or state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Assessments, fees or other charges payable to the United States
government;
      (14)   State government, their agencies or their political subdivisions;
      (15)   Employee mileage, lodging, meal and other expense reimbursements;
      (16)   Benefit plan premiums, charges, expenses, assessments and
reimbursements;
      (17)   Credit card, charge card, fuel card and other charge accounts;
      (18)   Reservation fees and training expenses;
      (19)   Postage; and
      (20)   Indiana Department of Environmental Management fees, charges,
expenses or assessments.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses must be supported by a fully itemized invoice
or bill and certification by the Clerk.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow any applicable claim paid
pursuant to the terms and provisions of this section at its next regular or
special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
   (D)   This section shall be interpreted so as to be consistent and in
compliance with the requirements of I.C. 36-5-4-12 allowing money to be
distributed for lawful town purposes to make claim payments in advance of board
allowance. This section shall constitute the prior written approval of the Town
Council which has jurisdiction over the allowance of claims paid by the town.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 590, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 33.07 MILEAGE FOR TOWN-RELATED BUSINESS.
   The town shall pay a mileage fee in the amount of $0.55 per mile for the use
of personal vehicles incurred by town personnel and elected officials relative
to town business, provided however, that approval and authorization of such
trips shall be made in advance and that no claim for such mileage shall be paid
without prior authorization and written confirmation of the actual mileage
incurred which was related to said town business.
(Ord. 301, passed 9-7-1993; Res. 2023-04, passed 3-20-2023)
§ 33.08 CAPITAL ASSETS FOR INVENTORY PURPOSES.
   (A)    All capital assets purchased or acquired by the Town of Middlebury,
Indiana that have a value of $5,000 or greater shall be considered inventory
for accounting purposes. As such, all assets as described shall be submitted to
the office of the Middlebury Clerk-Treasurer for recording and tracking of the
items being placed in inventory.
   (B)   In addition to all assets purchased or acquired which are $5,000 or
greater in value, the purchase or acquisition of all office machines,
electronic devices, computers, equipment, and other items over $500 shall be
reported to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Middlebury,
Indiana for the purpose of tracking maintenance and repairs. These items and
devices will not be considered capital assets for inventory purposes, but shall
be documented and recorded for the purpose of coordination of maintenance and
repair on these items.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana may establish
and implement a capital assets policy consistent with the requirements of the
Indiana State Board of Accounts for inventory and accounting purposes.
(Ord. 592, passed 1-16-2017; Am. Ord. 592-A, passed 7-15-2019)
FUNDS
§ 33.20 SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of Fund. There is hereby established for the town a
Sidewalk Improvement Fund.
   (B)   Purpose of the fund. The Sidewalk Improvement Fund of the town will be
used to construct, reconstruct, improve, repair, maintain or otherwise enhance
public sidewalks and associated pedestrian facilities under the jurisdiction of
the town.
   (C)   Appropriations. The Sidewalk Improvement Fund of the town is subject
to the same appropriation process as other funds received and deposited by the
town.
   (D)   Source of funds. The Sidewalk Improvement Fund of the town shall have
as its source of funds donations, payments or other contributions for the
construction, reconstruction, improvement, repair, maintenance or other
enhancement of public sidewalks and associated pedestrian facilities in the
town.
   (E)   Non-reverting fund. The Sidewalk Improvement Fund of the town shall be
a non-reverting fund with all unused monies in said fund at the end of each
fiscal year remaining in the Sidewalk Improvement Fund. In addition, any
interest earned on the monies in the Sidewalk Improvement Fund shall remain in
and be credited to the Sidewalk Improvement Fund.
   (F)   Amendment or termination. This section may be amended or terminated by
the Town Council upon the adoption of an amending or repealing ordinance. Until
such time, this section shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 535, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 33.21 TOWN PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   A Petty Cash Fund is herewith specifically authorized and established
for the town.
   (B)   Such Petty Cash Fund shall originally be established at $25, which
initial $25 shall be taken from heretofore budgeted funds of the town.
   (C)    Such Petty Cash Fund shall be maintained for such uses and purposes
as shall be in furtherance of the responsibilities and activities of the town,
including specifically the payment of small amounts owed by the Town Council,
and otherwise in furtherance of holding down on administrative and record
keeping expenses for small expenditure items.
   (D)   The petty cash fund for the Middlebury Police Department shall be
increased to $100 which increase shall be taken from heretofore budgeted funds
of the Town of Middlebury Police Department.
(Ord. 319, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 372-A, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 33.22 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Board hereby creates the Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund.
   (B)   All distributions received from the Cumulative Capital Improvement
Fund of the State Cigarette Tax Fund shall be deposited in the Cumulative
Capital Improvement Fund.
   (C)   Disbursements from the Fund shall be made only for the construction or
improvement of any town-owned property, including but not limited to streets,
thoroughfares and sewers. Disbursements may also be made to retire general
obligation bonds of the town issued for the construction of improvements which
would qualify for use of those funds.
   (D)   No disbursements shall be made from the Fund for the salaries of any
employee or public officials except for expenses directly chargeable to the
improvements listed in division (C) above.
(1985 Code, § 36-9-16-3) (Ord. 118, passed 8- -1965)
§ 33.23 CASH CHANGE FUND.
   (A)    The Cash Change Fund shall be increased to the sum of $100.
   (B)   The Town Council of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana acknowledges that
the Cash Change Fund under Ord. 318, 318-A, and 318-B actually represents
utility funds with 50% from the Water Utility and 50% from the Wastewater
Utility.
(Ord. 318, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 318-A, passed 7-17-2000; Ord. 318-B, passed
8-19-2019)
§ 33.24 PAYROLL AND BENEFITS FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of new fund. There is herewith established a fund, to be
known as the Middlebury Town Employee Payroll and Benefits Fund.
   (B)   Purposes of fund. The Middlebury Town Employee Payroll and Benefits
Fund is herewith created for the broad purpose of providing a fund and account
into which various monies and revenues of the town shall hereafter be
deposited, and from which all payments, benefits, compensation or other
expenditures pertaining to employees and compensation or benefits due or owing
to them shall be paid. Expressly included in such allotted payments would be
regular and special payroll, tax payments and withholdings, health insurance,
retirement benefits, Public Employee Retirement Fund payments, and any and
other payments, compensation arrangements, or benefits now existing or
hereafter established by the Town Council and pertaining in any fashion to any
employee of the town.
   (C)   Indefinite duration of fund. 
      (1)   The fund herewith established shall remain in full force and
effect, and be usable by the town, until this section be expressly replaced,
cancelled or superseded by new Ordinance of the town, or by specific change or
mandate of applicable state law. Monies in such fund shall carry over from year
to year, and shall not be removed or transferred from the Town Employee Payroll
and Benefits Fund at the end of a fiscal year for the town.
      (2)   Conversely, all monies or deposits within such fund shall be deemed
assets of and part of the general net worth of the town and shall be considered
upon a review of the overall financial condition of the town, and the Clerk is
herewith expressly authorized and permitted, at year end, or at such other time
or times as the Clerk shall deem necessary or appropriate, to transfer all
monies within such fund to the Town General Fund for purposes of appeals to the
local Government Tax Control Board of the State Board of Tax Commissioners
pertaining to excess levies, or for such other reason or reasons as either the
Town Council shall direct, or the Clerk, in his or her discretion, shall
determine.
   (D)   Disposition of fund balance on termination of the fund. Should the
Middlebury Town Employee Payroll and Benefits Fund for any reason be formally
terminated, the balance remaining in such fund shall be paid over by the Clerk
to the appropriate fund or funds from which such monies were derived, the same
to include, if applicable, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
Town General Fund, Town Street (MVH) Fund, Town Park Fund, Town Cemetery Fund,
Town Water Fund, Town Sewer Fund and/or Town Police Fund.
   (E)   Access to and use of fund. Access to and use of the Town Employee
Payroll and Benefits Fund shall be by the Clerk, and such other employees or
agents of the town as shall be designated from time to time by the Town Council
and/or the Clerk.
(Ord. 292, passed 12-7-1992)
§ 33.25 COMMUNITY CROSSING GRANT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established for the town the Community
Crossings Grant Fund.
   (B)   Purpose. The Community Crossings Grant Fund of the town may be used
only for eligible projects as approved and authorized pursuant to I.C. 8-23-30,
as amended.
   (C)   Appropriations. The Community Crossings Grant Fund of the town is
subject to the same appropriation process as other similar funds.
   (D)   Source. The Community Crossings Grant Fund of the town shall have as
its source of funds the receipt of Community Crossings Grant awards from the
state pursuant to I.C. 8-23-30.
   (E)   Non-reverting. The Community Crossings Grant Fund of the town shall be
a non-reverting fund with all unused monies in said fund at the end of each
fiscal year remaining in the Community Crossings Grant Fund. In addition, any
interest earned on the monies in the Community Crossings Grant Fund shall
remain in and be credited to the Community Crossings Grant Fund.
(Ord. 594, passed 2-6-2017)
§ 33.26 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   That the Town Council of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana determines
that a need now exists for the establishment and re-establishment of the
Cumulative Capital Development Fund for the following purposes: for all uses as
set out in I.C. 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   That the Town Council of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana does hereby
establish and reestablish its Cumulative Capital Development Fund in accordance
with the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5 and I.C. 6-1.1-41.
   (C)   That the Town Council of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana will adhere
to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5. The proposed fund will be levied at and
not exceed $0.05 on each $100 of assessed valuation. Said tax rate will be
levied beginning with taxes for 2020 payable 2021.
   (D)   That the proof of publication of the public hearing held on the 16 day
of March, 2020 and a certified copy of this section will be submitted to the
Department of Local Government Finance of the State of Indiana as provided by
law. This Cumulative Fund is subject to the approval of the Department of Local
Government Finance.
(Ord. 630, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 33.27 CARES ACT COVID GRANT FUND.
   (A)   Fund establishment. There is hereby established a separate and
distinct fund to be named and identified as the CARES Act Covid Grant Fund with
fund number 150 (hereinafter referred to as the fund).
   (B)   Fiscal administration. The Middlebury Clerk-Treasurer shall serve as
the custodian and as the auditing agent for the fund and is hereby authorized
to oversee the administration of the fund.
   (C)   Receipts. Monies deposited to the fund are intended to be limited to
coronavirus relief funds received by the town under the 2020 CARES Act.
   (D)   Expenditures. Expenditures from the fund are not subject to
appropriation pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17 and SBOA Memorandum dated April 29,
2020 since the fund is being created to address federal grant funding for a
declared national and state emergency and the fund as such has a narrow and
limited purpose. The expenditures from the fund will be subject to the approval
of the Town Council. All expenditures are intended to be reimbursed by the 2020
CARES Act.
   (E)   Non-reverting fund. Any and all monies in the fund at the end of the
calendar year shall not revert to another fund but shall remain in said fund as
a separate non-reverting fund.
(Ord. 635, passed 8-3-2020)
FEES
§ 33.35 COPYING FEE.
   (A)   Copying/duplication fee schedule. There is hereby established the
following copying/duplication fee schedule for all departments forming a part
of town, except as excluded from these provisions by division (D) below.
      (1)   Fees for paper copy.
         (a)   The copy fee for producing paper documents shall be $0.10 for
each page of any public record which is not a color copy and $0.25 for each
page of any public record which is a color copy.
         (b)   Page definition: a page shall be one side of a sheet of paper or
one side of a record or document. Thus, a sheet with writing on two sides that
is copied (both sides) would be treated as two pages.
      (2)   Fees for electronic or digital copy.
         (a)   The copy fee for producing an electronic or digital copy of a
document shall be $0.05 for each page of any public record.
         (b)   Page definition: a page shall be one side of a sheet of paper or
one side of a record or document. Thus, a sheet with writing on two sides that
is copied (both sides) would be treated as two pages.
         (c)   Media charges: electronic or digital copies shall be provided
via email; the person requesting the electronic or digital copy shall provide
an accurate email address for sending the requested documents. If the person
requesting electronic or digital copies requests that the copies be provided on
a compact disc (CD), the person making the request shall either supply town
with the media to be used or pay to town $1 for each compact disc utilized to
provide the electronic or digital copies.
      (3)   Packaging and shipping fees. Packaging and shipping fees shall be
charged at cost.
   (B)   Procedure for processing of copy requests. 
      (1)   All requests for copying of public records must identify with
reasonable particularity the record being requested and be in writing or on a
standard form provided by the town. No request for inspection or copying of
public records may be denied because the person making the request refuses to
state the purpose of the request, unless such condition is required by
operation of law.
      (2)   Each department shall be expected to provide copies of public
records, as herein requested, within a reasonable time period after the request
is properly made. A reasonable time period may vary from a few minutes to a few
weeks, depending upon the scope of the request, the time involved in honoring
it, the ability of the particular department to respond to the request given
its other duties and responsibilities, and the availability of copying or
duplicating equipment (if any).
   (C)   Certification fees. The fee for certifying any document as a true,
accurate and complete copy of the original public record shall be $5 for each
document.
   (D)   Statutory or other prescribed fees. Nothing contained within this
section shall alter, expand or interfere with the collection of any copying,
search or other fee by a department of the town that is specified by other law
or is ordered by a court to be paid.
   (E)   Duplication of computer tapes, computer discs, microfilm and the like.
The town shall be entitled to establish the procedures and standards for
providing a duplicate of any computer tape, computer disc, microfilm or similar
or analogous record system containing information owned by the town or
entrusted to it. The town, as part of its standard policy relative to such
materials, shall charge a fee therefor, which fee shall not exceed the town’s
direct cost of supplying the information in that form.
      (1)   In determining the town’s direct cost of supplying such
information, the town shall compute 100% of the sum of the cost of:
         (a)   The initial development of a program, if any;
         (b)   The labor required to retrieve electronically stored data; and
         (c)   Any medium used for electronic output.
      (2)   For providing a duplicate, or for programming the computer system
under I.C. 5-14-3-6 to separate disclosable information from non-disclosable
information.
      (3)   As to such computer tapes, computer discs, microfilm or similar or
other analogous record systems containing information owned by the town, the
town shall be entitled to establish its own uniform, nondiscriminatory
procedure for the requesting of a duplicate or copy, and the timeliness of any
response thereto.
   (F)   Payment and accounting for fees.
      (1)   The town may, at its discretion, require the payment of any fees
under this section to be made in advance to ensure payment and reimbursement to
the town for the expense involved in providing the requested service.
      (2)   All proceeds from the fees arising from this section shall be
deposited by the applicable department in the General Fund of the town. Unless
the department in question chooses to do otherwise, a department imposing and
collecting fees pursuant to this section shall be under no obligation to keep
records as to the types of documents or records copied. Rather, the only record
keeping required shall be to keep track of the number of pages copied in the
various categories for which the various fees have been imposed and the number
of documents certified.
      (3)   The various departments forming a part of the town shall not impose
the fees established under this section when the services performed are for
other departments forming a part of the town.
(Ord. 569, passed 4-6-2015)
§ 33.36 LAW ENFORCEMENT RECORD FEES.
   (A)   Fee schedule for law enforcement officer reports. There is hereby
established the following fee schedule for the Town Police Department for
providing law enforcement officer reports.
      (1)   Accident report. The fee for providing an accident report shall be
$5.
      (2)   Incident report. The fee for providing an incident report shall be
$5.
   (B)   Deposit of fees. The fees collected under this section for providing
accident and incident reports shall be deposited in the Local Law Enforcement
Continuing Education Fund.
   (C)   Use of Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund. The monies in
the Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund shall be expended at the
discretion of the Town Marshal for the continuing education and training of law
enforcement officers employed by the Town Police Department and for equipment
and supplies for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. 493, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 33.37 POLICE INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Each police officer of the town (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-127) shall
collect, for the town, a fee of $5 for each inspection by such officer of a
motor vehicle, semi-trailer or recreational vehicle.
   (B)   Such officer inspecting such motor vehicle, semi-trailer or
recreational vehicle shall make a record of each inspection upon the requisite
application form, as prepared by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the state, and
shall verify the facts set out in said application for use and benefit by the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (C)   A receipt shall be issued by such officer to the person requesting the
inspection for each fee collected. All fees collected shall be deposited in a
special vehicle inspection fund, to hereafter be known as the Town Vehicle
Inspection Fund. Said Fund shall be controlled and monitored by the Town Police
Department and the Clerk, as other such funds would be controlled and
monitored.
   (D)   All funds collected from the inspections, and deposited in the Town
Vehicle Inspection Fund are to be used and expended only for law enforcement
purposes, and then only upon appropriation by the Town Council.
(Ord. 247, passed 8-1-1988)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Providing emergency medical services without a contract
   
34.02   Civil Defense Department
§ 34.01 PROVIDING EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES WITHOUT A CONTRACT.
   (A)   The town hereby elects to have Middlebury Township provide emergency
medical services without a contract inside the corporate boundaries of the
town, commencing January 1, 1997.
   (B)   This section shall remain in effect for emergency medical services in
calendar years after 1997 subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-13-3, and
provided that neither Middlebury Township nor the town opts out of these
participation arrangements for emergency medical services through the adoption
of a resolution or ordinance, respectively, before July 1 of any year
concerning emergency medical services for the subsequent year.
(Ord. 340, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 34.02 CIVIL DEFENSE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Repeal of Ord. 115. The Town Civil Defense Advisory Council is
herewith disbanded, and rendered of no further force or effect. All
appointments to said Town Civil Defense Advisory Council are herewith cancelled
and rescinded, and all authorities previously granted by said ordinance or said
appointments are herewith rendered moot and of no further force or effect.
   (B)   Participation with County Civil Defense Department. The Town Council
herewith states its intention to be affiliated with, and to cooperate and
develop programming with, the County Civil Defense Advisory Council, and the
County Director of Civil Defense and staff serving said Council. All rules,
procedures or regulations as heretofore or hereafter adopted by the Board of
Commissioners of the county for and on behalf of the county government
generally, and pertaining to civil defense, emergency and disaster management,
and other civil disturbance or emergency situations, shall be now, and
hereafter, binding upon the jurisdiction of the town, until this section be
repealed or modified by the Town Council, or its successors in interest.
(Ord. 243, passed 6-6-1988)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES; DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
      
51.   WATER PROVISIONS
      
52.   SEWER USE; SEWER RATES
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES; DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section
   
50.01   Town standards
   
50.02   County references
   
50.03   Guarantee and maintenance agreement
   
50.04   Acceptance of dedicated projects and constructed streets
   
50.05   Cross-connection control and backflow prevention
   
50.06   Water turn-on and shutoff procedures
   
50.07   Water meters
   
50.08   Fire protection and water connections
   
50.09   Authority of Superintendent
   
50.10   Priority of governing standards
   
50.11   Deviations from the guide
   
50.12   Sign provisions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 TOWN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Town Standard Specification and Development Guide is hereby
incorporated by reference and adopted and established for the town.
   (B)   The Town Standard Specification and Development Guide shall govern all
public work and utility projects of the town, as well as all private projects
to be dedicated to the town and those connecting with or affecting water
utility facilities, wastewater utility facilities, park facilities, roads and
streets, buildings and other facilities of the town.
   (C)   For purposes of this chapter, the Town Standard Specification and
Development Guide shall be hereinafter referred to as the “Guide.” The Town
Council may revise the provisions contained in the Guide at any time upon the
adoption of a duly enacted ordinance at a public meeting.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.02 COUNTY REFERENCES.
   Any and all references in the County Highway Guidelines and Standards for
Design and Public Improvement: “Street Standards” (hereinafter referred to as
the County Street Standards) to the Board of Commissioners of the county, the
Board of County Commissioners, the County Commissioners, the County Planning
Department, or similar designation shall, for purposes of the Guide, be altered
to be and mean the Town Council. Any and all references in said County Street
Standards to the County Highway Engineering Department, County Highway
Department, Manager of Transportation, County Engineer or similar designation
shall, for purposes of the Guide, be altered to be and mean the Superintendent
for the Department of Public Works for the town. Any and all references in said
County Street Standards to the county or similar designation shall, for
purposes of the Guide, be altered to be and mean the town. Any and all
references in said County Street Standards to county design, county design or
similar designation shall, for purposes of the Guide, be altered to be and mean
town design. Any and all references in said County Street Standards to the
County Highway System, County Roads or similar designation shall, for purposes
of the Guide, be altered to be and mean the town road and street system.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.03 GUARANTEE AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   In addition to the surety requirements of the county street standards, the
following standards and obligations apply.
   (A)   The developer or developers involved with a dedicated residential
roadway or dedicated industrial roadway shall, in addition to the posting of
such security, enter into a “Guarantee” agreement with the Town Council,
promising to complete the roadway or roadways in question within an agreed
period of time. Said agreement shall incorporate the surety amount or amounts
under the formula aforestated, and the developer, together with all additional
personal guarantors as shall be required by the County Plan Commission, its
staff, the Town Council, or the Town Attorney, shall be and remain personally
responsible for the completion of said roadways, pursuant to said “Guarantee”
above and beyond the amount of surety actually posted. The form of such
“Guarantee” shall be adopted by the Town Council and the Town Attorney, and may
be revised from time to time hereafter without amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   The developer or developers involved with an accepted residential
roadway or accepted industrial roadway shall, as a condition to such
acceptance, and in addition to the maintenance bond, certificate of deposit, or
letter of credit aforedescribed, enter into a “maintenance agreement,” together
with all additional personal guarantors as shall be required by the County Plan
Commission, its staff, the Town Council, or the Town Attorney, all of whom
shall be personally responsible for the full and complete maintenance of the
dedicated roadway for said three-year period of time from and after the date of
its acceptance by the Town Council, and irrespective of the amount of the
maintenance bond, certificate of deposit or letter of credit posted as surety
for such maintenance obligation. The form of such maintenance agreement shall
be adopted by the Town Council and the Town Attorney, and may be revised from
time to time hereafter without amendment of this chapter.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.04 ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATED PROJECTS AND CONSTRUCTED STREETS.
   (A)   No dedicated project or constructed street shall be accepted by the
town until the developer/builder thereof has complied with the terms and
conditions of the Guide, the County Street Standards, and any and all other
legal standards arising from the County Zoning Ordinance, County Subdivision
Ordinance or other applicable law.
   (B)   At a minimum, to secure acceptance by the town, the developer/builder
must have performed or completed the following.
      (1)   The right-of-way for any street at issue must have been properly
dedicated to the Town Council, with appropriate right-of-way width.
      (2)   If a subdivision is involved, the developer/builder must have
secured both primary and secondary approval of the plat for the subdivision,
which would include any roadway at issue.
      (3)   The final plat, as approved by the Plan Commission (to include, if
applicable, acceptance of the right-of-way for the roadway by the Town Council)
must be properly filed and recorded in the County Recorder’s and Auditor’s
Offices.
      (4)   The naming of any roadway in question must have been properly
completed, and the necessary street signs ordered and installed.
      (5)   All inspections contemplated by the Guide and the County Street
Standards must have been undertaken and completed, and final approval by the
Town Superintendent of Public Works must be at hand.
      (6)   All drainage arrangements or systems contemplated by the Guide, the
County Street Standards, the plat of the subdivision, and applicable state law
shall be completed by the developer/builder.
      (7)   The maintenance bond contemplated by the “Guide” must be in
appropriate form and on file with the Town Council. The amount of the
maintenance bond shall be equal to 10% of the contract price for the items to
be dedicated to the town, and shall be effective for a period of three years
from the date of acceptance.
      (8)   All pavement and paving required or contemplated by the Guide, the
County Street Standards, and the plat of the subdivision in question, to
include, where applicable, acceleration/deceleration lanes or passing blisters,
must be completed, and approved as part of the final inspection by the Town
Superintendent of Public Works.
      (9)   A written request for the acceptance must be filed with the Town
Council; as part of such written request, the builder/developer must certify,
under oath, that each of the requirements herein stated have been completed.
      (10)   A written certification executed by a professional engineer
licensed pursuant to I.C. 25-31 et seq. must be filed with the Town Council
certifying that construction review and inspection services have been performed
and that the street or project in question, including any drainage or
utilities, have been designed, constructed and tested in accordance with the
requirements of the Guide.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.05 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   (A)   The regulations located at 327 I.A.C. §§ 8-10 et seq. entitled “Cross-
Connections; Control; Operation” as amended or replaced from time to time as
promulgated by the State Department of Environmental Management and 675 I.A.C.
§§ 16-1.3 et seq. entitled “Indiana Plumbing Code, 1999 Edition” as amended or
replaced from time to time as promulgated by the State Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission are hereby incorporated and adopted by reference as
part of this chapter. One copy of these regulations shall be on file with the
town water utility.
   (B)   The town water utility may cause inspections to be made of all
properties served by the public water system. The frequency of inspections and
reinspections shall be based on potential health hazards involved and shall be
as established by the town water utility.
   (C)   Upon presentation of credentials, a representative of the town water
utility shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time into or
upon any property served by a connection to the public water system of the town
in order to inspect connections. On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of
any property shall furnish to the inspector any pertinent information regarding
the connections, piping systems, water systems and hazards on such property. It
shall be assumed that a cross-connection and hazard is present if access or
requested information are refused.
   (D)   The town water utility is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this chapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after ten days’ written notice is
served on the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a
violation is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until the violations have been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   If it is deemed by the Town Water Utility Superintendent that an
emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk of the
town and delivered to the user’s premises, water service may be immediately
discontinued. The user shall have an opportunity for hearing before the Town
Council, or its designated hearing officer, of such emergency discontinuance.
   (F)   As a condition of new or continued water service, an approved reduced-
pressure-principle backflow preventer shall be installed and maintained by the
user in the principal water line servicing each connection to the town water
system. In the discretion of the Town Water Utility Superintendent, a double-
check valve backflow preventer may be used in lieu of a reduced-pressure-
principle backflow preventer. In the event the Town Water Utility
Superintendent determines that an increased risk or hazard exists to the town
water system at a connection where a double-check valve backflow preventer was
originally allowed to be utilized pursuant to this section, the Town Water
Utility Superintendent may require the replacement of the double-check valve
backflow preventer with a reduced-pressure-principle backflow preventer.
   (G)   The backflow preventer used must be an approved assembly as found on
the List of Approved Backflow Prevention Assemblies published by the University
of Southern California Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic
Research, which list is available for inspection at the town water utility. The
backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not
subject to flooding or freezing.
   (H)   As a condition of continued service, all users shall arrange for the
inspection of all cross- connection and backflow preventer control assemblies
by an inspector registered by the State Department of Environmental Management.
These inspections shall occur at time intervals specified in 327 I.A.C. § 8-10-
8(b), as amended, or as otherwise required by any applicable statute,
regulation or ordinance. Completed test reports shall be submitted to the town
water utility by the user within 30 days after the user’s receipt of the test
reports. Tests and inspections may be required on a more frequent basis at the
discretion of the Town Water Utility Superintendent.
   (I)   This chapter does not supersede the State Plumbing Code as amended or
replaced from time to time or any plumbing ordinances, sewer use ordinances or
other ordinances currently in force and effect in the town, but rather is
supplementary to such. In the event of any conflict with this chapter, the
requirements which are stricter and more protective of the public health and
safety shall control.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.06 WATER TURN-ON AND SHUTOFF PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Other than by persons authorized by the town, no one shall turn on or
shall turn off town mains, hydrants, gate valves, curb stop valves or other
valves of the town water utility. No person shall maliciously, willfully or
negligently break, damage, uncover or deface, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the town water works. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest.
   (B)   Each month, the town water utility shall generate a customer balance
sheet showing the amount owed per customer, not including the amount owed from
the most recent billing.
   (C)   Accounts showing a balance of over $50 without a payment to the water
utility in the previous 30 days shall receive a letter from the town water
utility which states the total amount owing, the amount of the last payment,
and which requests payment. Such customers will also receive from the town
water utility a “Statement of Intent to Pay” allowing the customer to arrange
for payment of past due balances.
   (D)   If within the 30 days following the mailing of the letter described in
division (C) above, the statement of intent to pay is not returned to the water
utility, but payment is made, the water utility shall send a letter requesting
that the statement of intent to pay be returned to the water utility and
requesting that payments continue.
   (E)   When any account or statement for services provided by the town water
utility is 60 days past due, the water utility may send a letter demanding
payment within ten working days and stating that the water service may be
terminated if all delinquent payments are not made within the ten days.
   (F)   If payment is not received within the ten working days described in
division (E) above, the town water utility may terminate water service to the
customer. Water service shall not be restored until the customer pays the past
due amounts and the customer makes satisfactory arrangements with the town
water utility to avoid future delinquencies. In order to re-commence water
service after termination, the customer shall pay to the town water utility a
re-instatement fee of $50.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 WATER METERS.
   (A)   To confirm and ratify historic policy of the town water utility, water
meters shall be initially provided by the user at the user’s expense. All water
meters used shall meet the requirements of and be subject to the approval by
the Town Water Utility Superintendent.
   (B)   To confirm and ratify historic policy of the town water utility, the
repair and/or replacement of water meters for water lines of one inch or less
in size shall be provided by the town at its expense; the repair and/or
replacement of water meters for water lines greater than one inch in size shall
be provided by the user at the user’s expense.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.08 FIRE PROTECTION AND WATER CONNECTIONS.
   Any fire protection system utilizing water from the town water utility shall
have its own tap and be connected to a town water line separate and apart from
any other water tap or connection to the town water system.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.09 AUTHORITY OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   In the event of unforeseen circumstances or developments or emergency
situations, the Superintendent of the town water utility is hereby vested with
such authority and discretion as is needed in order to protect the public
health, safety and welfare in connection with the operation of the town water
utility.
   (B)   A person shall not institute, permit or maintain any conditions that
may jeopardize or threaten the public health and safety with respect to the
town water system. The Superintendent, upon hearing of the existence of such
conditions, shall order the abatement of those conditions. The order must be in
writing, specify the conditions that may jeopardize or threaten the public
health and safety, and name the shortest reasonable time for abatement. If a
person refuses or neglects to obey an order issued under this provision by the
Superintendent, the Town Attorney may, upon receiving the information from the
Superintendent, institute proceedings in the courts for enforcement. An order
may be enforced by injunction. If the action involves a criminal offense, a law
enforcement authority with jurisdiction over the location where the offense
occurred shall be so notified for further enforcement.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.10 PRIORITY OF GOVERNING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Within the Guide, the following standards are established for the
town: state laws and regulations; County Street Standards; County Subdivision
Control Ordinance; INDOT Standard Specifications; American Association of State
Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) Standards; the “Ten States
Standards” and the American Water Works Association Standards.
   (B)   In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between these various
standards, the controlling standard or requirement shall be established and
determined by reference to and priority shall be given in the following order:
      (1)   State laws and regulations;
      (2)   Town standards contained within the Guide;
      (3)   County street standards;
      (4)   County Subdivision Control Ordinance;
      (5)   INDOT Standard Specifications;
      (6)   AASHTO Standards;
      (7)   Ten States Standards; and
      (8)   American Water Works Association Standards.
   (C)   With reference to these standards, the latest edition of the published
standard or specification shall be the governing edition.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.11 DEVIATIONS FROM THE GUIDE.
   Any deviations or variations from the standards, specifications and
requirements of the Guide shall be permitted only with the prior written
approval of the respective Superintendent of the town with jurisdiction of the
project or area in question.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.12 SIGN PROVISIONS.
   The provisions in § 8.8 of the Guide with respect to the town sign ordinance
are provided only for information and guidance purposes. The controlling
requirements shall be those contained within the town sign ordinance in effect
and as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
a violation and on conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding
$2,500 for each such violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense under this section. For any continuing
violation, the town shall also be entitled to an injunction against the
violator for the actions involved. If the violation involves the town water
system, the injunction may also include a shut-off order allowing the town to
shut-off the violator’s supply of municipal water from the town water utility
until all violations cease and are corrected.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage suffered by the town by
reason of such violation, including, but not limited to, the costs and expenses
of locating the source of the violation, repairing any damage caused by the
violation, attorney fees, court costs, engineering fees, administrative time
and expense, labor and all other costs associated with enforcement and
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 497, passed 9-17-2007)
CHAPTER 51: WATER PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Removal of Town Water Department and utility from jurisdiction of
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission
   
51.02   Connection to town water utility
Water Rate Provisions
   
51.15   Rates and charges
   
51.16   Temporary users
   
51.17   Collection and deferred payment charges
   
51.18   Connection and tap fees
   
51.19   Users outside the town
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 REMOVAL OF TOWN WATER DEPARTMENT AND UTILITY FROM JURISDICTION OF
INDIANA UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Water Department and Utility of the town is hereby removed from
the jurisdiction of the State Utility Regulatory Commission, as permitted by
I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1, and hereafter the Water Department and Utility of the town
shall be removed from the jurisdiction of such Commission for the approval of
rates and charges, and of the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes or evidence of
indebtedness.
   (B)   From the after the effective date of this section, the rates and
charges and the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes or other evidence of
indebtedness pertaining to the Town Water Department and Utility shall be under
the jurisdiction and control of the Town Council.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained is intended to change, adjust, alter or
revise existing rates and charges or other standards that would apply to the
issuing of stocks, bonds, notes or other evidence of indebtedness of the Town
Water Department and Utility, except as herein recited.
   (D)   This section shall take effect and be enforced commencing 60 days from
and after its date of passage, unless an appropriate petition to the Town
Council be timely filed seeking and requiring a referendum vote, as
contemplated by I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1.
(Ord. 256, passed 6-27-1989)
§ 51.02 CONNECTION TO TOWN WATER UTILITY.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this section, real estate which
is being connected to a sanitary sewer main operated by the town wastewater
utility shall also be connected for potable water supply purposes to a water
main operated by the town water utility unless a water main operated by the
town water utility is not available for connection.
   (B)   From and after the effective date of this section, real estate which
is being connected to a water main operated by the town water utility for fire
protection service shall also be connected for potable water supply purposes to
a water main operated by the town water utility.
   (C)   From and after the effective date of this section, the installation
and use of a new privately owned potable water supply well within the town is
prohibited unless a water main operated by the town water utility is not
available for connection.
   (D)   From and after the effective date of this section, existing privately
owned potable water supply wells within the town shall be discontinued from use
as a potable water supply source when the existing well fails to produce
potable water adequate in quality and volume to provide the premises served
with its potable water supply needs if a water main operated by the town water
utility is available for connection at the time the repair or replacement of
the existing potable water supply well is needed. Connection shall at that time
then be made to a water main operated by the town water utility.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AVAILABLE. For purposes of a water main, a water main operated by the
town water utility:
         (a)   Is located within 300 feet of the property line of the real
estate for which connection is intended;
         (b)   The water main can be reached through public rights-of-way and/
or public utility easements; and
         (c)   Water pressure is adequate to supply municipal water service to
the real estate for which connection is intended at a pressure of no less than
40 psi (pounds per square inch) without the aid of a booster pump or other
water pressure enhancing equipment at the maximum elevation for which fixtures
will be installed at the real estate.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability partnership, joint venture, firm, company, limited liability company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate or any other legal
entity.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption
including, but not limited to, water use for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes and/or preparing foods.
      WELL. A hole drilled or driven to obtain ground water.
   (F)   All connections required by this section shall be in accordance and in
compliance with the requirements of the utility standards for the town. All
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this section are hereby
repealed insofar as they are in conflict with this section.
(Ord. 503, passed 4-21-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
WATER RATE PROVISIONS
§ 51.15 RATES AND CHARGES.
   There shall be and there are hereby established for the use of and the
service rendered by the waterworks system of the town, the following rates and
charges, based on the use of water supplied by said waterworks system.
   (A)   Metered rates per month.
Metered Rates per Month Rate per 1,000 Gallons
Metered Rates per Month Rate per 1,000 Gallons
First 1,667 gallons     $9.58
Next 3,333 gallons      8.64
Next 6,667 gallons      7.65
Next 8,333 gallons      6.15
Next 13,333 gallons     4.99
Next 100,000 gallons    3.46
Over 133,333 gallons    3.30
 
   (B)   Minimum charge. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance
with the following applicable size of meter installed, for which the user will
be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above schedule of rates.
Size of Meter Monthly Rate
Size of Meter Monthly Rate
5/8-inch      $12.85
3/4-inch      19.19
1-inch        31.42
1-1/4-inch    49.46
1-1/2-inch    78.32
2-inch        132.78
3-inch        300.71
4-inch        489.44
6-inch        1,133.34
8-inch        2,125.01
 
   (C)   Fire hydrants. Municipal and private hydrants; per hydrant; per annum:
$615.63.
   (D)   Private fire protection charges.
Size of Fire Connection Charge per Annum
Size of Fire Connection Charge per Annum
1-1/2-inch              $103.02
2-inch                  183.53
2-1/2-inch              286.56
3-inch                  412.12
4-inch                  730.24
6-inch                  927.28
8-inch                  1,648.50
10-inch                 2,575.79
 
(Ord. 345, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 345A, passed 4-7-1997; Ord. 345F, passed 2-
3-2014; Ord. 345-G, passed 11-7-2016; Ord. 649, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 671,
passed 7-5-2022)
§ 51.16 TEMPORARY USERS.
   Water furnished to temporary users such as contractors, circuses and the
like shall be charged on the basis of the metered gallon rates hereinbefore set
forth as metered or as estimated and established by the Waterworks
Superintendent.
(Ord. 345, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 345F, passed 2-3-2014; Ord. 345-G, passed
11-7-2016; Ord. 649, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 671, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 51.17 COLLECTION AND DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGES.
   All rates and charges not paid when due are hereby declared to be delinquent
and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates or charges not timely paid
shall thereupon attach thereto and be due and owing. The time at which such
rates or charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of
mailing of the bill by the town to the person responsible therefor.
Additionally, the town hereby reserves any and all collection rights and
remedies permitted by applicable state statutes.
(Ord. 345, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 345F, passed 2-3-2014; Ord. 345-G, passed
11-7-2016; Ord. 649, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 671, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 51.18 CONNECTION AND TAP FEES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONNECTION FEE. The payment required for the benefit or privilege of
making a connection, directly or indirectly, to the town’s waterworks system,
which is to be paid in accordance with this subchapter.
      DEVELOPER. An owner of, or person acting on behalf of an owner to develop
or improve property to be served by the town water utility.
      EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT. A conversion of flows from nonresidential use
or multi-family units to flows equivalent to single-family dwelling(s).
Generally, one EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT is equal to a 310-gallon per day usage
rate.
      TAP FEES. The fees to reimburse the town for the direct costs associated
with making a connection to the water main. The fee includes direct costs such
as materials, labor, equipment, pavement replacement, inspection,
administration and review, as well as any other costs incurred in processing
the application and making the connection. The fee does not include required
backflow prevention devices and necessary metering equipment to meter the use
of water by a user.
   (B)   (1)    Prior to connecting to the town’s waterworks system, a
developer shall be required to pay a connection fee in the amount of $1,765 per
equivalent dwelling unit. Multi-family dwelling units and nonresidential users
shall be converted to an equivalent dwelling unit as determined by the type of
user. The equivalent dwelling units assessed shall be in accordance with the
Equivalent Dwelling Unit Table contained in division (J) below.
         (a)   These fees will be used by the utility in the best interests of
the utility and in accordance with the utility’s policy but shall be primarily
available to offset the costs of future extensions, modifications and
improvements to the town’s waterworks system. Connection fees for fire
sprinkler connections and for users not listed in the table or of unique
character will be established by the Town Manager with any necessary assistance
or input from the Superintendent of the town water utility subject to appeal in
accordance with division (I) below. Replacements, improvements, additions and/
or expansions of an existing facility or building which requires a building
permit shall subject the user to the fees outlined in this subchapter for the
replacement, improvement, addition and/or expansion project. In addition, the
submission of false, fraudulent, inaccurate or erroneous information by a user
when applying for approval to make a connection to the town’s waterworks system
shall subject the user to being reassessed at any time the appropriate amount
under this subchapter for the connection fee. For a period of two years after
occupancy, a developer shall be liable for and subject to being reassessed for
any additional connection fees based upon the actual usage of the property if
such actual usage would result in a larger connection fee being due and payable
to the town.
         (b)   These fees are representative of the historical costs that have
been invested in the waterworks system by the existing rate payers, as
determined by an independent study performed for the town. Connection fees are
in addition to tap fees and user fees. These fees may be revised from time to
time, as required by the town.
      (2)   At the time a transfer of or change in a utility account is
requested by a new user or new owner of a property served by the town water
utility and/or the town sewer utility, the new user or owner shall complete an
application for utility service and pay to the town water utility a $25
application fee. The application fee will be charged on the first billing
statement to the new user or new owner after the utility account is transferred
or changed. The application fee will cover the costs associated with the
transfer or change in the utility account for purposes of water utility service
and/or sewer utility service. The utility account, however, shall not be
changed or transferred until the new user or new owner and the existing account
holder contact the town. If the application is not completed and filed by the
new user or new owner with the town within two weeks after the transfer or
change is made, any municipal water or sewer service serving the property shall
be subject to termination.
   (C)   The tap fee for connecting a user to the town’s water distribution
system shall be $1,492 for three-quarter inch connections and $1,672 for one-
inch connections. Tap fees for fire sprinkler connections and connections not
listed herein will be established by the Superintendent of the town water
utility subject to appeal in accordance with division (I) below. Tap fees shall
be in addition to connection fees and user fees. Tap fees are based on the
direct cost of service as determined by an independent study performed for the
town. These fees may be revised from time to time, as required by the town.
   (D)   Connection fees and tap fees to users outside of the corporate limits
will be the same as that charged to users located within the corporate limits
of the town.
   (E)   For any connection to the town water utility facilities for which a
connection fee is required, the minimum charged will be for one equivalent
dwelling unit.
   (F)   The following payment schedule shall apply.
      (1)   Connection fees shall be paid in full at the time of application
for such service and prior to work being started on such connection.
      (2)   Tap fees shall be paid in full at the time of application for such
service and prior to work being started on such connection.
      (3)   No connection to the water utility will be allowed prior to receipt
by the town of all connection fees and tap fees required under this subchapter.
      (4)   In the event an application for service is denied or the actual
connection is not made, any connection fees and tap fees paid shall be
refundable, without interest, to the applicant upon request. At the time a
refund is made, any previously issued permit for such utility service under
this subchapter shall be rescinded.
      (5)   Permits for utility service issued under this subchapter shall be
valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance.
   (G)   The connection fees and tap fees established by this subchapter shall
take effect with respect to applications for service filed on and after January
1, 2006.
   (H)   This subchapter and the fees set out herein may be amended from time
to time by the Town Council when conditions exist that indicate that the
established charges are no longer equitable to customers of the municipal
waterworks system or for developers of property connecting to said distribution
system.
   (I)   Any person, group, firm, company, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, limited liability partnership, or other organization
adversely affected by the application of this subchapter may present an appeal
to a Utility Review Committee.
      (1)   The Utility Review Committee shall be composed of the President of
the Town Council, the Utilities Commissioner on the Town Council, and the Town
Manager. The appeal shall be filed with the Town Clerk who shall forward a copy
of the appeal to the Utility Review Committee and the Superintendent of the
town water utility.
      (2)   The appeal shall be submitted no later 30 days after the adverse
decision appealed from is made. The appellant shall submit such number of
copies of the appeal as the Utility Review Committee may prescribe from time to
time. The appeal shall be in such form and contain such information as the
Utility Review Committee may prescribe from time to time, but shall in all
instances contain a concise written statement explaining the nature of the
appeal, identifying the issues involved, and presenting the position of the
appellant.
      (3)   The Utility Review Committee shall review and consider the appeal
at a hearing prior to which the appellant shall be given at least ten days
notice and at which hearing the appellant shall be entitled to participate.
Following the review and decision, the Utility Review Committee shall transmit
to the Town Clerk, the Town Manager and the Superintendent of the town water
utility a written report giving its findings and affirming, modifying or
reversing the application of this subchapter to the appellant.
      (4)   The appellant may appeal the decision of the Utility Review
Committee to the Town Council by filing with the Town Clerk a request to
further appeal the decision which shall be submitted a minimum of ten days
prior to any regularly scheduled Town Council meeting in order to be included
on the agenda. The Town Council shall review and consider the appeal as part of
its regular public meeting schedule. Following the review and decision, the
Town Council shall transmit to the Town Clerk, the Town Manager and the
Superintendent of the town water utility a written report giving its findings
and affirming, modifying or reversing the decision of the Utility Review
Committee.
      (5)   It is specifically provided that the failure to apply for and seek
any necessary permits as well as the failure to appeal any application of this
subchapter as provided under this section shall work as a bar in challenging
this subchapter or its requirements in court.
   (J)   Town equivalent dwelling unit table; connection charges per equivalent
dwelling unit:
Town Equivalent Dwelling Unit Table; Connection Charges per Equivalent
Dwelling Unit
Type of User Unit Equivalent*
Town Equivalent Dwelling Unit Table; Connection Charges per Equivalent
Dwelling Unit
Type of User                       Unit Equivalent*
Single-family residences and       1.00
condominiums (per unit)
Multi-family residences (per unit)  
One bedroom                        0.64
Two bedrooms                       0.96
Three or more bedrooms             1.00
Assembly halls, lodges, veteran    0.01 per seat
organizations
Barber and beauty shops            0.60 per chair
Bars and cocktail lounges          0.10 per seat
Bowling alleys                     0.32 per lane
Churches                           0.01 per seat
Day care centers                   0.03 per child and staff
Doctor/dentist office              2.00 per 1,000 sf of building area
Drive-in/drive-through restaurants 0.40 per car space
Drive-in theaters                  0.02 per space
Hospitals                          0.50 per bed
Institutions other than hospitals  0.40 per bed
Kennel                             0.10 per cage
Laundromats                        1.00 per washing machine
                                   Based on industrial process used. Usage
Manufacturing facilities           shall be estimated and converted to EDUs
                                   based on 310 gpd
Mobile home parks                  0.75 per space
Motels and hotels                  0.32 per room
Nursing homes                      0.30 per bed
Offices/government agencies        0.50 per 1,000 sf of building area
Restaurants                        0.10 per seat
Retail space                       1.00 per 1,000 sf of building area
With fountain space add            0.10 per seat
Rooming houses                     0.30 per renter
Schools                            0.05 per pupil
With cafeteria and showers         0.09 per pupil
Service station                    0.70 per island
Theaters                           0.01 per seat
Unique facilities                  Negotiated
Warehouse                          0.04 per 1,000 sf of building area
Changes in use by addition or remodeling shall be subject to applicable
fees in accordance with this table
*Equivalent dwelling units are based on 310 gpd as typical for a single-
family dwelling.
 
(Ord. 345, passed 12-16-1996; Ord. 345D, passed 3-21-2005; Ord. 345-D-1, passed
5-7-2018)
§ 51.19 USERS OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   Charges to users outside the corporate limits of the town will be at 130% of
the rates and charges to users within the corporate limits of the town, and
will be billed accordingly.
(Ord. 345, passed 12-15-1996; Ord. 345F, passed 2-3-2014; Ord. 345-G, passed
11-7-2016; Ord. 649, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 671, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
51.02 shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 for each violation. Any person
who aids or abets another person in violating §
51.02 shall likewise be in violation of §
51.02 and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 for each violation.
Violations of §
51.02 shall constitute continuing violations until corrected. Each day that a
person is in violation of §
51.02 shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 503, passed 4-21-2008)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER USE; SEWER RATES
Section
Sewer Rate Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   User charges
   
52.03   Rates and charges
   
52.04   Quantities of water
   
52.05   Strength and content of waste water
   
52.06   Users outside the town
   
52.07   Billing; delinquency
   
52.08   Study of rates and charges
   
52.09   Regulations and by-laws
   
52.10   Administrative relief
   
52.11   Special rate contracts
   
52.12   Sewer rate phases
Sewer Use Provisions
   
52.25   Title
   
52.26   Definitions
   
52.27   Unlawful deposits and discharges
   
52.28   Where public sewer not available
   
52.29   General regulations
   
52.30   Unlawful discharges
   
52.31   Pretreatment
   
52.32   Unpolluted water
   
52.33   Measurements, tests and analysis
   
52.34   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.35   Users to notify town of unusual flows or wastes
   
52.36   Unlawful to damage and the like any part of sewage works
   
52.37   Representatives of town may enter premises
   
52.38   Appeal
 
   
52.99   Penalty
SEWER RATE PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMONIA or NH3-N. Has the same meaning as in the sewer use ordinance (§§
52.25 through
52.38).
   BOARD.  The Town Council of the Town of Middlebury, or any duly authorized
officials acting on its behalf.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. Has the same meaning as in the sewer use
ordinance (§§
52.25 through
52.38).
   CBOD or CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. Has the same meaning as in
the sewer use ordinance (§§
52.25 through
52.38).
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. Has the same meaning as in the sewer use
ordinance (§§
52.25 through
52.38).
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all existing and proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of “normal
domestic sewage.”
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT or NPDES PERMIT. Has
the same meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance (§§
52.25 through
52.38).
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. 
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   SS not more than 240 mg/l;
         (b)   BOD not more than 240 mg/l;
         (c)   Ammonia not more than 30 mg/l;
         (d)   Phosphorus not more than 7 mg/l; and
         (e)   Fats, wax, grease or oils, collectively, whether emulsified or
not, not more than 100 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, waste waters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from industrial wastes.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on
a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. (These costs included
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership,
copartnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited
liability company, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the state and political
subdivisions thereof, the United States of America, or other legal entity, or
their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall
include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural where indicated
by the context.
   PHOSPHORUS. Has the same meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance (§§
52.25 through
52.38).
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. Has the same meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance (§§
52.25 through
52.38).
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and related enactment to this subchapter,
codified in §§
52.25 through
52.38, which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers,
known as the “town sewer use ordinance.”
   SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Has the same meaning as defined in the sewer use
ordinance (§§
52.25 through
52.38).
   TOWN. The Town of Middlebury acting by and through the Town Council.
   USER CHARGES. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to § 204(b) of
Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental in the user
charge system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial, manufacturing, business, trade or
processing facility that discharges industrial waste to a wastewater treatment
works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
(Ord. 553, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 647, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.02 USER CHARGES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the town’s sewage works
shall be charged for the service provided. These charges are established for
each user class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from
each user and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the
treatment works in terms of volume and load.
   (B)   User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User charges shall
be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
      (1)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency at 40 C.F.R. § 35.2140. Replacement
costs, which are recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based
upon the expected useful life of the sewage works equipment.
      (2)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purpose
of this subchapter, shall be as follows: Class I - Residential, Commercial,
Governmental, Institutional and Industrial.
(Ord. 553, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 647, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.03 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the use of the service rendered by the town sewage works, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town’s sanitary sewage
system or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or
other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system
of the town.
   (B)   Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determined as follows.
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge
based on the size of water meter installed except as herein otherwise provided.
For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage service, the
water meters shall be read monthly and the users shall be billed each month (or
period equaling a month). If for any reason the monthly meter reading is not
available, a bill will be prepared, based on the estimated usage, and a
correction will be made when meter readings are available.
         (a)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of said rates and
charges shall be determined is as follows:
         (b)   All Class I users:
            1.   Treatment rate per 1,000 gallons of usage per month:
               a.   Phase 1: $7.50;
               b.   Phase 2: $7.77; plus
            2.   Base rate per month:
Water Meter Phase 1 Amount Phase 2 Amount
Water Meter              Phase 1 Amount Phase 2 Amount
5/8-inch to 3/4-inch     $13.17         $13.64
1-inch                   $28.67         $29.69
1-1/4-inch to 1-1/2-inch $62.75         $64.99
2-inch                   $106.34        $110.14
3-inch                   $240.85        $249.45
4-inch                   $427.27        $442.53
6-inch                   $954.07        $988.15
 
      (2)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly sewer charge shall be
determined by equivalent single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month). The schedule on which said rates and charges will be
determined is as follows: residential: single-family dwelling unit, monthly
rate:
         (a)   Phase 1 amount: $68.92
         (b)   Phase 2 amount: $71.38
      (3)   As contemplated by applicable state law, the town and other
government users shall be subject to the same rates and charges established
herein for their use and receipt of sewage services by the town.
      (4)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the
town shall charge the user not less than $36 per sampling event plus the actual
cost for collecting and analyzing the sample(s) as determined by the town or by
an independent laboratory. This charge will be reviewed on the same basis as
all other rates and charges in this subchapter.
      (5)   In order to recover a portion of the debt service for the Town of
Middlebury Sewage Works Revenue Bonds of 2021, there will be a $20.00 per month
debt service surcharge assessed to the users of the sewage works who are
connected to the sanitary sewer mains extended, constructed, and installed as a
part of the 2021 Middlebury Southwest Quadrant Infrastructure Project. The
monthly debt service surcharge will remain in effect so long as any of the
Sewage Works Revenue Bonds of 2021 remain outstanding. The monthly debt service
surcharge is not subject to the provisions of § 52.06.
   (C)   For any connection to the Town of Middlebury sanitary sewer utility
facilities for which a connection fee is required, the minimum charged will be
for one equivalent dwelling unit.
(Ord. 553, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 365-C-1, passed 5-7-2018; Ord. 647, passed 3-
15-2021)
§ 52.04 QUANTITIES OF WATER.
   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewage system and
obtained from sources other than the water utility that serves the town shall
be determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect,
and subject to payment by the user of the method used for measuring such usage,
and the sewage service shall be billed at the appropriate rates; except as
hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that such
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
   (A)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building other than a
single-family dwelling unit discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
water or other liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly
or indirectly, is not a user of water supplied by the water utility serving the
town, and the water used thereon or therein is not measured by a water meter,
or is measured by a water meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of
water used shall be otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to
ascertain the rate or charge provided in this subchapter, the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings
served through the single water meter.
   (D)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out elsewhere herein, except that the minimum charge shall be $26.72 for
Phase 1 and $27.73 for Phase 2 per month per dwelling unit served through the
single water meter. In the case of mobile home courts, the number of dwelling
units shall be computed and interpreted as the total number of mobile home
spaces available for rent plus any other dwelling units served through a meter.
A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room or rooms or any other space or
spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 25,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not
and can not enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party may, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge;
but upon failure to do so, the billing shall be based upon the water usage.
   (F)   In order that domestic and residential users of sewage services shall
not be penalized for sprinkling lawns during the months of July, August and
September, the billing for sewage services for residential and/or domestic
users for said months shall be based upon the average water usage per month for
the previous billed months of October through June, if such average usage is
lower than the summer months, and if the owner of the property has remained the
same. Said sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are partially
or wholly used for commercial or industrial purposes. In the event a portion of
such premises shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes, the owner
shall have the privilege of separating the water service so that the
residential portion of the premises is served through a separate meter, and in
such case the water usage as registered by the water meter serving such portion
of the premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the
sprinkling rate.
   (G)   The provisions of division (F) above may from time to time be extended
to and be applicable in the months of May, June and/or October upon motion and
approval by the Town Council of the town at a duly called public meeting of the
Town Council.
(Ord. 553, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 647, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.05 STRENGTH AND CONTENT OF WASTE WATER.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and wastes for which it is required to treat and
dispose. The town shall require the user, at the user’s expense, to determine
the strength and content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly
or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system, in such manner, by such method,
and at such times as the town may deem practicable in light of the conditions
and attending circumstances of the case, in order to determine the proper
charge.
   (B)   The user shall furnish a central sampling point available to the town
at all times.
      (1)   Normal domestic sewage waste strength should not have biochemical
oxygen demand in excess of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid; suspended solids
in excess of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid; ammonia in excess of 30
milligrams per liter of fluid; phosphorus in excess of seven milligrams per
liter of fluid; and fats, wax, grease or oils, collectively, whether emulsified
or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for
treating stronger-than-normal domestic sewage shall be made on the following
basis.
         (a)   Phase 1.
            1.   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.91 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid.
            2.   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional
charge of $0.91 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in
excess of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid.
            3.   Rate surcharge based upon ammonia. There shall be an
additional charge of $1.10 per pound of ammonia for ammonia received in excess
of 30 milligrams per liter of fluid.
            4.   Rate surcharge based upon phosphorus. There shall be an
additional charge of $2.55 per pound of phosphorus received in excess of 7
milligrams per liter of fluid.
            5.   Rate surcharge based upon oils and grease. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.49 per pound of fats, wax, grease, or oils,
collectively, whether emulsified or not, received in excess of 100 milligrams
per liter of fluid.
         (b)   Phase 2.
            1.   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.94 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid.
            2.   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional
charge of $0.94 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in
excess of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid.
            3.   Rate surcharge based upon ammonia. There shall be an
additional charge of $1.14 per pound of ammonia for ammonia received in excess
of 30 milligrams per liter of fluid.
            4.   Rate surcharge based upon phosphorus. There shall be an
additional charge of $2.64 per pound of phosphorus received in excess of 7
milligrams per liter of fluid.
            5.   Rate surcharge based upon oils and grease. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.51 per pound of fats, wax, grease, or oils,
collectively, whether emulsified or not, received in excess of 100 milligrams
per liter of fluid.
      (2)   The determination of suspended solids, biochemical oxygen demand,
ammonia, phosphorus and fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not,
contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of Standard
Methods for the Elimination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as written
by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in accordance with
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for the Analysis of Pollutants, 40
C.F.R. part 136, as hereinafter amended, supplemented or replaced.
(Ord. 553, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 647, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.06 USERS OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   All provisions hereof to the contrary notwithstanding, the rates and charges
to users of the town sewage works, for lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings, of any type or character, situated outside the corporate boundaries
of the town, shall be set and fixed at 150% of the rates and charges to users
(and lots, parcels of real estate or buildings) within the corporate limits of
the town.
(Ord. 553, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 647, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.07 BILLING; DELINQUENCY.
   All rates and charges herein contemplated shall be prepared, billed, and
collected by the town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which such records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (C)   As is provided by applicable state statute, all rates and charges not
paid when due are hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the
amount of the rates and charges not timely paid shall thereupon attach thereto
and be due and owing. The time at which such rates or charges shall be paid is
now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill by the town to the
person responsible therefor. Additionally, the Board hereby reserves all
charging and collection rights and remedies permitted by I.C. 36-9-23, with
regard to the collection of rates and charges under this subchapter or the
sewer use ordinance (§§
52.25 through
52.38), or amendments, supplements or replacements thereto, dealing with hook-
ups, connections and usage of the sewage system.
(Ord. 553, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 647, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.08 STUDY OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users of user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation,
following the date on which this subchapter goes into effect. Such study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the cost associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users and user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works, and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements to the
wastewater treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness, equity and proportionality
of the rates and charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said
studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town or by a firm of
certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers which firms
shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of officers,
employees, certified public accountants or engineers as the town shall
determine to be best under the circumstances. The town shall, upon completion
of said study, revise and adjust the rates and charges, as necessary, in
accordance therewith in order to maintain the proportionality and sufficiency
of the rates.
(Ord. 553, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 647, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.09 REGULATIONS AND BY-LAWS.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage treatment
works, the sewage collection system, and for the regulation, collection and
rebating and refunding of such rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the NPDES permit issued to the sewage works, or as contained in the
EPA General Pretreatment Regulations, 40 C.F.R. part 403 and any amendments
thereto, or the town’s Pretreatment Program Plan.
(Ord. 553, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 647, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.10 ADMINISTRATIVE RELIEF.
   Any person who believes himself or herself aggrieved through the enforcement
of this subchapter has the right to seek administrative relief before the Town
Council.
(Ord. 553, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 647, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.11 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Board is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate contracts
with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable reduction in cost to
the sewage works can be determined, and such reduction shall be limited to such
reduced costs.
(Ord. 553, passed 3-18-2013; Ord. 647, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 52.12 SEWER RATE PHASES.
   The Phase 1 rates and charges as herein set forth shall become effective for
the first full billing period occurring after March 15, 2021, and continuing
until the Phase 2 rates and charges become effective. The Phase 2 rates and
charges as herein set forth shall become effective for the billing period
occurring on and after the meter reading in December of 2021 and continuing
thereafter.
(Ord. 647, passed 3-15-2021)
SEWER USE PROVISIONS
§ 52.25 TITLE.
   This subchapter may be referred to as the “Town of Middlebury Sewer Use
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 52.26 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as provided herein, the definitions contained in 40 C.F.R. § 401.11
and 40 C.F.R. § 403.3, as amended, shall be applicable in this subchapter and
are hereby incorporated by reference. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Town Council of Middlebury, Indiana, or any duly authorized
officials or representatives acting in its behalf.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of a building drainage system
which receives the discharge of sewage from drainage pipes inside the walls of
the building and conveys it to a point approximately five feet outside the
foundation wall of the building.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sanitary
sewer, private sewage disposal system, or other place of disposal.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A minimum of four grab samples or aliquots, collected over
the period of the work day. The aliquots may be uniform aliquots withdrawn at
uniform flow intervals or flow-proportional aliquots withdrawn at uniform time
intervals.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from the handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample collected over a period of time not to
exceed 15 minutes.
   IDEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town through its
Town Council to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sanitary sewer system.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge into the public sanitary sewer system which, alone
or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, does one
or more of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the sewage works, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal;
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the sewage works’ NPDES
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation); or
      (3)   Prevents the use of the sewage work’s sludge use or disposal in
compliance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits
issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the
Clean Water Act being 33 U.S.C. § 1345, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA)
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq. (including Title II commonly referred to as the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and including state regulations
contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D
of the Solid Waste Disposal Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq.), the Clean Air
Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., and the Toxic Substances Control Act being
15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.
   NPDES PERMIT. A national pollutant discharge elimination system permit
setting forth conditions and limitations for the discharge of any pollutant or
combination of pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant
to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge into the public sanitary sewer system which exits
the sewage works into waters of the United States in quantities or
concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the sewage
works NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation).
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership,
copartnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited
liability company, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the state and political
subdivisions thereof, the United States of America, or other legal entity, or
their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall
include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural where indicated
by the context.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged soil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage,
sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discarded into water.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the sewage works. The reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes,
process changes or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(d), as amended. PRETREATMENT is subject to all applicable rules and
regulations contained in the Code of Federal Regulations as published in the
Federal Register under regulation 40 C.F.R. part 403, as amended.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by public authority.
   PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any water which, during manufacturing, processing or
clean-up comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use
of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product or
waste product.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sanitary sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. A sanitary sewer which is owned and controlled by the
public authority and will consist of the following increments:
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sanitary sewer whose primary purpose is to
collect wastewater from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A sanitary sewer in which wastewater is carried under
pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sanitary sewer whose primary purpose is to
transport wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sanitary sewer
system at which wastewater is collected and pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary sewage and to which storm,
surface and ground water and other unpolluted water are not intentionally
admitted.
   SEWAGE The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions
(including polluted cooling water). The two most common types of sewage are:
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes which is discharged from any commercial or industrial establishment
resulting from any trade or process carried on in that establishment (this
shall include process wastewater, the wastes from pretreatment facilities, and
polluted cooling water). INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE excludes unpolluted water and waste
which contains exclusively sanitary sewage.
      (2)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilets, lavatories, kitchens and other sanitary waste
producing facilities typically associated with domestic uses.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The public sanitary sewers, structures, equipment and
processes to collect, transport and treat sewage and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N; and
      (2)   Any other industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the sewage works (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling
and boiler blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the sewage treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the control authority as defined in 40
C.F.R. § 403.3(f) on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable
potential for adversely affecting the sewage works operation, the quality of
biosolids such that it may negatively impact land application, or for violating
any pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8
(f)(6)).
   SLUG. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including but not
limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge, of sewage or
wastewater which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of
flow has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in
any other way violate the requirements of this chapter.
   STORM SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying storm, surface and ground water
or other unpolluted water from any source and to which sanitary sewage and
industrial sewage are not intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the Town
of Middlebury, Indiana, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams/
liter.
   TOWN. The Town of Middlebury, Indiana.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   USER. A person who discharges any pollutant, sewage, process wastewater, or
wastewater into the sewage works. The term includes both the owner and occupant
of real estate that is the source of a discharge into the sewage works.
   WASTEWATER. Water in which sewage has been discharged.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 52.27 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS AND DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer under the jurisdiction of the town, either directly or indirectly, storm
water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
noncontact cooling water, or other unpolluted water.
   (C)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, noncontact cooling water, or other unpolluted water may be admitted
to storm sewers under the jurisdiction of the town which have adequate capacity
for their accommodation. No person shall connect to such storm sewers, however,
without the specific written permission of the Superintendent.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town, any wastewater, sewage or other water containing pollutants except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter and an NPDES permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet in the town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any
wastewater, sewage or other polluted water except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and an NPDES
permit.
   (F)   Except as provided in the county private sewage disposal system
ordinance, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain in the town any privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of sewage.
   (G)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, abutting on any street,
alley or right-of-way in which there is now or may hereafter be located a
public sanitary sewer under the jurisdiction of the town, is hereby required at
the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet and sanitary facilities therein
and to connect such facilities with the proper public sanitary sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sanitary sewer is within
300 feet of the property line. Any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   (H)   No new connection to the town’s sewage works shall be approved that
would create either a hydraulic or organic overload on the treatment plant,
which is herein defined as any discharge that will exceed 10% of the dry
weather design capacity of the collection system or treatment plant, without an
approved containment or pretreatment plan.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 WHERE PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
52.27(G), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system in accordance and complying with the provisions of the county private
sewage disposal system ordinance.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 52.29 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sanitary sewer, private sewer or appurtenance
thereof which is connected, directly or indirectly, to the town sewage works
under the jurisdiction of the town without first obtaining a written permit
from the Superintendent. No new connections shall be made to a public sanitary
sewer unless there is capacity available to all existing users, downstream
sewers, lift stations, force mains and the sewage treatment plant.
   (B)   The owner or his or her agent shall make application for a building
sewer permit on a form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. An inspection fee shall be paid to
the town at the time the application is filed in accordance with the sewer rate
ordinance (§§
52.01 through
52.11).
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer. A connection fee shall be paid to the
town prior to connection being made to the town’s sewage works in accordance
with the sewer rate ordinance (§§
52.01 through
52.11).
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, then the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, joint
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sanitary sewer,
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, sump pumps,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, floor drains or other sources of
storm, surface and ground water or other unpolluted water to a building sewer
or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer under the jurisdiction of the town.
   (I)   The connection of a building sewer into the public sanitary sewer
shall conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town. In the absence of code provisions
or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No.
9 shall apply. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight.
Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by
the Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sanitary sewer. The construction shall be made under the supervision of the
said Inspector or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following to any public sanitary sewers under the jurisdiction of the town
which may cause or contribute to a pass through or interference event to occur.
These prohibitions apply to all users of the sewage works, whether or not the
user is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or any other
federal, state, or local pretreatment standard or requirements. A user shall
not discharge the following substances to the sewage works:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the sewage
works, including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint
of less than 140°F or 60°C using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. §
261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction
to the flow in the sewage works resulting in interference;
      (3)   Subject to any other limitations or prohibitions contained within
this subchapter, wastewater from any user that exceeds the concentrations below
(hereafter referred to as surcharge limitations) may be accepted and the user
may be subject to surcharges for concentrations greater than as listed below,
in accordance with the terms of the town’s sewer rate ordinance (§§
52.01 through
52.11), as amended:
 
Pollutant                                                      mg/l Sample Type
Ammonia                                                        30   Composite
BOD5                                                           240  Composite
Fats, wax, grease or oils, collectively, whether emulsified or 100  Grab
not
Phosphorus                                                     7    Composite
Total suspended solids (TSS)                                   240  Composite
 
      (4)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
sewage works resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities
that the temperature at the sewage treatment plant exceeds 40°C (104°F);
      (5)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable and biodegradable cutting oil, or
products of mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass
through;
      (6)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the sewage works in a quantity that may cause acute worker health
and safety problems;
      (7)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structure, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works, or that interferes with any sewage treatment
process;
      (10)   Solid or viscous substances, diluted or undiluted, in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not
limited to ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, underground garbage, blood, paunch, manure, hair
and fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, cans, milk containers and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic pollutants in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, create a hazard or toxic effect in the receiving waters of the
sewage treatment plant, or to exceed the limitations set forth in the
applicable Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards or other pretreatment
standards or regulations issued by USEPA or the IDEM. Toxic pollutants are
those identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), as amended. In no case shall any user discharge
any chemical, compound or substance in concentrations greater than 10% of the
LD50 limit as listed on the most recent MSDS for that chemical, compound or
substance; or
      (12)   Wastewater containing concentrations of the following enumerated
pollutants exceeding the following limits (hereinafter referred to as local
limitations):
Pollutant Daily Maximum mg/l Sample Type
Pollutant             Daily Maximum mg/l Sample Type
Arsenic               0.15               Composite
Cadmium               0.33               Composite
Chromium (hexavalent) 0.25               Composite
Chromium (total)      2.50               Composite
Copper                2.00               Composite
Cyanide (total)       0.30               Composite
Lead                  0.33               Composite
Mercury               0.0001             Composite
Nickel                2.00               Composite
Phenols               0.67               Composite
Selenium              0.67               Composite
Silver                0.20               Composite
Zinc                  2.50               Composite
 
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following into a public sanitary sewer under the jurisdiction of the town
without a written permit from the Superintendent.
      (1)   In determining the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to the public sanitary sewers, nature of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors.
      (2)   The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F or
65°C;
         (b)   Any water or waste containing substances which may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F or 0° and 65°C;
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval
of the Superintendent;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing acid iron pickling wastes or
plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
         (e)   Any radioactive wastes;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0;
         (g)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions); or
            3.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes which
constitute a “slug” as defined herein.
         (h)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharges to the receiving waters;
         (i)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants; or
         (j)   Any pollutant(s) that could otherwise cause pass through or
interference.
   (C)   No user shall increase the use of potable water or process wastewater,
or in any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a pretreatment
requirement or standard.
   (D)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sanitary sewers, which waters contain the substances
or possess the characteristics enumerated in divisions (A), (B) or (C) above as
determined by the Superintendent, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Require the submission of information on wastewater
characteristics and obtain prior approval for such discharges from IDEM;
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sanitary sewage as defined or to within limits approved by IDEM;
         (d)   Require control of flow and equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works;
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes; and
         (f)   Require any other measures that the Superintendent or the
Council has legal authority to require.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Council and subject to the
requirements of all applicable laws, codes, ordinances and regulations.
   (E)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at the owner’s expense.
   (F)   The Superintendent may require the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer to install a suitable control manhole, together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer, to facilitate
observations, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be
installed and maintained by the owner at the owner’s expense so as to be safe
and accessible at all times. Agents of the town, the IDEM, and the USEPA shall
be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing upon presentation of appropriate
credentials and identification.
   (G)   The Superintendent may control through permit, order or similar means,
the contribution to the sewage works by each user to ensure compliance with
this subchapter, the town’s NPDES permit, and all other applicable standards
and requirements. In the case of a significant industrial user (SIU), this
control shall be achieved through an industrial wastewater pretreatment permit
(IWP) issued by IDEM.
   (H)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with appropriate methodologies accepted and approved by USEPA, and
shall be determined at the control manhole; provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. Report thereof shall be provided to the
Superintendent within five days after the results are received by the user. In
the event that no special manhole’ has been required, the control manhole shall
be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sanitary sewer
to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out pursuant to USEPA accepted methods.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, discharge,
permit to be deposited or discharged, in any manner whatsoever, any substance
into a public sanitary sewer under the jurisdiction of the town at a point
different than the proposed building sewer connection to the sanitary sewer
system.
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any separate agreement or arrangement between the town and any user
whereby waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the town for
treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the user, at such rates as are
compatible with the sewer rate ordinance (§§ 52.01 through 52.11), so long as
said agreement or arrangement does not directly or indirectly allow any
discharge which will cause pass through or interference or in any way cause the
town to violate the terms of its NPDES permit.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 383A, passed 12-19-2011; Ord. 596, passed 3-
6-2017) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Any user discharging industrial sewage to the sewage works shall
comply with the rules and regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA (40 C.F.R. part
403), the Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants
(40 C.F.R. part 136), the state pretreatment standards (327 I.A.C. 5-18-8), and
this subchapter.
   (B)   Any SIU shall comply with the requirements of the IWP issued by IDEM.
   (C)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town, and no
construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in writing is
granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at the
owner’s expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to
determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with the
applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations and permits. The owner
shall maintain operating records of the influent and effluent to show the
performance of the treatment facilities and for comparison against town
monitoring records.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 52.32 UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling systems, condensing systems
or swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available,
upon written approval by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet upon written approval by the local, state
or federal authority with jurisdiction over the natural outlet.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 52.33 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSIS.
   The Superintendent may require users of the sewage works to supply pertinent
information on wastewater flow characteristics and constituents in order to
verify compliance with the requirements of this subchapter. Such measurements,
tests and analyses shall be made by the user at the user’s expense. The town
may also have such measurements, tests and analyses performed with the expense
of such assessed to the user at the option of the town. Whenever the town
obtains or receives a wastewater or sewage sample for analysis, the town shall
offer to split the sample with the user in order to allow the user an
opportunity to conduct duplicate analytical tests in order to verify the
analytical results received by the town.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 52.34 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided by a user
when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful pollutants. All interceptors or traps
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
located so as to be readily accessible for cleaning and inspection. All
interceptors or traps shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures, shall be of
substantial construction, shall be gas-tight, and shall be equipped with easily
removable covers. Where installed, all interceptors or traps shall be
maintained by the owner, at the owner’s expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times. When the user fails to clean and/or maintain the
interceptor or traps sufficiently, the Superintendent may, in his or her
discretion, require the user to comply with a maintenance schedule established
by the Superintendent through a discharge permit.
   (B)   Specifications for grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall
be in accordance with the Indiana Plumbing Code, as amended or replaced from
time to time, at 675 I.A.C. 16.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 52.35 USERS TO NOTIFY TOWN OF UNUSUAL FLOWS OR WASTES.
   (A)   Any user discharging industrial sewage to the sewage works shall
notify the town at least 30 calendar days in advance of any substantial change
in the volume or character of the discharge.
   (B)   Users of the sewage works shall notify the town immediately after
becoming aware of any discharge by the user constituting a violation of this
subchapter. This notification shall include the location of the discharge, type
of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by
the user.
   (C)   In the case of any slug discharge to the sewage works, the user shall
immediately notify the town of the slug discharge.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 52.36 UNLAWFUL TO DAMAGE AND THE LIKE ANY PART OF SEWAGE WORKS.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the town sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall
be subject to immediate arrest.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.37 REPRESENTATIVES OF TOWN MAY ENTER PREMISES.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees and
representatives of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall
be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, review of MSDS information, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. While performing any
necessary work on private property referred to herein, the Superintendent,
Inspector and other duly authorized employees and representatives of the town
shall observe all reasonable safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the owner.
   (B)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees and
representatives of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall
be permitted to enter all private properties through which the town holds a
right-of-way or an easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in accordance with the terms of the
easement.
   (C)   Should any person deny, prohibit, interfere with or otherwise stop or
impede the entry onto any property pursuant to this subchapter by the
Superintendent, Inspector or other duly authorized employees or representatives
of the town bearing proper credentials and identification, the town shall be
entitled to seek and secure an immediate temporary restraining order without
notice, preliminary injunction or injunction prohibiting such stoppage or
blockage, and authorizing and permitting the entry desired by the town. Any
person causing such stoppage or blockage, or in any fashion aiding or abetting
the same, shall be liable for all costs and expenses encountered by the town in
securing such entry, the same to include court costs, attorney fees and
reimbursement for administration and employee time and expense.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 52.38 APPEAL.
   Any person who believes himself or herself aggrieved through a decision or
action of the Superintendent in the administration of this subchapter may
appeal and seek review thereof before the Council.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person required by §§
52.25 through
52.38 to install a building sewer and connect the same to a public sanitary
sewer of the town who fails to do so consistent with the notice provisions of §
52.27(G) shall be required to pay to the town a civil fine of $500.
Additionally, any such person failing to install and connect such building
sewer to the public sanitary sewer within the 90-day notice provision
aforedescribed, shall immediately from and after the passage of said 90 days,
become liable and responsible for the sewage rate charges established by the
town sewer rate ordinance (§§
52.01 through
52.11) as would pertain to unmetered properties. The assessment of such sewer
charges shall continue for each month from and after the commencement thereof
until such time as the building sewer is properly installed and connected to
the public sanitary sewer consistent with the provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.38. Any person failing to pay the $500 civil fine herein stated, or failing
to pay the sewer charges herein recited, shall be subject to all rights and
remedies of the town pertaining to failure to pay sewage charges, to include
interest, penalties, attorney fees, and other costs of collection, all as set
forth in the town sewer rate ordinance (§§
52.01 through
52.11).
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.25 through
52.38, an IWP permit, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, may be
served by the town with a written notice of violation (NOV) stating the nature
of the violation, providing a reasonable time limit to achieve compliance, and
requiring submission by the user to the town within a specific time a written
response, including corrective measures taken or planned to prevent recurrence
of the violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the town
to take any action, including emergency actions or other enforcement actions,
without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (C)   Any user who is found to have violations under §§
52.25 through
52.38 or any orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, may be
subject to a civil fine of at least $1,000 per day, per violation, but no more
than $2,500 per day, per violation. Each day in which any violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense under this division (C).
   (D)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (B) of this section shall be subject to a civil fine
of at least $1,000 per day, per violation, but no more than $7,500 per day, per
violation for subsequent violations. Each day in which any violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense under this division (D).
   (E)   For any continuing violation, the Superintendent may issue a shutoff
order allowing the town to shut off the user’s supply of municipal water from
the town or direct the user to halt operations or terminate wastewater
discharge until all violations have been corrected.
   (F)   Any civil penalties imposed on a user under§§
52.25 through
52.38 shall be consistent with the town’s enforcement response plan. In
addition, any user violating any of the provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.38 shall be liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned
by the town by reason of such violation, including but not limited to, the
costs and expenses of locating the source of the violation, repairing any
damage to the sewage works caused by such violation, attorney fees, court
costs, sampling and laboratory costs, engineering fees, administrative time and
expense, labor, and all other costs associated with enforcement and compliance
with §§
52.25 through
52.38.
   (G)   Penalty for failure to connect following an order to connect.
      (1)   A penalty assessed in an amount equal to:
         (a)   The rate applicable to unmetered water users of the given class
of users under the town’s effective sewer rate ordinance; plus
         (b)   Any surcharges or assessments for debt service obligations, per
month is reasonable and just (“penalty”).
      (2)   Property owners who have been given notice in accordance with I.C.
36-9-23-30(c) by the town must connect to the sewage works of the town by the
date specified in the order to connect.
      (3)   A property owner’s failure to comply with an order to connect
constitutes a violation of the order to connect and subjects the property owner
to the above penalty.
      (4)   The town may collect and enforce the penalty against property
owners who violate an order to connect pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23.
(Ord. 383, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 596, passed 3-6-2017; Ord. 686, passed 6-5-
2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
70.01   Interference with traffic
   
70.02   [Reserved]
   
70.03   Stop signs, yield signs generally
   
70.04   Weight limits; through truck restrictions
Wayne Street Pedestrian Walkway/Bicycle Trail
   
70.20   Definitions
   
70.21   Regulations
   
70.22   Other laws
   
70.23   General provisions
Middlebury Greenway Pedestrian Walkway/Bicycle Trail
   
70.35   Definitions
   
70.36   Regulations
   
70.37   Other laws
   
70.38   General provisions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall place, push, move, throw or otherwise deposit or cause
to be placed, pushed, moved, thrown or otherwise deposited any snow, ice, sand,
gravel, stones, grass, yard waste or other foreign objects into any road,
street, highway or alley in the town.
   (B)   No person shall install, locate, set or otherwise place any basketball
goal, hockey goal, soccer goal or other sports equipment on any road, street,
highway or alley or within the associated right-of-way thereof which may
obstruct, impede, hamper or otherwise interfere with vehicular traffic, snow
removal, leaf removal, brush removal or trash removal or which may lead to,
contribute toward, cause or result in children or others playing or engaging in
recreational activities on a road, street, highway or alley within the town.
   (C)   Any exceptions to this section must be pre-approved by the Town
Manager or Town Marshal.
(Ord. passed 7-2-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 [RESERVED].
§ 70.03 STOP SIGNS, YIELD SIGNS GENERALLY.
   Pursuant to recommendations of the Town Marshal, the Town Police and Street
Departments are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to place the
respective official traffic control devices and signals listed in this section
at the respective intersections or points listed thereon to regulate and
control local traffic, within the jurisdiction of the Council. These official
traffic control devices and signals shall be placed in accordance with I.C. 9-
21 et seq., and the state manual and specifications for traffic control devices
and signals used in the state. All persons, drivers or operators of vehicles,
or pedestrians, shall obey the instructions of all official traffic control
devices and signals placed in accordance with the provisions of this section
and state law. If any person disobeys an official traffic control device and
signal so placed, that person shall have violated this section, and shall be
subject the penalties and forfeitures specified in I.C. Title 9 regulating
motor vehicles.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1-34) (Ord. 183, passed 5-5-1980)
§ 70.04 WEIGHT LIMITS; THROUGH TRUCK RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This section is made pursuant to the general corporate powers of the
town, including, but not limited to, those powers set forth and contemplated by
I.C. 36-1-3-8, 36-1-4-11, 36-1-6-3, 36-5-2 et seq., and 9-21-4 et seq.
   (B)   A weight limit of 16,000 pounds is hereby established for vehicles
operated on any public road, street, alley or bridge located within the
incorporated areas of the town, excepting any highway or street in the state
highway system.
   (C)   No through trucks shall be operated on any public roads, streets or
alleys within the incorporated areas of the town, excepting any highway or
street in the state highway system. A TRUCK shall be defined for purposes of
this section as any vehicle with a plated weight of 16,000 pounds or more and
which has three or more combined axles including any trailer accompanying the
vehicle. A THROUGH TRUCK shall be defined for purposes of this section as a
truck traveling on any public road, street or alley within the incorporated
areas of the town, exclusive of any highway or street in the state highway
system where the truck is without a verifiable delivery or pick-up on the
traveled street, road or alley or that is not registered to an address on the
traveled street, road or alley.
   (D)   Appropriate signage to give notice of the restrictions and limitations
contained in this section shall be posted in accordance with the requirements
of the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways.
   (E)   The provisions of this section are intended to be penal in nature. No
cause of action, claim, suit, responsibility or liability otherwise accruing to
the Town Council, or any department, agency, instrumentality or division of the
town, shall be modified, reduced, terminated or affected in any fashion by
virtue of the assessment of a fine, the entry of a judgment, or the imposition
of any other form of punishment by any court acting pursuant to this section.
   (F)   The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this section of any
other ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this section.
   (G)   An offense or infraction committed before the effective date of this
section shall be prosecuted and remain punishable under the repealed or amended
ordinance as if this section had not been adopted.
(Ord. 380, passed 6-7-1999; Ord. 380-A, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
WAYNE STREET PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY/BICYCLE TRAIL
§ 70.20 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases as defined in the State Motor Vehicle Code (I.C.
Title 9), as amended, shall be applicable to this subchapter.
   (B)   The pedestrian walkway/bicycle trail along Wayne Street (C.R. 16) in
the town from its point of beginning at Berry Street to its point of
termination at Northridge Drive shall be hereinafter referred to as the “Bi/Ped
Trail.”
(Ord. 382, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 70.21 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Speed limits.
      (1)   No person shall travel upon the Bi/Ped Trail in excess of ten mph.
      (2)   No person traveling on the Bi/Ped Trail shall engage in any racing
activity or speed contest.
   (B)   Unauthorized uses.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, motorized bicycle or
other similar device upon the Bi/Ped Trail, except if a person with a
disability, as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 12101 et seq., operates the device.
      (2)   No person shall ride or allow any horse upon the Bi/Ped Trail.
      (3)   No person shall engage in roller-skating, roller-blading or
skateboarding upon the Bi/Ped Trail, except for roller-skating and roller-
blading on that portion of the Bi/Ped Trail west of Redbud Lane.
   (C)   Right-of way.
      (1)   Pedestrians will have the right-of-way on the Bi/Ped Trail. Bicycle
riders shall use caution while passing or meeting pedestrians.
      (2)   Users of the Bi/Ped Trail shall, when practicable, travel on the
right of center side of the Bi/Ped Trail.
      (3)   Users of the Bi/Ped Trail must activate the crossing flashers
before crossing any street where crossing flashers are available.
   (D)   Compliance with signage.
      (1)   Users of the Bi/Ped Trail must obey the stop signs and speed limit
control signs on the Bi/Ped Trail.
      (2)   The following areas are designated as “Stops” on the Bi/Ped Trail:
         (a)   Traveling west on the Bi/Ped Trail at Northridge Drive;
         (b)   Traveling east on the Bi/Ped Trail at Twin Oaks Drive;
         (c)   Traveling west on the Bi/Ped Trail at Twin Oaks Drive;
         (d)   Traveling east on the Bi/Ped Trail at the crosswalk just prior
to Shoemaker Drive;
         (e)   Traveling west on the Bi/Ped Trail at the crosswalk just past
Shoemaker Drive;
         (f)   Traveling east on the Bi/Ped Trail at Redbud Lane;
         (g)   Traveling west on the Bi/Ped Trail at Redbud Lane;
         (h)   Traveling north on the Bi/Ped Trail at Rogers Street;
         (i)   Traveling south on the Bi/Ped Trail at Rogers Street;
         (j)   Traveling northeast on the Bi/Ped Trail at Lawrence Street; and
         (k)   Traveling southwest on the Bi/Ped Trail at Lawrence Street.
   (E)   Crosswalks.
      (1)   The crosswalk where the Bi/Ped Trail crosses Wayne Street just west
of Shoemaker Drive is hereby established as a legal crosswalk for purposes of
state law.
      (2)   The street crossings of the Bi/Ped Trail at Twin Oaks Drive, Redbud
Lane, Rogers Street, and Lawrence Street are hereby established as legal
crosswalks for purposes of state law.
   (F)   Indiana Uniform Manual on Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways. Signage and pavement markings to implement the control regulations of
this subchapter and the traffic control regulations of state law applicable to
the Bi/Ped Trail shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the
Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(Ord. 382, passed 8-2-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 OTHER LAWS.
   Compliance with the terms and provisions of this subchapter shall not
obviate or eliminate the necessity of complying with any other applicable laws,
rules or regulations of the state or the town.
(Ord. 382, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 70.23 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be construed as follows.
   (A)   Any term in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa.
   (B)   Any term in the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
   (C)   Any prohibition or requirement in this subchapter relating to an act
shall extend to and include the causing, procuring, aiding or abetting,
directly or indirectly, of such act.
   (D)   Any prohibition in this subchapter relating to an act shall extend to
and include an adult’s permitting or allowing an act to be performed by a minor
in the custody of the adult.
(Ord. 382, passed 8-2-1999)
MIDDLEBURY GREENWAY PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY/BICYCLE TRAIL
§ 70.35 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases as defined in the State Motor Vehicle Code (I.C.
Title 9), as amended, shall be applicable to this subchapter.
   (B)   The pedestrian walkway/bicycle trail along the former Pumpkinvine
right-of-way in the town, from its point of beginning at Wayne Street to its
point of termination at York Drive shall be hereinafter referred to as the
“Middlebury Greenway.”
(Ord. 473, passed 8-15-2005)
§ 70.36 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Speed limits.
      (1)   No person shall travel upon the Middlebury Greenway in excess of
ten mph.
      (2)   No person traveling on the Middlebury Greenway shall engage in any
racing activity or speed contest.
   (B)   Unauthorized uses.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, motorized bicycle,
motorized scooter or other similar device upon the Middlebury Greenway, other
than a person with a disability, as defined by the Americans with Disabilities
Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., who operates a motorized wheelchair,
motorized scooter or other similar personal motorized device designed for
persons with a disability.
      (2)   No person shall ride or allow any horse upon the Middlebury
Greenway.
   (C)   Right-of-way.
      (1)   Pedestrians will have the right-of-way on the Middlebury Greenway.
Bicycle riders shall use caution while passing or meeting pedestrians.
      (2)   Users of the Middlebury Greenway shall, when practicable, travel on
the right of center side of the Middlebury Greenway.
      (3)   Users of the Middlebury Greenway must activate the crossing
flashers before crossing any street where crossing flashers are available.
   (D)   Compliance with signage. 
      (1)   Users of the Middlebury Greenway must obey the stop signs and speed
limit control signs on the Middlebury Greenway.
      (2)   The following areas are designated as “Stops” on the Middlebury
Greenway:
         (a)   Traveling south on the Middlebury Greenway at Wayne Street;
         (b)   Traveling north or south on the Middlebury Greenway at Warren
Street;
         (c)   Traveling north or south on the Middlebury Greenway at Crystal
Valley Drive;
         (d)   Traveling north or south on the Middlebury Greenway at Bristol
Avenue; and
         (e)   Traveling north on the Middlebury Greenway at York Drive.
   (E)   Crosswalks. The street crossings of the Middlebury Greenway at Wayne
Street, Warren Street, Crystal Valley Drive and Bristol Avenue are hereby
established as legal crosswalks for purposes of state law.
   (F)   Indiana Uniform Manual on Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways. Signage and pavement markings to implement the control regulations of
this subchapter and the traffic control regulations of state law applicable to
the Middlebury Greenway shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions
of the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways.
(Ord. 473, passed 8-15-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 OTHER LAWS.
   Compliance with the terms and provisions of this subchapter shall not
obviate or eliminate the necessity of complying with any other applicable laws,
rules or regulations of the state or the town.
(Ord. 382, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 70.38 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be construed as follows.
   (A)   Any term in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa.
   (B)   Any term in the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
   (C)   Any prohibition or requirement in this subchapter relating to an act
shall extend to and include the causing, procuring, aiding or abetting,
directly or indirectly, of such act.
   (D)   Any prohibition in this subchapter relating to an act shall extend to
and include an adult’s permitting or allowing an act to be performed by a minor
in the custody of the adult.
(Ord. 382, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of any of the provisions of §
70.01 after having received a written warning and not having corrected the
violation, may be assessed a civil penalty or fined in an amount not to exceed
$100 for the first offense and $250 for a second and each subsequent offense.
Each day that a person remains in violation of any provision of §
70.01 may be considered a separate offense. In the event of an imminent public
safety hazard, as determined by a regular or reserve officer of the Police
Department, the Public Works Superintendent or his or her designee may remove
any physical objects or other violations of this section, and the person
responsible for the violation under §
70.01 shall be responsible for all costs incurred in such removal and the costs
of collection including reasonable attorney fees.
   (B)   Any person operating a vehicle or a combination of vehicles upon a
public street, road, alley or bridge within the incorporated areas of the town
in violation of §
70.04 shall be fined, or have a judgment entered against him or her, in an
amount not to exceed $2,500, and in addition thereto, shall be subject to such
further penalties, as determined by the court that hears and adjudicates
violations of this section, as prescribed by I.C. 34-28-5 et seq., as now in
force, or as hereafter amended.
   (C)   (1)   Persons disobeying the regulations contained in §§
70.20 through
70.23 shall be subject to the penalties and forfeitures specified in I.C. Title
9 regulating motor vehicles.
      (2)   Persons disobeying the regulations contained in §§
70.20 through
70.23 for which penalties and forfeitures are not specified in I.C. Title 9
regulating motor vehicles shall be fined an amount not to exceed $125 per
violation, in addition to court costs and attorney fees incurred by the town.
      (3)   Citations for violations of §§
70.20 through
70.23 may be prepared and issued by officers of the Police Department in
accordance with I.C. 34-28-5-1(e) and I.C. 9-30-3-6, as amended, and shall be
prosecuted in accordance with I.C. 34-28-5 et seq.
   (D)   (1)   Persons disobeying the regulations contained in §§
70.35 through
70.38 shall be subject to the penalties and forfeitures specified in I.C. Title
9 regulating motor vehicles.
      (2)   Persons disobeying the regulations contained in §§
70.35 through
70.38 for which penalties and forfeitures are not specified in I.C. Title 9
regulating motor vehicles shall be fined an amount not to exceed $125 per
violation, in addition to court costs and attorney fees incurred by the town.
      (3)   Citations for violations of §§
70.35 through
70.38 may be prepared and issued by officers of the Police Department in
accordance with I.C. 34-28-5-1(e) and I.C. 9-30-3-6, as amended, and shall be
prosecuted in accordance with I.C. 34-28-5 et seq.
(Ord. 380, passed 6-7-1999; Ord. 382, passed 8-2-1999; Ord. 473, passed 8-15-
2005; Ord. passed 7-2- 2007; Ord. 542, passed 7-2-2012)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Enforcement
   
71.03   Exemptions
   
71.04   Method of parking
   
71.05   Time limits
   
71.06   Authority to impound vehicles
   
71.07   Caution lights
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. The entire width between the boundary-lines of every passage publicly
maintained when any part of that passage if open to the use of the public for
the general purpose of vehicular travel to the properties abutting on that
passage.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
      (1)   Vehicles of the Fire Department, police vehicles and ambulances and
other emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals, or health and hospital
corporations under I.C. 9-13-2-6.
      (2)   Vehicles other than ambulances which are owned by persons, firms or
corporations other than hospitals, and are used in emergency service if such
are authorized to operate as such by the State Department of Highways.
      (3)   Ambulances which are owned by persons, firms or corporations other
than hospitals and which are approved by the State Emergency Medical Services
Commission.
   BICYCLE. Any foot propelled vehicle, irrespective of the wheels in contact
with the ground.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   A part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. 
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. If that intersecting
highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart then every crossing of
two roadways of such highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into three or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LIMITED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have no
legal right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in
such a manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction
over such highway, street or roadway.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle except a motorized bicycle which is self-
propelled and every vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, except a farm tractor or a motorized bicycle with motive power.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices,
including railroad advance warning signs, not inconsistent with I.C. 9-21-2 and
9-21-4 placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, not inconsistent with I.C. 9-
21-2 and 9-21-3, whether manually, electrically or mechanically operated, by
which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner but not by other persons.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP. When required, complete cessation of movement.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop or
yield sign erected as provided under I.C. 9-21-2 and 9-21-4.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, street cars, vehicles and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1-28(a)) (Ord. 106, passed 12-2-1957)
§ 71.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Marshal, or any other law enforcement officers designated by the
Council, the Marshal or the Assistant Town Marshal, shall enforce this title
and all other applicable state traffic laws.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1-28(b)) (Ord. 106, passed 12-2-1957)
§ 71.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to all authorized emergency vehicles, except
that a driver of any authorized emergency vehicle may park or stand
notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, when that authorized emergency
vehicle is being used for an emergency purpose.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1-28(c)) (Ord. 106, passed 12-2-1957)
§ 71.04 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a street or roadway other
than parallel with the edge of the street headed in the direction of the lawful
traffic movement, within lines as marked upon that street, or at an angle to
the curb on the edge of streets on which that angle parking shall be indicated
by signs or markings, and that angle parking to be within the lines designated
by such signs or markings, and in any event with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the street where parallel
parking is designated, or the front right-hand wheel of the vehicle within 12
inches of the curb or edge of the street where angle parking shall be
designated.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in a street or roadway within 30 feet
of the intersecting curb line at any intersection, or where there is no curb at
the nearest line of the roadway.
   (C)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles having an overall length greater
than 20 feet shall park or be parked at any time upon any of the streets in the
town Central Business District.
   (D)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley which blocks or
prevents the flow of traffic through that alley.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1-28(d)) (Ord. 106, passed 12-2-1957) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at any time
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any day of the week, except
Sundays and town holidays, within the district or upon any of the streets or
parts of it described as follows:
      (1)   On either side of Main Street between Berry Street and Warren
Street; and
      (2)   On either side of Warren Street between Brown Street and State
Street.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any parking space included in
division (A) above for longer than 15 minutes between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m. on any day of the week, except Sundays and town holidays.
   (C)   Whenever, by this chapter or any other town ordinance, any parking
time limit is imposed, or parking is prohibited on designated streets, the Town
Marshal shall erect appropriate signs giving notice of that regulation. No such
regulation shall be effective unless those signs are erected and in place at
the time of any alleged offense.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1-28(e)) (Ord. 106, passed 12-2-1957) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal, or any law enforcement official duly selected or
named to enforce the provisions of this chapter, may remove any vehicle from
the street or highway, to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to a
garage maintained by the town under these circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge where that
vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic, and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle by
reason of physical injury is incapacitated and unable to provide for its
custody and removal; or
      (3)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or roadway and is
parked illegally as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to normal movement of
traffic.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street or roadway as
authorized in this chapter, and the officer knows or is able to ascertain from
the registration record in the vehicle, the name and address of its owner, that
officer shall immediately attempt to give or cause to be given notice in
writing to that owner of the fact of the removal, and the reason for it, and
the place to which that vehicle has been removed. If any vehicle is stored in a
public garage, a copy of that notice shall be given to the proprietor of that
garage.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1-28(f)) (Ord. 106, passed 12-2-1957) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 CAUTION LIGHTS.
   (A)   A caution flasher light shall be erected on State Highway 13 where
that highway passes the Middlebury Community School. That flasher light shall
be located in the center of the highway and at a height and place as the
Council shall designate to best give warning to vehicular traffic on that state
highway approaching that school.
   (B)   The proposal of Middlebury Community School to pay for the maintenance
of the flasher sign is accepted.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1-28(h)) (Ord. 116, passed 4-1-1963)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, any person
convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $1 and not more than $10.
   (B)   The town shall provide in duplicate form suitable numbered forms for
notifying violators of this section to appear and answer to charges of
violating traffic laws and ordinances.
   (C)   Except when authorized or directed under state law to immediately take
a person arrested for violation of any of the traffic laws before a magistrate,
any police officer, upon making an arrest for violation of the state traffic
laws or town traffic ordinances, shall take the name, address and operator’s
license number of the alleged violator, and the registered number of the motor
vehicle involved, and shall issue to the alleged violator in writing on a form
provided by the town a notice to answer to the charge against him or her at a
time at least five days after that arrest, to be specified in the notice. The
officer, upon receiving the written promise of the alleged violator to answer
as specified in the notice, shall release that person from custody.
   (D)   Any person who violates his or her written promise to appear given to
an officer upon an arrest for any traffic violation, is guilty of an ordinance
violation regardless of the disposition of the charge on which he or she was
originally arrested.
   (E)   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped
in violation of any of the restriction imposed by this chapter or state law,
the officer finding that vehicle shall take its registration number and may
take any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its
user, and shall conspicuously affix to that vehicle a notice in writing, on a
form provided by the town, for the driver to answer to the charge against him
or her within two days during the hours and at a place specified in the notice.
   (F)   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking
under this chapter does not appear in response to a notice affixed to that
motor vehicle within two days, the Town Marshal shall send to the owner of the
motor vehicle, to which the notice was affixed, a letter informing him or her
of the violation, and warning him or her that if that letter is disregarded for
two days, a complaint shall be filed and a warrant of arrest issued.
   (G)   In any prosecution charging the violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of a law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of that parking the registered owner of that vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prime facie presumption that the registered owner of
that vehicle was the person who parked or placed that vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which that violation occurred.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1-28(i)) (Ord. 106, passed 12-2-1957)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Town Hall and Police Station; Parking
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Prohibition on parking
   
72.03   Erection of signage
   
72.04   Enforcement
   
72.05   Authority to impound vehicles or personal property
   
72.06   Procedures
Snow Emergencies
   
72.20   Definition of snow emergency
   
72.21   Declaration of snow emergency
   
72.22   Parking restrictions during snow emergency
   
72.23   Snow emergency parking exemptions
   
72.24   Violations
   
72.25   Construction
   
72.26   Authority of Town Council President
 
   
72.99   Penalty
TOWN HALL AND POLICE STATION; PARKING
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK. The standing or placement of a vehicle or personal property, whether
or not occupied, and whether or not attended to, by the owner, user or operator
thereof.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any and all items of property, except real estate, to
include vehicles, machinery, supplies, materials, inventory, equipment and any
and all other tangible property items.
   SANCTIONED EVENT. An event, meeting, undertaking or other activity at the
Town Hall property, expressly permitted or authorized by the Town Council, the
Town Manager, the Clerk or other officers or officials of the town not
constituting Town Hall business.
   TOWN HALL BUSINESS. The undertaking of business activities, discussions,
meetings, communications or dealings with employees, officers, agents or
officials of the town, at or upon the Town Hall property.
   TOWN HALL PROPERTY. The real estate described in the ordinance codified
herein, and all improvements, buildings, structures and facilities located
thereon.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or other public road or street, the same
to include, but not to be limited to, automobiles, trucks, tractors, trailers
and horse-drawn carriages.
(Ord. 337, passed 3-10-1996)
§ 72.02 PROHIBITION ON PARKING.
   No owner, operator or user of any vehicle or personal property shall park or
cause to be parked such vehicle or personal property on the Town Hall property
for any purpose other than Town Hall business or a sanctioned event; this
prohibition shall apply 24 hours per day and seven days per week, and is not,
in any fashion, governed or affected by the hours of operation by the town of
the Town Hall property.
(Ord. 337, passed 3-10-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 ERECTION OF SIGNAGE.
   The Town Manager and Town Marshal are herewith directed to erect and place
appropriate signs on the Town Hall property alerting all persons to the
existence of this subchapter and the prohibition on parking on the Town Hall
property as herein stated.
(Ord. 337, passed 3-10-1996)
§ 72.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Marshal, and any other law enforcement officers designated by the
Town Council, or the Marshal, shall enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 337, passed 3-10-1996)
§ 72.05 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES OR PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Town Marshal, or any other law enforcement official duly selected
or named to enforce the provisions of this subchapter, may remove any vehicle
or personal property from the Town Hall property to the nearest garage or other
place of safety, or to a garage maintained by the town, when any vehicle or
personal property is parked on the Town Hall property in violation of the terms
and conditions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle or personal property from the
Town Hall property as authorized by this subchapter, and the officer knows or
is able to ascertain from the registration record in the vehicle or otherwise
the name and address of its owner, that officer shall immediately give or cause
to be given notice in writing to that owner of the fact of the removal, and the
reason for it, and the place to which the vehicle or personal property has been
removed. If any vehicle is stored in a public garage, a copy of that notice
shall be given to the proprietor of that garage.
   (C)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from the Town Hall property as
herein stated, and does not know or is not able to ascertain the name of the
owner, or for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as
provided in division (B) above, and if the vehicle is not returned to the owner
within 72 hours after the removal, then the officer shall immediately send or
cause to be sent written report of that removal by U.S. mail to the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and shall file a copy of that notice with the
proprietor of any public garage in which that vehicle shall be stored. The
notice shall include a description of the vehicle, the date and time from which
it was removed from the Town Hall property, and the name of the garage or place
where the vehicle is stored.
   (D)   Whenever an officer removes personal property from the Town Hall
property under the provisions of this subchapter, and does not know or is not
able to ascertain the name of the owner, or for any other reason is not able to
give the notice to the owner as provided in division (B) above, and if the
personal property is not returned to the owner within 72 hours after removal,
then the officer shall cause to be placed in the office of the Marshal of the
town a description of the personal property, the date and time when such was
removed, and the name of the garage or place where the personal property is
stored.
   (E)   Any public garage taking or holding personal property or a vehicle
under the provisions of this subchapter shall be entitled to charge and assess
against such vehicle and/or personal property, and/or the owner thereof, such
reasonable hauling, transport, towing and storage fees as such public garage
shall normally impose when so acting as and to such a vehicle or personal
property, and such public garage shall be under no duty to release such vehicle
or such personal property until all such charges have in fact been paid by the
owner or other person claiming the same.
(Ord. 337, passed 3-10-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal, and all other officers authorized to enforce the
terms and conditions of this subchapter, shall treat all persons violating this
subchapter to have committed a “traffic offense” as contemplated by I.C. 9-30-
3-1 et seq., and to arrest and/or refrain from arresting any such violator,
consistent with the provisions of I.C. 9-30-2-1 et seq. and I.C. 9-30-3-1 et
seq.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle or personal property without a known driver,
operator or owner is found parked in violation of this subchapter, the officer
finding that vehicle or personal property shall, if possible, take its
registration number and/or any other information displayed on the vehicle or
personal property which may identify its owner, user or operator, and shall
conspicuously affix to that vehicle or personal property a notice in writing,
on a form as contemplated by I.C. 9-30-2-1 and/or I.C. 9-30-3-1 et seq., for
that person to answer to the charge against him or her within 72 hours at a
place specified in the notice. If a violator under this subchapter does not
appear in response to the notice affixed to that vehicle or personal property,
the Town Marshal shall send to the owner of the vehicle and/or personal
property to which the notice is affixed, if such information is available to
him or her, a letter informing him or her of the violation, and warning him or
her that if that letter is disregarded for 72 hours a complaint shall be filed
and a summons or warrant of arrest issued.
   (C)   In any prosecution charging a violation of this subchapter, proof that
a particular vehicle described in a complaint was parked in violation of this
subchapter, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of that parking a registered owner of that vehicle, shall
constitute evidence of prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
that vehicle was the person who parked that vehicle in violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 337, passed 3-10-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.20 DEFINITION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   A SNOW EMERGENCY is defined to be the period of time during and after a
snowfall when vehicular traffic is expected to be particularly hazardous or
congested due to the elements and when the parking of vehicles on the public
streets could hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct the movement of traffic
and the proper cleaning, clearing and removal of snow and ice from the public
streets in the town.
(Ord. 567, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 72.21 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   A snow emergency will be declared by executive order issued by the Town
Council President or his or her duly appointed representative when, based on
reasonable judgment and discretion, the circumstances warrant the declaration
of such emergency for the public safety in the town. The executive order will
be filed in the office of the Clerk, posted at the Town Hall, and promptly
communicated to local radio and television stations, news services and social
media either during or after a snowfall. A declared snow emergency will begin
upon issuance of the executive order and will continue in effect until the Town
Council President or his or her duly appointed representative terminates the
snow emergency upon a determination that the snow emergency conditions no
longer exist. The termination of the declared snow emergency will be filed in
the office of the Town Clerk, posted at the Town Hall, and communicated to the
same media which were used to announce its declaration.
(Ord. 567, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 72.22 PARKING RESTRICTIONS DURING SNOW EMERGENCY.
   During a declared snow emergency, parking will be regulated as follows.
   (A)   Parking on all public streets within the town will be permitted only
on the sides of the streets with even-numbered addresses on the days of the
month with even-numbered dates; parking on all public streets within the town
will be permitted only on the sides of the streets with odd-numbered addresses
on days of the month with odd-numbered dates.
   (B)   In areas where parking is already restricted by other regulation to
one side of the street, the declaration of the snow emergency will override the
preexisting designated no parking regulations for the duration of the declared
snow emergency and allow parking in accordance with the provisions of division
(A) above.
   (C)   No parking will be allowed on either side of a dead-end street within
100 feet of the dead-end.
   (D)   No parking will be allowed within the circle of any cul-de-sac.
(Ord. 567, passed 11-3-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 SNOW EMERGENCY PARKING EXEMPTIONS.
   The following areas will be exempt from the parking restrictions and
regulations contained in this subchapter during a declared snow emergency:
   (A)   All of Main Street/State Road 13; and
   (B)   E. Warren Street from State Street to Main Street.
(Ord. 567, passed 11-3-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any police officer may remove or cause to be removed any vehicle found
to be in violation of the parking restrictions and regulations contained within
this subchapter.
   (B)   Such vehicle or vehicles may be removed to any property owned by the
town or to a private garage or location authorized pursuant to a contract with
the town for vehicle impoundment and storage. Such vehicle or vehicles will be
released only upon payment by the owner of the vehicle for all expenses of
removal, impoundment and storage.
(Ord. 567, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 72.25 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   To the extent that any provision of this subchapter is ultimately
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be pre-empted by any state
or federal law, this subchapter shall automatically be deemed amended by
eliminating the pre-empted provision and incorporating in its place the
applicable provision of the preempting state or federal law.
   (B)   Each provision of this subchapter shall be construed as separate, to
the end that if any part of it shall be held invalid for any reason, the
remainder shall continue in full force and effect.
   (C)   Compliance with the requirements of this subchapter does not eliminate
the need for complying with any other applicable federal, state or local law or
regulation concerning any declared federal, state or local disaster emergency.
(Ord. 567, passed 11-3-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   It is hereby acknowledged, understood and declared by the Town Council that
under this subchapter the Town Council President and his or her duly appointed
representative is vested with the authority to exercise his or her discretion
and judgment in order to protect and preserve the public health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the town in implementing this subchapter.
The authority of the Town Council President and his or her duly appointed
representative to issue, deny, suspend or revoke, or fail or refuse to issue,
deny, suspend or revoke any snow emergency declaration under this subchapter is
hereby declared to be discretionary. The appointment of a representative by the
Town Council President for purposes of implementing this subchapter must be in
writing, signed and certified to by the Town Council President, and filed with
the Town Clerk prior to the declaration of any snow emergency by such
representative in reliance upon that appointment.
(Ord. 567, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
72.01 through
72.06 shall be deemed an infraction. Upon determination of such violation by a
court of competent jurisdiction, any person who has violated §§
72.01 through
72.06 shall be fined not less than $10 and not more than $1,000, in addition to
being responsible for all court costs and assessments, and all towing, hauling,
transport, or storage fees as contemplated in §
72.05(E).
(Ord. 337, passed 3-10-1996)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No through trucks
      
II.   Crosswalks
      
III.   Caution light; traffic lights
      
IV.   Speed limits
      
V.   Stop streets
      
VI.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. NO THROUGH TRUCKS.
   (A)   No through truck traffic shall be allowed and the Town Public Works
Department is hereby authorized to post “NO THROUGH TRUCKS” signs at the
following locations:
 
Street              Location
Claire Lane         From Westlake Estates to Spring Valley Drive
Heritage Drive      From U.S. 20 south to its dead-end
Orpha Drive         From U.S. 20 to S.R. 13
Spring Valley Drive From U.S. 20 to Claire Lane
 
   (B)   Persons disobeying this schedule shall be subject to the penalties and
forfeitures specified in I.C. Title 9 regulating motor vehicles.
(Ord. 379, passed 4-5-1999)
SCHEDULE II. CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Crosswalks.
      (1)   A legal crosswalk is hereby established for purposes of state law
on Bristol Avenue approximately 268 feet northwest of Railroad Street in the
town.
      (2)   A legal crosswalk is hereby established for purposes of state law
on Winslow Street centered approximately 90 feet east of the eastern curb line
of S.R. 13/Main Street in the town.
   (B)   Indiana Uniform Manual on Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways. Signage and pavement markings to implement the legal crosswalks
established by this schedule and the traffic control regulations of state law
applicable to the legal crosswalks shall be in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Persons disobeying the regulations contained in this schedule shall
be subject to the penalties and forfeitures specified in the Uniform Act
Regulating Traffic on Streets and Highways of the state.
      (2)   Persons disobeying the regulations contained in this schedule for
which penalties and forfeitures are not specified in I.C. Title 9 regulating
motor vehicles shall be fined an amount not to exceed $125 per violation, in
addition to court costs and attorney fees incurred by the town.
      (3)   Citations for violations of this schedule may be prepared and
issued by officers of the Town Police Department in accordance with I.C. 34-28-
5-1 and I.C. 9-30-3-6, as amended, and shall be prosecuted in accordance with
I.C. 34-28-5 et seq.
(Ord. 387, passed 5-15-2000; Ord. 391, passed 11-6-2000)
SCHEDULE III. CAUTION LIGHT; TRAFFIC LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   A caution flasher light be erected as soon as possible on State
Highway 13 where said highway passes the Middlebury Community School; and that
said flasher light be located in the center of the highway and at such height
and place as the representative of the said Town Council shall designate to
best give warning to vehicular traffic on said state highway approaching the
area of said school.
      (2)   The proposal of Middlebury Community School to pay for the expense
of erecting the same and the maintenance thereof be accepted by the town.
   (B)   Automatic traffic lights: Warren Street and Main Street; York Drive at
State Road 13.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-1-1963; 1985 Code, § 9-4-1-34)
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle on the following streets at a
speed greater than the speed limits listed below:
Street Location Speed Limit
Street                   Location                                 Speed Limit
Bristol Avenue           Between north city limits and Hemsberd   40 mph
                         Street (CR 14)
Bristol Avenue           From Hemsberd Street to Main Street      30 mph
Park Place                                                       25 mph
River Park Drive                                                 25 mph
Spring Meadow Farm Drive From S.R. 13 to its terminus in both     25 mph
                         directions
Villas Drive                                                     25 mph
Warren Street (C.R. 16)  From S.R. 13 (Main Street) to C.R. 116   30 mph
Wayne Street             From west city limits to Shoemaker Drive 40 mph
York Drive               From center of S.R. 13 in a northwest    20 mph
                         direction to the town limits
York Drive               From S.R. 13 to C.R. 12                  30 mph
York Drive               From S.R. 13 to the north town limits    20 mph
 
   (B)   The Town Street Department and/or Marshal’s office is directed and
authorized to erect speed limit signs at appropriate locations pursuant to I.C.
9-21-2, 9-21-4 and 9-21-5, and that persons disobeying such traffic control
devices be subject to the penalties and forfeitures specified in I.C. Title 9
regulating motor vehicles.
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1-58) (Ord. 232, passed - -; Ord. 233, passed - -; Ord. 234,
passed - -; Ord. passed 7-11-1983; Ord. 202, passed 7-11-1983; Ord. 183, passed
7-20-1998; Ord. passed 11-7-2005; Ord. passed 11-28-2005; Ord. passed 6-5-2006;
Ord. passed 7-2-2012; Ord. passed 8-14-2014)
SCHEDULE V. STOP STREETS.
      (A)   Pursuant to recommendations of the Marshal of the town, and the
Police Department thereof, the Town Police Department and the Street Department
are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to place the respective traffic
control devices listed below at the respective intersections or points listed
thereon to regulate and control local traffic, within the jurisdiction of the
Town Council, as set forth below. The traffic control devices shall be placed
in accordance with I.C. 9-21-2 and 9-21-4, and the State Manual and
Specifications for Traffic Control Devices used in the state.
   (B)   From and after the date of the placement of said traffic control
devices and the effective date of this schedule, all persons, drivers or
operators of vehicles, or pedestrians, be, and the same hereby are, directed
and required to obey the instructions of all such traffic control devices
placed in accordance with the provisions of this schedule and state law, and
should any such person disobey any such traffic control device so placed, said
person shall have violated this schedule, and shall be subject the penalties
and forfeitures specified in I.C. Title 9 regulating motor vehicles.
Traffic Control Location Direction of Travel
Traffic Control         Location                            Direction of Travel
Automatic traffic light On Warren Street at Main Street     West
Automatic traffic light On Warren Street at Main Street     East
Automatic traffic light On Main Street at Warren Street     North
Automatic traffic light On Main Street at Warren Street     South
2-way stop              Crystal Valley Drive and Railroad   East and West
                        Street
Stop                    On Mill Street at East Warren       North
                        Street
Stop                    On Mill Street at East Lawrence     South
                        Street
Stop                    On Mill Street at East Lawrence     North
                        Street
Stop                    On Mill Race Manor at East Wise     North
                        Street
Stop                    On Spring Street at South Main      East
                        Street
Stop                    On Lawrence Street at Main Street   East
Stop                    On Lawrence Street at Main Street   West
Stop                    On Berry Street at Main Street      West
Stop                    On Berry Street at Main Street      East
Stop                    On Mall Street at State Street      East
Stop                    On Brown Street at Warren Street    South
Stop                    On Brown Street at Warren Street    North
Stop                    On Warren Street at Wayne Street    East
Stop                    On Brown Street at Berry Street     South
Stop                    On Brown Street at Berry Street     North
Stop                    On Brown Street at Lawrence Street  South
Stop                    On Berry Street at Wayne Street     West
Stop                    On Lawrence Street at Wayne Street  West
Stop                    On Railroad Street at Wayne Street  East
Stop                    On Berry Street at Wayne Street     East
Stop                    On South State Street at East       North
                        Lawrence Street
Stop                    On South State Street at East       South
                        Lawrence Street
Stop                    On Brown Street at Bristol Street   North
Stop                    On Brown Street at Bristol Street   South
Stop                    On County Road 14 at Bristol Street East
Stop                    On Brown Street at Pleasant Street  North
Stop                    On Pleasant Street at Main Street   East
Stop                    On Pleasant Street at Bristol       West
                        Street
Stop                    On Railroad Street at Bristol       North
                        Street
Stop                    On Grand Street at West Berry       North
                        Street
Stop                    On Grand Street at West Berry       South
                        Street
Stop                    On Crystal Valley Drive at          West
                        Greenfield Drive
Stop                    On Redbud Lane at Wayne Street      North
Stop                    On Skyview Drive at Wayne Street    East
Stop                    Skyview Drive at Highland Drive     West
Stop                    On Shoemaker Drive at Highland      North
                        Drive
Stop                    On Shoemaker Drive at Wayne Street  South
Stop                    On Woodbridge Court at Skyview      East
                        Drive
Stop                    On County Road 14 at State Road 13  West
Stop                    On Orpha Drive at State Road 13     East
Stop                    On Orpha Drive at U.S. 20           West
Stop                    On Dawn Estates Drive at State Road West
                        13
Stop                    On Grand Street at Wayne Street     South
Stop                    On Krider Drive at Crystal Valley   South
                        Drive
Stop                    River Park Drive at East Warren     North
                        Street
Stop                    River Park Drive at River Park      Northeast
                        Drive
Stop                    Park Place at River Park Drive      North
Stop                    Villas Drive at County Road 116     East
Stop                    Villas Drive at River Park Drive    West
Stop                    Northern Lites Drive at Eastern     East
                        Star Drive
Stop                    Dipper Drive at Southern Cross      North
                        Drive
Stop                    Woodbridge Court at Skyview Drive   East
Stop                    Caprice Drive at Sunset Drive       West
Stop                    Caprice Drive at Redbud Lane        East and West
Stop                    Grand Street at West Warren         North
Stop                    Crystal Valley Drive at North Brown East
                        Street
Stop                    Crystal Valley Drive at Greenfield  West
                        Drive
Stop                    Greenfield Drive at Skyview Drive   South
Stop                    On South Mill Street at East Spring South
                        Street
Stop                    Scott Street at East Berry Street   North and South
Stop                    East Berry Street at Mill Street    East
Stop                    Scott Street at East Lawrence       North and South
                        Street
Stop                    State Street at East Spring Street  South
Stop                    Bluebird Lane at East Spring Street South
Stop                    Bluebird Lane at East Lawrence      North
                        Street
Stop                    Rogers Street at West Wayne Street  North
Stop                    Highland Drive at Skyview Drive     East
Stop                    Shoemaker Drive at Highland Drive   North
Stop                    Somerset Drive at Shoemaker Drive   West
Stop                    Somerset Drive at Skyview Drive     East
Stop                    Spring Valley Drive at Sharon Court North and South
                        Drive
Stop                    Spring Valley Drive at Claire Lane  North and South
Stop                    Sunburst Lane at Redbud Lane        East
Stop                    South Mill Street at Eugene Drive   South
Stop                    Dawn Estates Drive at Southern      North
                        Cross and Northern Lites Streets
Stop                    Deer Run at Antler Drive and Orpha  North
                        Drive
Stop                    Pointe Boulevard at Rogers Drive    West
Stop                    Normandy Way at Brittany Court      East
Stop                    West Warren Street at Railroad      East and West
                        Street
Stop                    Railroad Street at West Warren      North and South
                        Street
Stop                    Heritage Drive at Spring Crossing   North and South
Stop                    Elroy Drive at Industrial Parkway   North
                        East
Stop                    On State Street at East Warren      South
                        Street
Stop                    On Scott Street at East Warren      South
                        Street
Stop                    On Scott Street at East Warren      North
                        Street
Stop                    On State Street at East Warren      North
                        Street
Stop                    On Winslow Street at Main Street    West
Stop                    On State Street at Berry Street     South
Stop                    On State Street at Berry Street     North
Stop                    On Mall Street at State Street      East
 
(1985 Code, § 9-4-1-34) (Ord. 183, passed 5-5-1980; Ord. 183, passed - -; Ord.
183, passed - -; Ord. 183, passed - -; Ord. 183, passed - -; Ord. 183, passed -
-; Ord. 183, passed - -; Ord. 183, passed - -; Ord. 183, passed - -; Ord.
passed - -; Ord. 235, passed - -; Ord. 235, passed - -; Ord. 261, passed 1-20-
1990; Ord. 262, passed 1-22-1990; Ord. passed 11-20-2000; Ord. passed 5-17-
2004; Ord. passed 8-16-2004; Ord. passed 8-4-2008; Ord. passed 8-4-2014)
SCHEDULE VI. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   On east side of Brown Street on Mall Street for westbound on Mall
Street;
   (B)   On east side of Main Street on Mall Street for eastbound on Mall
Street;
   (C)   On west side of Main Street for westbound on Mall Street;
   (D)   Between Main Street and State Street for alley (west to east traffic);
and
   (E)   South Brown Street, from Warren Street south to Berry Street
southbound only.
(Ord. passed 12-7-1987; Ord. passed 5-2-1988; Ord. passed 10-5-2009)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   (A)   That vehicle parking is prohibited on the public streets and roads in
the Town of Middlebury, Indiana at the locations as designated below.
   (B)   That the Middlebury Public Works Department and Middlebury Town
Marshal are hereby authorized and directed to erect ‘"No Parking” signs or curb
markings prohibiting vehicle parking at the afore-stated locations where
parking is not permitted pursuant to I.C. 9-21-16 et seq. in accordance with
the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (C)   That vehicle parking is prohibited on the public streets and roads
anywhere in the Town of Middlebury, Indiana except by vehicles properly
licensed and registered and for which the owner can provide a current proof of
registration.
   (D)   That vehicle parking is prohibited on the public streets and roads
anywhere in the Town of Middlebury, Indiana when the vehicle is parked in the
same or substantially the same location for more than 96 hours consecutively.
   (E)   That vehicle parking is prohibited on the public streets and roads
anywhere in the Town of Middlebury, Indiana when the vehicle parked is longer
than 25 feet in length.
   (F)   That the terms and provisions of this schedule shall be governed by
I.C. Title 9 and the definitions contained therein.
   (G)   That persons disobeying the parking regulations in this schedule shall
be subject to the penalties and forfeitures specified in I.C. Title 9 and in
the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways of the State of Indiana.
Designated Areas of Prohibited Parking and Exceptions Under The Middlebury
Parking Ordinance*
Street Side of Street From To Exceptions
Designated Areas of Prohibited Parking and Exceptions Under The Middlebury
Parking Ordinance*
Street          Side of Street From            To              Exceptions
14th Avenue     Both sides     SR 13           Municipal        
                                               boundary
Antler Drive    Both sides     Orpha Drive     Cul-de-sac       
Antler Drive    Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               2               2
Arbor Court     Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               11              11
Bambi Court     West side      Fawn Drive      Dead end         
Bambi Court     Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               4               4
Bambi Court     Cul-de-sac     Point C Exhibit Point D Exhibit  
                               4               4
Bristol Avenue  Both sides     Railroad Street Main Street      
Brittany Court  Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               6               6
Brown Street    West side      Berry Street    Lawrence Street  
Brown Street    East side      Warren Street   Berry Street     
Brown Street    East side      Crystal Valley  Bristol Avenue   
                               Drive
Caprice Drive   North side     Sunset Lane     Horizon Lane     
Crystal Valley  Both sides     Brown Street    Railroad Street  
Drive
Dawn Estates    West side and  N. Main Street  Cul-de-sac       
Drive           north side
Dawn Estates    Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
Drive                          22              22
Dipper Drive    West side      Southern Cross  Cul-de-sac       
                               Drive
Dipper Drive    Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               23              23
Dogwood Drive   North side     Horizon Lane    Redbud Lane      
E. Berry Street South side     S. Main Street  Mill Street      
                               Point A Sch. I  Point B Sch. I
E. Berry Street North side     attached to     attached to      
                               Ord. 658-A      Ord. 658-A
E. Lawrence     South side     S. Main Street  Bluebird Lane    
Street
E. Spring       South side     S. Main Street  Dead end         
Street
E. Warren       North side     N. Main Street  State Street     
Street
E. Warren       Both sides     State Street    Mill Street      
Street
Eastern Star    East side      Northern Lites  Southern Cross   
Drive                          Drive           Drive
Eugene Drive    North side     West end        East end         
Fawn Drive      Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               3               3
Fawn Drive      Cul-de-sac     Point C Exhibit Point D Exhibit  
                               3               3
Fawn Drive      South side     Antler Drive    Bambi Court      
Fieldstone Lane West side      Spring Arbor    Cul-de-sac       
                               Drive
Fieldstone Lane Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               10              10
Fieldstone Lane Cul-de-sac     Point C Exhibit Point D Exhibit  
                               10              10
Fieldstone Lane Cul-de-sac     Point E Exhibit Point F Exhibit  
                               10              10
Grand Street    West side      Wayne Street    Berry Street     
Heritage Drive  West side      U.S. 20         Spring Valley    
                                               Drive
Hidden Court    Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               13              13
Hidden Court    West side      Hidden Meadow   Cul-de-sac       
                               Lane
Hidden Meadow   North side     Spring Valley   Cul-de-sac       
Lane                           Drive
Hidden Meadow   Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
Lane                           12              12
Hidden Meadow   Cul-de-sac     Point C Exhibit Point D Exhibit  
Lane                           12              12
Hidden Meadow   South side     Point C Exhibit Point D Exhibit  
Lane                           13              13
Highfield Court Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               14              14
Highfield Court Cul-de-sac     Point C Exhibit Point D Exhibit  
                               14              14
Highfield Court South side     Heritage Drive  Cul-de-sac       
Highland Drive  Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               19              19
Highland Park   Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
Drive                          21              21
Horizon Lane    East side      Redbud Lane     Dogwood Drive    
Horizon Lane    Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               7               7
Horizon Lane    Cul-de-sac     Point C Exhibit Point D Exhibit  
                               7               7
Krider Drive    West side      Crystal Valley  Hemsberd Street  
                               Drive
Mall Street     North side     S. Main Street  Mill Street      
Mill Street     West side      Eugene Drive    Warren Street    
Morningstar     Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
Court                          9               9
Morningstar     Cul-de-sac     Point C Exhibit Point D Exhibit  
Court                          9               9
Morningstar     Cul-de-sac     Point E Exhibit Point F Exhibit  
Court                          9               9
Morningstar     Cul-de-sac     Point G Exhibit Point H Exhibit  
Court                          9               9
Normandy Way    Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               5               5
Northern Lites  North side     Dawn Estates    Eastern Star     
Drive                          Drive           Drive
Oak Hill Court  South side     Heritage Drive  Cul-de-sac       
Oak Hill Court  Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               17              17
Orpha Drive     Both sides     Municipal       SR 13            
                               boundary
Park Place      Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               8               8
Pleasant Street Both sides     N. Main Street  Bristol Avenue   
                                                               Dedicated
Railroad Street Both sides     Bristol Avenue  Wayne Street    parking cuts at
                                                               the south end of
                                                               Railroad Street
Redbud Lane     East side      Wayne Street    Caprice Drive    
Rocky Lane      South side     Heritage Drive  Cul-de-sac       
Rocky Lane      Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               18              18
                                               Normandy Way/
Rogers Street   North side     Wayne Street    Pointe           
                                               Boulevard
Sharon Court    South side     Spring Valley   Morningstar      
                               Drive           Court
Sharon Court    North side     Spring Valley   Heritage Drive   
                               Drive
Somerset Drive  South side     Skyview Drive   Shoemaker Drive  
Southern Cross  South/southw   Eastern Star    Northern Lites   
Drive           est side       Drive           Drive
Spring Street   Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
                               1               1
Spring Arbor    West side and  Spring Valley   Claire Lane      
Drive           north side     Drive
Spring Crossing North side     Spring Valley   Heritage Drive   
Drive                          Drive
Spring Hill     South side     Heritage Drive  Cul-de-sac       
Court
Spring Hill     Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
Court                          15              15
Spring Hill     Cul-de-sac     Point C Exhibit Point D Exhibit  
Court                          15              15
Spring Valley   West side      U.S. 20                        Heritage Drive
Drive
                                                               Designated angle
State Street    Both sides     Winslow Street  E. Berry Street parking on west
                                                               side by East
                                                               Park
State Street    West side      E. Berry Street E. Lawrence      
                                               Street
Summer Hill     South side     Heritage Drive  Cul-de-sac       
Court
Summer Hill     Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
Court                          16              16
Sunburst Lane   North side     Redbud Lane     Sunset Lane      
Sunset Lane     West side      Sunburst Lane   Caprice Drive    
Wayne Street    Both sides     W. Warren       W. Lawrence      
                               Street          Street
W. Berry Street North side     Brown Street    Wayne Street     
W. Lawrence     South side     SR 13           Pumpkinvine      
Street                                         Trail
W. Lawrence     North side     Main Street     Brown Street     
Street
W. Spring       South side     S. Main Street  Dead end         
Street
Woodbridge      Cul-de-sac     Point A Exhibit Point B Exhibit  
Court                          20              20
York Drive      Both sides     SR 13           County Road 12   
* "Exhibits" refer to the Exhibits attached to Ord. 658 et seq. except where
otherwise noted, which are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 263, passed 1-22-1990; Ord. passed 5-17-2004; Ord.
passed 4-3-2006; Ord. passed 10-21-2013; Ord. 658, passed 8-16-2021; Ord. 658-
A, passed 10-18-2021; Ord. 658-B, passed 12-20-2021; Ord. 658-C, passed 12-31-
2022)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERY
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   FIRE PROTECTION
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
97.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Fowl
   
90.02   Regulating and requiring humane treatment of animals and the control of
animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 FOWL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, company or corporation,
who shall be the owner, or have in his or her or their care and custody, any
chicken, ducks, geese, turkey or other domestic fowl, to allow any such fowl
above named to run at large upon any street or alley, or upon any enclosed or
un-enclosed lot or lots or parcel of land of another, within the corporate
limits of the town, between April 1 and November 1 of any year.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Marshal or Street Commissioner of the town
the enforce any and all provisions of this section, and shall proceed to
prosecute any person, persons, company or corporation found violating any of
the provisions herein set forth.
(Ord. 66, passed 5-3-1915) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 REGULATING AND REQUIRING HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS AND THE CONTROL OF
ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definition of terms. The following words and phrases when used in this
section shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section
unless the context otherwise indicates:
      ABANDONMENT. The voluntary relinquishment of possession by the owner with
the intention of terminating ownership but without vesting it in any other
person.
      AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner's property or residence while not
under the control of the owner or other person by leash, cord, chain, or other
device of actual physical restraint. An exception to “at large” shall be for
instances where a dog, cat, or other animal would be under voice control while
engaged in hunting, tracking, or other verifiable training procedures.
      DOG, CAT, and ANIMAL. Shall include both the male and female of all forms
of dogs, cats, or other animals of any type or character.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, association, group, partnership, limited
liability partnership, limited liability company, corporation, or any other
entity owning, keeping, boarding, or harboring a dog, cat, or other animal
within the Town of Middlebury, Indiana.
      VICIOUS. With a propensity, inclination, tendering or attitude toward or
causing an unprovoked attack or assault on a human or another animal.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. This section, and the rules, regulations, restrictions,
and punishments herein provided, shall pertain only to activities arising from
or occurring within the incorporated area of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana.
   (C)   Control measures. An owner shall keep his or her dog, cat, or other
animal under control at all times. It shall be deemed that an owner does not
have control of his or her animal if the animal is permitted to:
      (1)   Run at large at any time within the incorporated area of the Town
of Middlebury, Indiana.
      (2)   Damage or defile the premises or property of another within the
incorporated area of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana.
      (3)   Bark or howl unduly, for periods exceeding 30 minutes, so as to
disturb the quiet of the neighborhood, or any person or persons; provided,
however, that this division (3) shall not apply to duly licensed and operated
kennels permitted by the Elkhart County Zoning Ordinance to be operated at the
location at issue, by specific zoning ruling, special use permit, or other
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (d)   Bite, or attempt to bite, attack, or belligerently pursue any
person or persons.
   (D)   Female dogs or cats. Any female dog or cat in heat shall be confined
in a secure enclosure by its owner in such manner that the female cannot come
in contact with a male animal of its own species, except for purposes of
planned breeding.
   (E)   Abandonment of animals. It shall be unlawful for any owner of any
animal to abandon the same within the incorporated area of the Town of
Middlebury, Indiana.
   (F)   Inoculation. All dogs or cats kept, harbored, or maintained by their
owners in the Town of Middlebury, Indiana, and over the age of six months,
shall have a current and valid rabies inoculation, and must wear a tag at all
times attached to a properly fitted collar or harness verifying the
inoculation.
   (G)   Vicious animals. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep,
maintain, or have in his possession or under his control within the
incorporated areas of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana, any dangerous dog, or
other animal with vicious or dangerous propensities toward humans or other
animals. This section does not prohibit trained law enforcement dogs nor
trained security dogs.
   (H)   Enforcement. Ordinance violations may be enforced under proceedings
brought pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5 et seq. in a manner similar to that for
infractions with complaint and summons described in I.C. 9-30-3-6 issued by the
Town of Middlebury Police Department or other police agency.
   (I)   Penalties. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $200, together
with the Court costs or other assessments imposed by a Court of competent
jurisdiction. Any person convicted of a subsequent violation or violations of
this section, within one year after a prior conviction, shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500, together with the court costs or
other assessments imposed by a court of competent jurisdiction. For purposes of
this section, each day's violation of any of the terms or provisions hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 429, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon a conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum
not less than $1 nor more than $10.
(Ord. 66, passed 5-3-1915)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERY
Section
Grace Lawn Cemetery
   
91.15   Sales price for cemetery lots
   
91.16   Permanent Maintenance Fund
   
91.17   Interments and disinterments
   
91.18   Payment of fees
   
91.19   Rules and regulations
   
91.20   Enforcement
   
91.21   Sexton
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GRACE LAWN CEMETERY
§ 91.15 SALES PRICE FOR CEMETERY LOTS.
   Beginning on and after the effective date of this subchapter, all remaining
and available cemetery burial spaces in Grace Lawn Cemetery shall be priced and
sold at $530 per burial space in 2018. Effective January 1, 2019 and January 1
of each year thereafter through January 1, 2025, the remaining and available
cemetery burial spaces in Grace Lawn Cemetery shall be priced and sold at the
prices indicated for the respective year as shown under “Burial Lots” on
Exhibit A attached to Ord. 668, which is hereby incorporated by reference. On
and after January 1, 2026, the remaining and available cemetery burial spaces
in Grace Lawn Cemetery shall be priced and sold at $650 per burial space until
amended by ordinance of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana.
(Ord. 668, passed 2-21-2022)
§ 91.16 PERMANENT MAINTENANCE FUND.
   On and after January 1, 2021 until December 31, 2023, the Clerk-Treasurer of
the Town of Middlebury, Indiana shall allocate and deposit to the permanent
maintenance fund or endowment fund for Grace Lawn Cemetery $35 out of the
purchase price collected for the sale of each cemetery burial space sold in
Grace Lawn Cemetery. On and after January 1, 2024, the Clerk-Treasurer of the
Town of Middlebury, Indiana shall allocate and deposit to the permanent
maintenance fund or endowment fund for Grace Lawn Cemetery $40 out of the
purchase price collected for the sale of each cemetery burial space sold in
Grace Lawn Cemetery.
(Ord. 668, passed 2-21-2022)
§ 91.17 INTERMENTS AND DISINTERMENTS.
   (A)   Interment fees. Beginning on and after the effective date of this
subchapter, the interment fees for burials at Grace Lawn Cemetery shall be as
reflected under “Interments” for the respective type and time on Exhibit A
attached to Ord. 668 for 2018. Beginning on and after January 1, 2019 and
January 1 of each year thereafter through January 1, 2025, the interment fees
for burials at Grace Lawn Cemetery shall be as reflected under “Interments” for
the respective type and time on Exhibit A attached to Ord. 668 for each
respective year. On and after January 1, 2026, the interment fees for burials
at Grace Lawn Cemetery shall be as reflected under “Interments” for the
respective type and time on Exhibit A attached to Ord. 668 for the fees
provided under 2026 until amended by ordinance of the Town of Middlebury,
Indiana.
   (B)   Disinterment fees. Beginning on and after the effective date of this
subchapter, the disinterment fees for previous burials at Grace Lawn Cemetery
shall be as reflected under “Disinterments” for the respective type and times
on Exhibit A attached to Ord. 668 for 2018. Beginning on and after January 1,
2019 and January 1 of each year thereafter through January 1, 2025, the
disinterment fees for previous burials at Grace Lawn Cemetery shall be as
reflected under “Disinterments” for the respective type and time on Exhibit A
attached to Ord. 668 for each respective year. On and after January 1, 2026,
the disinterment fees for previous burials at Grace Lawn Cemetery shall be as
reflected under “Disinterments” for the respective type and time on Exhibit A
attached to Ord. 668 for the fees provided under 2026 until amended by
ordinance of the Town of Middlebury, Indiana.
   (C)   Scheduling.
      (1)   Interments and disinterments must be scheduled with the
Superintendent of Public Works but shall not be available to be scheduled on
Sundays and the following holidays recognized by the Town of Middlebury:
         (a)   New Year's Day;
         (b)   Good Friday;
         (c)   Memorial Day;
         (d)   Independence Day (Fourth of July);
         (e)   Labor Day;
         (f)   Thanksgiving Day and the day following Thanksgiving; and
         (g)   Christmas Day.
      (2)   In the event that interments are scheduled with the Superintendent
of Public Works on a Sunday or holiday due to requirements for religious
reasons, disability reasons, and other legal accommodations, the fees
applicable will be those for the respective type for the respective year as
shown on Exhibit A attached to Ord. 668 for the pricing under “Evening after 3
p.m. and Saturdays after noon.
(Ord. 668, passed 2-21-2022)
§ 91.18 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   All fees due and payable under this subchapter shall be payable to the Town
of Middlebury and shall be delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer for the Town of
Middlebury.
(Ord. 668, passed 2-21-2022)
§ 91.19 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   On and after the effective date of this subchapter, the following rules and
regulations shall be applicable to Grace Lawn Cemetery:
   (A)   All funerals on reaching Grace Lawn Cemetery shall be under the
supervision of the Grace Lawn Cemetery Sexton.
   (B)   Once a funeral service is completed and the casket is placed in the
vault, the Grace Lawn Cemetery Sexton has the right to refuse permission to
anyone to open the casket or to touch the body without the consent of the legal
representative of the deceased or without a court order.
   (C)   All interments and disinterments are subject to the orders and laws of
the Town of Middlebury, County of Elkhart, and State of Indiana.
   (D)   When instructions from the cemetery lot owner regarding the location
of an interment space in a cemetery lot cannot be obtained, or are indefinite,
or for any other reason the space cannot be opened where specified, the Grace
Law Cemetery Sexton may, in the Sexton’s discretion, open the space in such
location as the Sexton deems best and proper so as to not to delay the funeral.
   (E)   Grace Lawn Cemetery and its management reserves and shall have the
right to correct any errors that are made either in making interments or
disinterments and removals.
   (F)   Grace Lawn Cemetery and its management shall exercise reasonable care
in making a disinterment and removal.
   (G)   All decorations or personal property left at a burial lot must be
placed within 16 inches of the base of the grave marker and within the boundary
lines of the burial lot property. Grace Lawn Cemetery and its management shall
have the authority to remove all floral designs, flowers, trees, shrubs,
plants, weeds, or herbage of any kind as well as all decorative landscaping
stones and other decorative items of any kind from Grace Lawn Cemetery as soon
as such have become unsightly, improperly placed, damaged, dangerous,
detrimental, or diseased, in the Sexton’s discretion. No glass shall be
allowed.
   (H)   Grace Lawn Cemetery shall not be liable for floral pieces, baskets,
frames to which they are attached, or other items of personal property left in
Grace Lawn Cemetery.
   (I)   No person whatsoever shall be allowed in Grace Lawn Cemetery after
sunset or before sunrise.
   (J)   No alcoholic beverages shall be allowed in Grace Lawn Cemetery.
   (K)   There shall be no public dumping in Grace Lawn Cemetery.
   (L)   Grace Lawn Cemetery shall be cleaned twice a year. Each cleaning will
occur during designated periods, each period being a full week in duration. The
biannual cleanings will occur during the second full week in April and the
second full week in November. All decorations and personal property (including,
but not limited to, flowers, plantings, and vases) shall be removed before the
applicable biannual cleaning period.
   (M)   All burials of any type or character, including cremations, shall
require the usage of a vault or vaults surrounding each casket or other legally
permissible container for the remains of the deceased person.
   (N)   All such burial vaults shall be made of cement, steel, or copper and
shall be of such weight and structural strength as to guard against collapse,
structural failure, cave-in, or other calamity that has heretofore occurred, or
could in the future occur, should considerable weight be placed thereon, by the
passage over such by motor vehicles, large groups of people, and/or maintenance
equipment.
   (O)   No mausoleums or other structures shall be placed or constructed
within Grace Lawn Cemetery without the prior written approval of the Town
Council.
   (P)   The planting of bushes, shrubs, and trees in Grace Lawn Cemetery is
prohibited. Notwithstanding this provision, the Grace Lawn Cemetery Sexton may,
in his or her sole discretion, plant bushes, shrubs, and trees in Grace Lawn
Cemetery.
   (Q)   All headstones shall be placed in the manner and at the location
required by the Grace Lawn Cemetery Sexton.
   (R)   Dogs and other pets may be brought into Grace Lawn Cemetery provided
that they are continuously restrained by a leash or other adequate device, not
exceeding six feet in length. No person owning or having control of any such
animal shall cause or permit the animal to run at large within the boundaries
of Grace Lawn Cemetery.
   (S)   The owner or person having control of any dog or other pet in Grace
Lawn cemetery shall immediately remove the animal’s excrement and properly
dispose of such material in a waste container. Notwithstanding these
provisions, a disabled person with a service dog is relieved of the requirement
to remove the service dog’s excrement to the extent such requirement is
impractical for a person with such disability. For purposes of these
provisions, a horse being utilized for transportation purposes is not
considered to be a pet.
(Ord. 668, passed 2-21-2022)
§ 91.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   Subchapter violations shall be enforced under proceedings brought pursuant
to I.C. 34-28-5-1 et seq. in a manner similar to that of infractions with
complaint and summons described in I.C. 9-30-3-6 issued by the Middlebury
Police Department or other police agency. Any person who is found to have
violated any provision of this subchapter shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $50 nor more than $200 for the first offense. Any person who is found
to have violated any provision of this subchapter shall be punished by a fine
of not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each second or subsequent offense.
Each day’s failure to comply with any provision of this subchapter may
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 668, passed 2-21-2022)
§ 91.21 SEXTON.
   (A)   The position of Sexton is hereby reconfirmed and re-established for
Grace Lawn Cemetery with such powers and duties as are established from time to
time by ordinance, resolution, or policy adopted by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Grace Lawn Cemetery Sexton shall hereinafter be an ex officio
position of the Superintendent of Public Works for the town. The Superintendent
of Public Works for the town as appointed by the Town Council shall serve as
the Grace Lawn Cemetery Sexton for so long but only as long as he or she holds
the position of Superintendent of Public Works for the town.
(Ord. 525, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who is found to have violated any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.21 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $100 for
the first offense. Any person who is found to have violated any provision of §§
91.15 through
91.21 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $500 for
each second or subsequent offense. Each day’s failure to comply with any
provision of §§
91.15 through
91.21 may constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 401, passed 7-16-2001)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Complaints
   
92.02   Remedies
   
92.03   State entities
§ 92.01 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for the proper referral of complaints
received pursuant to this chapter to the State Civil Rights Commission as set
forth below shall be vested in the President of the Town Council.
   (B)   The town hereby elects to refer all formal complaints of alleged fair
housing violations under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 3601 et seq., as amended; the Federal Housing and Community Development Act
of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended; the Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq.; and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et
seq., as amended; by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to applicable federal law and I.C.
22-9.5-6, and the President of the Town Council shall refer all such formal
complaints to the State Civil Rights Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as is provided for under applicable state and
federal law involving allegations of discrimination based upon race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   All departments of the town shall administer their departments,
programs and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the President of the Town Council to further such purposes.
   (D)   All departments of the town shall refer any complaints received
pursuant to this chapter to the President of the Town Council for referral to
the State Civil Rights Commission.
(Ord. 430A, passed 6-21-2004)
§ 92.02 REMEDIES.
   The President of the Town Council or the President’s designee shall provide
information on remedies available with respect to fair housing to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 430A, passed 6-21-2004)
§ 92.03 STATE ENTITIES.
   The town will work cooperatively with existing state entities (public or
private non-profit agencies) whose goal is to further fair housing when
appropriate opportunities exist for such involvement.
(Ord. 430A, passed 6-21-2004)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Fire protection with Middlebury Township
§ 93.01 FIRE PROTECTION WITH MIDDLEBURY TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   The town hereby elects to have Middlebury Township provide fire
protection services without a contract inside the corporate boundaries of the
town, commencing January 1, 1994.
   (B)   This section shall remain in effect for fire protection services in
calendar years after 1994 subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-8-13-3, and
provided that neither Middlebury Township nor the town opts out of these
participation arrangements for fire protection services through the adoption of
a resolution or ordinance, respectively, before July 1 of any year concerning
fire protection services for the subsequent year.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-7-1993)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Unsightly, unwholesome, unsafe or obnoxious materials
   
94.02   Outdoor burning
Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
94.15   Definition
   
94.16   Violation
   
94.17   Notice of violation
   
94.18   Removal by town
   
94.19   Notice of costs to landowner
   
94.20   Complaint and summons
   
94.21   Administration of subchapter
   
94.22   Appeals
Control of Noise
   
94.35   Definitions
   
94.36   Prohibited noises
   
94.37   Exemptions
   
94.38   Temporary permits
   
94.39   Enforcement, appeals
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 90
   Parks and recreation, see
Chapter 95
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 96
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 UNSIGHTLY, UNWHOLESOME, UNSAFE OR OBNOXIOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   Except for premises permitted for such use under the terms of the
applicable zoning ordinances for the town, it shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, business entity or corporation to accumulate or to allow the accumulation
upon any premises within the corporate limits of the town of garbage, ashes,
refuse, rubbish, manure, carcasses, junk, automobile parts and bodies, dirt,
debris, tires, junk appliances, bedding, junk furniture, junk machinery,
clippings from growth, old newspapers and all other kinds and types of organic
or inorganic materials generally classified as junk or refuse, provided,
however, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the accumulation and
storage of items of value which are stored in a secured building out of the
sight of the public and the occupiers of adjoining property, when such storage
does not constitute a health or fire hazard; and, provided further, that this
section shall not prevent the accumulation and storage in the manner provided
by existing town ordinance of items to be picked up by the company with the
sanitation contract with the town.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to notify the owner(s) and/or
occupying tenant(s) of any property found to have accumulations in violation of
division (A) above, directing both the removal and disposal of such unlawful
accumulations within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days from the date of
such notice. Such notice shall be in writing and delivered to the applicable
owner(s) and/or occupying tenant(s) responsible for the accumulation. If no
such person shall be available or admit to the ownership thereof, the Town
Marshal shall attach such written notice to the premises in a clearly visible
place, which attachment shall serve as effective notice to the owner(s) of the
real estate upon which the accumulation has occurred and to any occupying
tenant(s).
      (1)   In the event such accumulation has not been removed within the
period designated by the Marshal’s Office, the Street Department of the town is
hereby authorized and directed to enter upon said premises and remove and
dispose of such unlawful accumulations. Such disposal shall be in the form of
removal to sanitary landfill, burning, burying or such other disposal as the
Street Department shall determine. The cost of removal and the disposal of such
unlawful accumulations shall be the responsibility of the owner(s) of the real
estate upon which such was situate, and any occupying tenant(s). The
Superintendent of the Street Department shall certify the cost of such removal
and disposal to the Clerk of the town. Upon certification to the Clerk of such
expenses, the same shall be a lien upon the real estate at issue. The Clerk
shall in turn certify such costs and expenses to the Treasurer of the county
for collection in the same manner as real estate taxes are collected upon said
premises.
      (2)   In addition to placing such lien upon such real estate, the town
shall have the right through appropriate civil proceedings to collect the costs
and expenses of such removal and disposal from both the owner(s) of the real
estate upon which the accumulation occurred, and any occupying tenant(s)
thereof. The owner(s) and tenant(s) shall be responsible for all costs of
collection arising from such proceedings for the town, to include reasonable
attorney fees.
(Ord. 231, passed 6-2-1986) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 OUTDOOR BURNING.
   (A)   Application. All outdoor burning of any material is hereby banned and
declared unlawful within the municipal corporate limits of the town, except as
provided in division (B) below which is consistent with, but not inclusive of,
the exceptions under 326 I.A.C. § 4-1-3.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The following types of fires are permitted, subject to the
limitations contained in division (B)(2) below:
         (a)   Fires used for celebrating Twelfth Night ceremonies;
         (b)   Fires used for celebrating school pep rallies;
         (c)   Fires used for celebrating scout activities;
         (d)   Fires used for recreational and cooking purposes, i.e.,
campfires;
         (e)   Farm burning and burning by the Department of Natural Resources
as allowed by 326 I.A.C. § 4-1-3; and
         (f)   Burning with prior receipt of a variance application and
approval of the State Air Pollution Control Board or its designated agent as
allowed by 326 I.A.C. § 4-1-4.
      (2)   All permitted fires shall be subject to the following limitations:
         (a)   Only untreated wood products shall be burned unless otherwise
stated.
         (b)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely
extinguished.
         (c)   If a fire creates an air pollution problem, a nuisance, a health
hazard or a fire hazard, it shall be extinguished.
         (d)   All farm burning shall occur between the hours of 12:00 noon and
6:00 p.m. during which times the fire may be replenished, but only in such
manner that all of the burning material is consumed by 6:00 p.m.
         (e)   No burning shall be conducted unless the wind is at least five
mph and no more than 15 mph.
         (f)   No burning shall be conducted on property owned by another
party, including publicly owned streets, roads, and highways.
         (g)   No burning shall be conducted within 25 feet of a structure
owned by another party.
   (C)   Interpretation. The provisions of this section shall be interpreted so
as to be valid and enforceable and consistent with, but more restrictive than,
326 I.A.C. §§ 4-1-1 et seq.
   (D)   Sunset provision. 
      (1)   This section shall terminate upon the declaration by a court of
competent jurisdiction located in the county that the town has failed to
provide or arrange for a curbside leaf pick-up program in the Fall of any year
for the citizens of the town.
      (2)   This provision shall provide no defense to the enforcement of this
section unless a declaration from a court of competent jurisdiction in the
county has been obtained or issued prior to the date of a cited ordinance
violation.
(Ord. 313, passed 7-18-1994) Penalty, see §
94.99
WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 94.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION. Grass and other vegetation that is unkept
and unmowed over a period of time and left to grow to a height in excess of 18
inches. The term shall not include:
      (1)   Agricultural and vegetable crops such as corn, wheat, hay and
pasture;
      (2)   Designated wetlands, parklands and forest preserves; or
      (3)   River banks, creek banks and drainage ditches from the centerline
of the waterway to the area within ten feet of the top edge of each bank.
(Ord. 341, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.16 VIOLATION.
   Weeds and other rank vegetation are prohibited in the town and the existence
of which shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 341, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.17 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Upon receipt of information from the Town Police Department or the Town
Marshal that a violation of this subchapter exists, the Town Clerk shall issue
a five-day written notice to cut and remove the weeds and other rank vegetation
which shall be served by the Town Police Department upon the landowner, if he
or she is a resident of the town, or by registered mail addressed to his or her
last known address, if he or she is a nonresident of the town.
(Ord. 341, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.18 REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   If the landowner fails to cut and remove the weeds and other rank vegetation
within the five-day time prescribed by the written notice of violation, the
Town Public Works Department or a contractor of its hiring may enter the real
property to cut and remove the weeds and other rank vegetation end abate the
violation.
(Ord. 341, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.19 NOTICE OF COSTS TO LANDOWNER.
   Following any abatement of the violation by the Town Public Work’s
Department or its contractor, the Town Clerk shall prepare a certified
statement of the actual costs incurred by the town in the cutting and removal
of the weeds and other rank vegetation, including administrative costs and
removal costs. The certified statement shall be delivered to the landowner by
the Town Police Department if the landowner is a resident of the town, or by
registered mail addressed to his or her last known address, if he or she is a
nonresident of the town. If the landowner fails to pay the certified amount
within ten days after receiving the certified statement, the Town Clerk shall
certify to the County Auditor the amount of the original certified statement
plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the certification process.
The County Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax duplicate
for the property affected, and the total amount, including any accrued
interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall be
disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 341, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.20 COMPLAINT AND SUMMONS.
   If the landowner fails to cut and remove the weeds and other rank vegetation
within the five-day time prescribed by the written notice of violation, the
ordinance violation shall be enforced under proceedings brought pursuant to
I.C. 34-28-5 et seq. in a manner similar to that of infractions with complaint
and summons described in I.C. 9-30-3-6 issued by the Town Police Department.
(Ord. 341, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.21 ADMINISTRATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall be administered by the respective town officers,
employees and departments as directed and specified within the particular terms
and provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 341, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 94.22 APPEALS.
   The landowner may appeal a notice of violation or a certified statement of
costs issued under this subchapter to the Town Manager. The Town Manager shall
conduct an investigation of the appeal and make a written determination which
shall be forwarded to the landowner and to the Town Clerk. The decision of the
Town Manager on all appeals shall be final.
(Ord. 341, passed 7-1-1996)
CONTROL OF NOISE
§ 94.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. For
purposes of this subchapter, the singular shall include the plural and the
plural shall include the singular, unless the context requires otherwise.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability
partnership, limited liability company, association, corporation or other
entity.
   PREMISES. A tract of land including its buildings and structures.
   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any apparatus used for the amplification of
sounds from any radio, tape player, cassette player, compact disc player,
loudspeaker, sound amplifier, alarm or other sound-generating device, including
any apparatus for the amplification of the human voice.
   UNREASONABLE OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. Sound that is of a volume, frequency or
pattern that prevents, disrupts, injures or endangers the health, safety,
welfare, prosperity, comfort or repose of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivities within the corporate boundaries of the town, given the time of
day or environment in which the sound is made.
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon, or by which a person or property is, or may be,
transported or moved.
(Ord. 542, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 94.36 PROHIBITED NOISES.
   (A)   Unreasonable or excessive noise. Except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter, it shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to cause
or make any unreasonable or excessive noise or to allow any unreasonable or
excessive noise to be caused or made in or on any real property or personal
property within the town limits occupied or controlled by that person.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. In addition to the general noise prohibition in
division (A) above, the following acts within the town limits are violations of
this subchapter.
      (1)   Motor vehicle noises.
         (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle on a public street,
road, alley, highway, park or other public property in which the engine,
muffler, exhaust and/or other noise control equipment have been altered,
removed or maintained in such disrepair as to generate an unreasonable or
excessive noise.
         (b)   No person shall operate or use any motor vehicle in such a
manner to create unreasonable or excessive noise from squealing of tires or
grating, grinding, rattling or other noises from disrepair.
         (c)   No person operating a motor vehicle containing an engine brake
system shall apply the engine brakes.
         (d)   Except as used for warning purposes, no person shall use,
operate or sound any horn or other signaling device on any motor vehicle on a
public street, road, alley, highway, park or other public property for any
unreasonable period of time.
         (e)   No person shall play, use or operate or allow to be played, used
or operated in or on any motor vehicle any sound amplification system at a
volume that is louder than necessary for the convenient hearing of persons who
are inside the motor vehicle within which such device is played, used or
operated.
      (2)   Noises from premises.
         (a)   No person shall play, use or operate or allow to be played,
used, or operated on a premises any sound amplification system in such a manner
that the sound produced causes unreasonable or excessive noise heard beyond the
boundaries of the premises by a person with normal hearing.
         (b)   No person shall keep any animal, including but not limited to
dogs and birds, on a premises that causes unreasonable or excessive noise
clearly audible to a person from any place other than the premises from which
the animal is located.
      (3)   Machine noises.
         (a)   No person shall engage in the erection, excavation, demolition,
alteration or repair of any building or real estate causing unreasonable or
excessive noise between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   No person shall engage in the operation, alteration or repair of
any pile driver, hydraulic shovel or grader, pneumatic hammer, hoist, blower,
fan or other equipment causing unreasonable or excessive noise between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 542, passed 7-2-2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.37 EXEMPTIONS.
   Noises from the following uses and activities shall be exempt from the
prohibitions in §
94.36:
   (A)   Non-amplified crowd noises resulting from legal activities between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
   (B)   Any authorized emergency, fire, law enforcement or governmental
vehicle when responding to an emergency call, acting in time of emergency or in
connection with official business;
   (C)   Emergency signaling devices, such as severe weather sirens, safety
signals or other devices used as a warning of danger or an emergency.
   (D)   Emergency work including work necessary to restore property to a safe
condition following a public calamity or work required to protect persons or
property from an imminent exposure to danger or work by private or public
utilities when restoring utility service;
   (E)   Properly operating building alarms or vehicle alarms;
   (F)   Properly operated and licensed aircraft;
   (G)   Properly operated and licensed refuse collection vehicles operating
between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
   (H)   Any activity sponsored, permitted or authorized by the Town Council,
Town Park and Recreation Board, Middlebury Community School Board, or any other
governmental body having jurisdiction and control over the premises, including,
but not limited to, parades, festivals, fairs, sporting events, concerts,
firework displays or school bands;
   (I)   Legal consumer fireworks properly used during the times allowed by the
state;
   (J)   Any construction or domestic power equipment operated between 6:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m.; provided that such equipment is operated with the
manufacturer’s mufflers and noise reducing equipment in use and in proper
working condition;
   (K)   Church or worship center bells sounded in conjunction with a function
or service; and/or
   (L)   Any other noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration
permitted by the Town Council in accordance with §
94.38.
(Ord. 542, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 94.38 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   Applications for a permit for temporary relief from the requirements
in this subchapter may be made in writing to the Town Council. Any permit
granted by the Town Council under this section shall contain all conditions
upon which said permit has been granted and shall specify a reasonable time
that the permit shall be effective. The Town Council may prescribe any
reasonable conditions or requirements it deems necessary to minimize adverse
effects upon the community or the surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   The Town Council may grant a permit as applied for only if it is found
that:
      (1)   Additional time is reasonably necessary for the applicant to alter
or modify the activity or operation to comply with this subchapter; or
      (2)   The activity, operation or noise source will be of a temporary
duration, and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with this
subchapter; and
      (3)   No other reasonable alternative is available to the applicant; and
      (4)   The noise source as permitted will not violate recognized safety
standards.
(Ord. 542, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 94.39 ENFORCEMENT, APPEALS.
   (A)   This subchapter may be enforced by the authorized agents of the Town
Council or by a law enforcement agency.
   (B)   Any person charged with violating the provisions of this subchapter
may, in the discretion of the enforcement officer, be issued an official
warning. If an official warning is issued, it shall be considered as affording
the violator one opportunity to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
If any person fails to comply with the provisions of this subchapter, the
subchapter violation shall be enforced in accordance with I.C. 34-28-5-1 in a
manner similar to that of infractions with complaint and summons described in
I.C. 9-30-3-6 issued by the Town Police Department or other enforcement agency.
   (C)   Upon written notices of a violation by the same person for the same
offense three times within a consecutive 12-month period, when such noise is
created by the same noise emitter or the same type of noise emitter, the noise
creating device may be ordered by the enforcement officer to cease being used
or operated until it can be brought into compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 542, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
94.01(A) or failing to comply with any directive of the Town Marshal for the
removal and disposal of any unlawful accumulation, consistent with the
provisions of §
94.01(B), shall have committed an infraction, and upon finding of the
commission of such infraction, by a preponderance of the evidence, shall be
fined a sum not more than $500. Any such fine so imposed, or court costs
arising from such infraction proceedings, shall be in addition to the
imposition of any liens or other collection rights for the costs of removal and
disposal of the accumulation or accumulations as provided in §
94.01(B).
   (C)   (1)   The town may extinguish any fire that is in violation of §
94.02 and charge the party responsible $250 for each such extinguishment.
      (2)   Any person found to be in violation of §
94.02 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500,
plus costs for each separate violation.
      (3)   Any person found in violation of this section who rekindles a
prohibited fire extinguished by the town shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $500, plus costs for each such violation.
      (4)   Ordinance violations shall be enforced under proceedings brought
pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5 et seq. in a manner similar to that of infractions
with complaint and summons described in I.C. 9-30-3-6 issued by the Town Police
Department or other police agency.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
94.15 through
94.22 subjects the landowner to a civil fine up to $200. Each day a violation
of §§
94.15 through
94.22 continues after receipt of a notice of violation shall constitute a
separate offense. The civil fine shall be in addition to the cost collection
procedures set forth in I.C. 36-7-10.1-4
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
94.35 through
94.39 shall be subject to an initial civil penalty of $50. Each day such
violation continues or is committed shall constitute a separate offense. A
second violation in any 12-month period is subject to a civil penalty of $100.
Subsequent violations in any 12-month period are subject to a civil penalty of
$500. For the purposes of this section and §§
94.35 through
94.39, the VIOLATOR shall be the person or persons who created, caused to be
created, permitted to be created or otherwise generated any source of noise in
violation of §§
94.35 through
94.39; the person or persons in possession of a sound amplification system
played, used or operated in violation of §§
94.35 through
94.39; or the person in control of a motor vehicle operating in violation of §§
94.35 through
94.39.
(Ord. 231, passed 6-2-1986; Ord. 313, passed 7-18-1994; Ord. 341, passed 7-1-
1996; Ord. 542, passed 7-2-2012)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Possession or use of alcoholic beverages
   
95.02   Possession of firearms and weapons prohibited
   
95.03   Inflicting injury to wildlife and vegetation prohibited
   
95.04   Causing damage to signs, shelters and other structures prohibited
   
95.05   Swimming prohibited
   
95.06   Camping prohibited
   
95.07   Commercial sales, solicitations and commercial photography prohibited
   
95.08   Other prohibited activity
   
95.09   Speed limits and obstructions
   
95.10   Vehicle use restrictions
   
95.11   Vehicles; park closing
   
95.12   Pets on leashes
   
95.13   Fire restrictions
   
95.14   Construction and scope of code section
   
95.15   Enforcement
   
95.16   Pet waste
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 POSSESSION OR USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No person shall bring into any park, use, consume, sell, give away or
possess any alcoholic beverage in any park.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(b)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into any park, or have in his
or her possession any weapons, weapon accessories, missile-propelling devices,
fireworks or other explosive devices. This prohibition, however, shall not be
applicable to firearms, ammunition and firearm accessories as provided in I.C.
35-47-11.1 et seq., as amended.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(c)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982; Ord. 191B, passed 12-
19-2011) Penalty, see §
95.99 
§ 95.03 INFLICTING INJURY TO WILDLIFE AND VEGETATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall kill, wound, hunt, trap, shoot, throw rocks or
missiles at, chase, molest, remove or possess any feral animal, reptile, bird,
bird’s nest, squirrel’s nest or young or eggs of any reptile or bird, or
knowingly buy, receive, possess, sell or give away any animal, reptile, bird or
egg killed or taken within any park. The Park Board may grant written
permission for hunting or trapping certain species under restricted conditions
to prevent species overpopulation.
   (B)   No person shall harvest, cut, remove, break, disturb, set fire to or
otherwise damage any vegetation or other growing thing within any park. For the
purposes of this section, the word VEGETATION includes but is not limited to
plants, flowers, flowerbeds, shrubs, tree growth, branches, stems, fruit and
leaves. No person shall attach a rope, tether, cable or other contrivance to
any vegetation in any park; however, the ripe fruit and seeds of plants and
trees may be collected from the ground by any person.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(d)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 CAUSING DAMAGE TO SIGNS, SHELTERS AND OTHER STRUCTURES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deface, remove, set fire to, tamper with, damage or destroy
any artificial structure within any park or use any such structure for purposes
other than that for which it was intended. The term ARTIFICIAL STRUCTURE shall
include, but not be limited to, any drive, walk, bridge, wall, monument,
statue, sign, building, tower, parking lot, post gate and recreational
equipment. No person shall displace or remove any asphalt, curb, rock, stone,
gravel or sand in any park or make any excavation in any park.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(e)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 SWIMMING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall swim, wade, bathe or engage in scuba diving in any waters
within any park, except for wading in those waters to enter or disembark from a
boat or canoe.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(f)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall pitch or maintain any tent or other improvised shelter or
otherwise camp within any park without first obtaining the written consent of
the Park Board. That permit shall be conspicuously posted at the campsite.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(g)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 COMMERCIAL SALES, SOLICITATIONS AND COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall perform any of the following acts in any park:
   (A)   Disobey any order given by a police officer or park employee
designated by the Park Board to enforce this chapter; disobey or disregard the
notices, prohibitions, instructions, or directions on any park sign, including
the rules and regulations for playground areas, recreation centers, shelter
houses, museums and zoological or botanical buildings, if those rules are
posted on the grounds or in the buildings and structures connected with or used
for any purpose under the jurisdiction of the Park Board;
   (B)   Use threatening, abusive or insulting language as defined by state
law;
   (C)   Do, engage in or aid or abet any obscene or indecent act prohibited by
state law;
   (D)   Solicit alms, subscriptions or contributions for any purpose;
   (E)   Molest or annoy other persons or otherwise interfere with their lawful
use of park facilities;
   (F)   Interfere with, encumber, obstruct or render dangerous any part of a
park street;
   (G)   Climb or lie upon any wall, fence or shelter; or
   (H)   Engage in, instigate or encourage any contention or fight constituting
a violation of state law.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(h)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 OTHER PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   No person shall engage in any conduct or act dangerous to that person or to
others, including, but not limited to, hang gliding, repelling from towers and
any other technical climbing of trees, towers or structures.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(i)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 SPEED LIMITS AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle within any park at a speed of more
than 15 mph.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit any vehicle under his or her control
to obstruct traffic. No person shall stop any vehicle in any park, except at
those places specifically designated as parking areas.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(k)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 VEHICLE USE RESTRICTIONS.
   No vehicle shall be operated within any park except upon the roadway or
within any area expressly designated for vehicular traffic. Snowmobiles,
minibikes and persons on horseback are restricted to those areas specifically
designated for such uses.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(l)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 VEHICLES; PARK CLOSING.
   No person shall leave any vehicle within any park after the park has closed.
Any such vehicle may be removed by order of the Department without further
notice to the owner or operator. The owner of that vehicle shall be liable for
any towing and storage fees incurred.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(m)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 PETS ON LEASHES.
   Any animal brought into a park shall be under restraint on a leash of not
more than six feet in length. No person owning or controlling any animal shall
permit it to run at large within any park.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(n)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 FIRE RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall kindle, build, maintain or use any fire in any park, except
in fireplaces provided for the purpose or with written consent from the Park
Board to do so. Any fire shall be maintained under the continuous care and
direction of a competent person at least 18 years of age, from the time it is
kindled until it is effectively extinguished. No fire shall be kindled or built
within ten feet of any tree or building, or beneath the branches of any tree,
or in any underbrush. No person shall discard any burning match, cigar or
cigarette within any park.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(o)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 CONSTRUCTION AND SCOPE OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   Construction. The following rules shall apply in the interpretation of
this chapter.
      (1)   Any term in the singular shall include the plural.
      (2)   Any requirement of this chapter concerning any act shall include
the causing, procuring, aiding and abetting, whether directly or indirectly,
that act, and the permitting of any minor in the custody of an adult to perform
any act prohibited by this chapter.
      (3)   No provision of this chapter shall make unlawful any act of any
department employee or officer performed in the line of duty, or any act
performed by any person pursuant to the terms of any agreement with the Park
Board.
      (4)   Any act otherwise prohibited by this chapter, if not otherwise
prohibited by state law or town ordinance, shall be lawful if performed under,
by virtue of, and to the extent authorized by this chapter.
      (5)   This chapter shall be deemed to supplement all town, state and
federal laws and ordinances.
   (B)   Territorial scope. This chapter shall be effective within all parks in
the town and shall regulate their use by all persons.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(p)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982)
§ 95.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Police Department may issue notices of violation to any person
violating this chapter. The notices shall be prepared and issued in accordance
with I.C. 9-30-3-6 and 34-28-5 et seq., as amended.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(q)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982)
§ 95.16 PET WASTE.
   The owner or person having control of any dog or other pet in any park shall
immediately remove the animal’s excrement and properly dispose of such material
in a waste container. Notwithstanding these provisions, a disabled person with
a service dog is relieved of the requirement to remove the service dog’s
excrement to the extent such requirement is impractical for a person with such
disability. For purposes of these provisions, a horse being utilized for
transportation purposes is not considered to be a pet.
(Ord. 191A, passed 11-20-2006) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not
more than $1,000. Each day a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 36-10-3-3(r)) (Ord. 191, passed 5-3-1982)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
96.01   Street standards
   
96.02   Deviation from county standards
   
96.03   Guarantee and maintenance agreement
   
96.04   Acceptance of constructed streets into town highway system
   
96.05   Town projects
   
96.06   Utilities
§ 96.01 STREET STANDARDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §§
96.02,
96.03 and
96.04, there is hereby adopted the County Roads Guidelines for Design and
Public Improvement, which are hereby incorporated by reference, and made a part
of this chapter, the same also being known as the Street Standards by the
County Highway Department which were effective January 1, 2001. Together with
the additions or revisions set forth in §§
96.02,
96.03 and
96.04, such shall hereinafter be referred to as the “street standards” within
the incorporated boundaries of the town.
   (B)   Any and all references in the County Roads Guidelines and Standards
for Design and Public Improvement to the Board of Commissioners of the county,
the Board of County Commissioners, the County Commissioners, County Planning
Department or similar designation shall, for purposes of this chapter, be
altered to be and mean the Town Council.
      (1)   Any and all references in said County Roads Guidelines and
Standards for Design and Public Improvement to the County Highway Engineering
Department, County Highway Department, Manager of Transportation, County
Engineer or similar designation shall, for purposes of this chapter, be altered
to be and mean the Superintendent for the Department of Public Works for the
town.
      (2)   Any and all references in said County Roads Guidelines and
Standards for Design and Public Improvement to the county or similar
designation shall, for purposes of this chapter, be altered to be and mean the
town.
      (3)   Any and all references in said County Roads Guidelines and
Standards for Design and Public Improvement to county design shall, for
purposes of this chapter, be altered to be and mean town design. Any and all
references in said County Roads Guidelines and Standards for Design and Public
Improvement to county highway system, county roads or similar designation
shall, for purposes of this chapter, be altered to be and mean the town highway
system.
      (4)   Any and all amendments to the County Roads Guidelines and Standards
for Design and Public Improvement hereafter established shall be and shall be
considered an amendment to this chapter and specifically incorporated herein,
except to the extent inconsistent with the additions or revisions established
in §§
96.02,
96.03 and
96.04.
(Ord. 289A, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 96.02 DEVIATION FROM COUNTY STANDARDS.
   It is the basic goal and philosophy of the Town Council to follow the
Elkhart County Roads Guidelines and Standards for Design and Public
Improvement, as heretofore established, or as hereafter modified, by county
government; however, there are specific deviations from the currently existing
Elkhart County Roads Guidelines and Standards for Design and Public Improvement
desired by the Town Council, which form a part of, and by this chapter will be
established as part of, the “Street Standards” for the town, viz:
   (A)   Acceleration-deceleration lanes for residential subdivisions.
      (1)   Acceleration-deceleration lanes shall be required for planned
residential subdivisions with: 30 lots or more per road entrance by average; or
an average daily traffic (ADT) count on the respective entrance roads of
greater than 1,000.
      (2)   The deviation in this division (A) from the otherwise existing
county street standards, is to reduce the number of lots necessary, on average
to require acceleration-deceleration lanes, from 50 lots or more to 30 lots or
more.
   (B)   Use or non-use of cul-de-sacs in any type of subdivision. Cul-de-sac
arrangements shall be specifically reviewed for each subdivision of any type or
character to ensure that a cul-de-sac arrangement is not established which
would prohibit or interfere with future desirable development, beyond the area
of the then being platted subdivision area. The cul-de-sacs will be routinely
accepted only when there would appear to be little or no potential for future
development of comparable facilities or uses in areas outside the area being
platted, but adjacent thereto, or when adequate access to such outside areas
exists or appears readily attainable.
   (C)   Curb cuts. When a curb exists along a public street in the town and a
driveway cut or curb cut is proposed, the existing curb shall not be removed.
The driveway cut or curb cut must meet the specifications established by these
street standards with the curb being cut or ground down to the point, but no
lower than the point, allowed by these street standards.
   (D)   Flowable fill.
      (1)   All excavations made into, under, across or within two feet of the
finished edges of public roads, streets and alleys (paved or unpaved), gutters,
or curbs shall be backfilled with flowable fill, also known as “controlled
density fill.” All materials shall be in accordance with the current Indiana
Department of Transportation (INDOT) Standard Specifications.
      (2)   The flowable fill shall have a compressive strength from 50 psi
(pounds per square inch) to 150 psi. The flowable fill shall have a flow test
spread diameter greater than eight inches. The test for flow shall consist of
filling a three-inch diameter by six-inch high open ended cylinder placed on a
smooth, level, non-porous surface to the top with flowable fill. The cylinder
shall be pulled straight up within five seconds. The spread of the fill shall
be measured. The minimum spread shall be eight inches. This test may be
performed by the Superintendent of the Town Department of Public Works at the
site prior to placement of the flowable fill.
   (E)   Pavement removal.
      (1)   On concrete streets and alleys, two methods of concrete pavement
removal are acceptable:
         (a)   All cuts shall be sawed to one-third the depth of the pavement
with a concrete saw. A minimum saw cut depth to two inches is required. A cut
shall then be completed with a mechanical hammer equipped with a suitable
chisel, starting from the center of the cut; or
         (b)   All cuts shall be sawed the full depth of the pavement with a
concrete saw; and
         (c)   Where possible, all cuts shall be made at pavement joints.
      (2)   On asphalt streets and alleys, two methods of asphalt surface
removal are acceptable:
         (a)   All cuts shall be sawed to a minimum of one-third the depth of
the pavement and then completed with a mechanical hammer equipped with a
suitable chisel, starting from the center of the cut. A minimum saw cut depth
of two inches is required; or
         (b)   All cuts shall be made with a mechanical hammer equipped with a
suitable chisel, starting from the center of the cut. Before final repairs are
made, the cuts shall be “squared”. The edges of all cuts are to be straight.
   (F)   Work permits. The work permit forms and fees established in § VII of
the County Roads Guidelines and Standards for Design and Public Improvement
shall not be part of these street standards within the town. All work, however,
planned or proposed to take place within the public right-of-way under the
jurisdiction of the town shall be submitted in writing to the Superintendent of
the Town Department of Public Works for approval and compliance with the street
standards prior to commencement of any such work.
(Ord. 289A, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 96.03 GUARANTEE AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   In addition to the surety requirements of § VI of the Elkhart County Roads
Guidelines and Standards for Design and Public Improvement, the following
standards/obligations shall apply:
   (A)   The developer or developers involved with a dedicated residential
roadway or dedicated industrial roadway shall, in addition to the posting of
such security, enter into a guarantee agreement with the Town Council,
promising to complete the roadway or roadways in question within an agreed
period of time. Said agreement shall incorporate the surety amount or amounts
under the formula afore stated, and the developer, together with all additional
personal guarantors as shall be determined by the County Plan Commission, its
staff, the Town Council, or the Town Attorney, shall be and remain personally
responsible for the completion of said roadways, pursuant to said guarantee
above and beyond the amount of surety actually posted. The form of such
guarantee shall be adopted by the Town Council and the Town Attorney, and may
be revised from time to time hereafter without amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   The developer or developers involved with an accepted residential
roadway or accepted industrial roadway shall, as a condition to such
acceptance, and in addition to the maintenance bond, certificate of deposit or
letter of credit afore described, enter into a maintenance agreement, together
with all additional personal guarantors as shall be determined by the County
Plan Commission, its staff, the Town Council, or the Town Attorney, all of whom
shall be personally responsible for the full and complete maintenance of the
dedicated roadway for said three-year period of time from and after the date of
its acceptance by the Town Council, and irrespective of the amount of the
maintenance bond, certificate of deposit or letter of credit posted as surety
for such maintenance obligation. The form of such maintenance agreement shall
be adopted by the Town Council and the Town Attorney, and may be revised from
time to time hereafter without amendment of this chapter.
(Ord. 289A, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 96.04 ACCEPTANCE OF CONSTRUCTED STREETS INTO TOWN HIGHWAY SYSTEM.
   (A)   No street shall be accepted into the town roadway system until the
developer/builder thereof has complied with the terms and conditions of the
street standards, and any and all other legal standards arising from the county
zoning ordinance, county subdivision ordinance or other applicable law.
   (B)   At a minimum, to secure acceptance of a street into the town roadway
system, the developer/builder must have performed or completed the following:
      (1)   The right-of-way for the street at issue must have been properly
dedicated to the Town Council, with appropriate right-of-way width.
      (2)   If a subdivision is involved, the developer/builder must have
secured both primary and secondary approval of the plat for the subdivision,
which would include the roadway at issue.
      (3)   The final plat, as approved by the Plan Commission (to include, if
applicable, acceptance of the right-of-way for the roadway by the Town Council)
must be properly recorded in the County Recorder’s and Auditor’s offices.
      (4)   The naming of the roadway in question must have been properly
completed, and the necessary street signs ordered and installed.
      (5)   All inspections contemplated by the “street standards” must have
been undertaken and completed, and final approval of the roadway as completed
by the Town Superintendent of Public Works must be at hand.
      (6)   All drainage arrangements or systems contemplated by the street
standards and/or the plat of the subdivision and/or applicable state law shall
be completed by the developer/builder.
      (7)   The maintenance bond contemplated by these street standards must be
in appropriate form and on file with the Town Council. For municipal water and
sanitary sewer lines, appurtenances and associated utility facilities, the
amount of the maintenance bond shall be equal to 10% of the contract price for
such utility items to be dedicated to the town and shall be effective for a
period of three years from the date of acceptance.
      (8)   All pavement and paving required or contemplated by the street
standards and/or the plat of the subdivision in question, to include, where
applicable, acceleration/deceleration lanes or passing blisters, must be
completed, and approved as part of the final inspection by the Town
Superintendent of Public Works.
      (9)   A written request for the acceptance of the roadway in question
into the town roadway system by the Town Council must be filed with the Town
Council; as part of such written request, the builder/developer must certify,
under oath, that each of the requirements herein stated have been completed.
      (10)   A written certification executed by a professional engineer
licensed pursuant to I.C. 25-31 et seq. must be filed with the Town Council
certifying that construction review and inspection services have been performed
and that the roadway and project in question, including any drainage and
utilities, have been designed, engineered and constructed in accordance with
the requirements of these street standards.
(Ord. 289A, passed 10-1-2001; Ord. 289B, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 289C, passed
11-4-2002)
§ 96.05 TOWN PROJECTS.
   The street standards imposed by this chapter shall not be applicable to
projects undertaken by the town, nor shall the street standards imposed by this
chapter be applicable to roads and streets given or granted to the town, or
succeeded to by the town through inter-governmental cooperation, annexation or
methods other than private subdivision development.
(Ord. 289A, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 96.06 UTILITIES.
   If utilities are being installed or constructed as part of a roadway
development, such utilities shall be developed and installed in a fashion
consistent with the terms and conditions of the street standards herein set
forth.
(Ord. 289A, passed 10-1-2001)
CHAPTER 97: TREES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Creation and establishment of a Tree Board
   
97.03   Term of appointment
   
97.04   Compensation
   
97.05   Powers, duties and responsibilities of the Tree Board
   
97.06   Operation of the Tree Board
   
97.07   Planting of street trees and town trees
   
97.08   Removal and replacement of trees
   
97.09   Damaging or injuring trees
   
97.10   Tree topping or removal
   
97.11   Tree clearances
   
97.12   Dead, damaged or diseased tree removal on private property
   
97.13   Removal of stumps
   
97.14   Interference with official action
   
97.15   Arborist insurance
   
97.16   Enforcement
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. For
purposes of this chapter, the singular shall include the plural and the plural
shall include the singular, unless the context requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity.
   STREET TREES. Trees located within the right-of-way of all public streets,
avenues, alleys and ways within the town.
   TOP or TOPPING. The cutting back of tree limbs or stubs larger than three
inches in diameter within the tree’s crown.
   TOWN TREES. Trees, excluding street trees, in public parks in the town and
in all other areas owned by the town.
   TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011)
§ 97.02 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a Tree Board for the town, which
shall consist of at least three members, but no more than nine members. A
majority of the members shall be citizens and residents of the town, and all
members shall be appointed by the Town Council. It is recommended that at least
one member of the Town Park and Recreation Board be a member of the Tree Board.
The Tree Board shall function under the jurisdiction of the Town Council.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011)
§ 97.03 TERM OF APPOINTMENT.
   The terms of the persons appointed to the Tree Board shall be three years.
The members of the Tree Board in place upon the adoption of this chapter shall
continue to serve as members of the Tree Board and shall continue to serve the
staggered terms for which they were originally appointed. All members of the
Tree Board, however, shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council and may be
removed and/or replaced at any time by the Town Council. In the event a vacancy
shall occur during the term of any member, the successor shall be appointed by
the Town Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011)
§ 97.04 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011)
§ 97.05 POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE TREE BOARD.
   The Tree Board shall have the duty and responsibility and shall be empowered
to study, investigate, counsel and participate in the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal and disposition of street trees and town
trees. The Tree Board shall develop a written five-year plan addressing the
care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal and disposition of
street trees and town trees. Such plan shall be presented every five years to
the Town Council, and upon acceptance and approval by the Town Council, such
plan shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the town. The
Tree Board, when requested by the Town Council, shall consider, investigate,
make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or question coming
within the scope of its work. The Tree Board shall also have such other powers,
duties and responsibilities as are delegated to the Tree Board pursuant to the
terms and provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 OPERATION OF THE TREE BOARD.
   The Tree Board shall hold meetings, choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations, and keep a record of all of its proceedings consistent
with the requirements of state statutes governing the operations of public
agencies including the State Open Door Law, being I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq. and
the State Access to Public Records Law, being I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq. A majority
of the members of the Tree Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of any business.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07 PLANTING OF STREET TREES AND TOWN TREES.
   (A)   Size of trees. As a part of the comprehensive tree plan to be accepted
and approved by the Town Council, the Tree Board shall designate trees as
small, medium or large trees and shall determine the standard of measurement
used in classifying trees as small, medium or large trees.
   (B)   Species of trees. As a part of the comprehensive tree plan to be
accepted and approved by the Town Council, the Tree Board shall maintain a list
of official street tree species and town tree species for the town according to
the size designations of small, medium or large trees. Following the acceptance
and approval of the comprehensive tree plan, only the approved street tree
species and town tree species may be planted in their respective areas
according to the size designations unless the prior written approval of the
Tree Board is obtained. In the event that an area qualifies as both a street
tree area and a town tree area, then the tree species from either list may be
used.
   (C)   Spacing of street trees. The spacing of street trees shall be
determined by the Tree Board or the town in accordance with the size
designations determined under division (A) above and the tree species.
   (D)   Distance from curbs and sidewalks. The distance that street trees and
town trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks shall be
determined by the Tree Board or the town in accordance with the size
designations determined under division (A) above and the tree species.
   (E)   Distances from street corners and fire hydrants. Street trees and town
trees shall be planted no closer than 30 feet to any street corner, measured
from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines and no closer than
ten feet to any fire hydrant.
   (F)   Distances from utilities. Street trees and town trees, other than
those designated as small trees, may not be planted under or within ten lateral
feet of any overhead utility line, or over or within five lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility line.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08 REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF TREES.
   (A)   Subject to the authority of the state with respect to the right-of-way
of any state highway, the town shall have the authority to plant, prune,
maintain and remove street trees and town trees as may be determined to be
necessary for the public safety or for the preservation and enhancement of the
symmetry and beauty of the street tree and town tree areas.
   (B)   The town may remove or cause or order to be removed any street tree or
town tree or part thereof which is dead or diseased; which is affected by any
injurious fungus, insect or other pest; which is in an unsafe condition; or
which by reason of its nature or location is injurious to sewers, electric
power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements or utilities.
   (C)   If a street tree or part of a street tree is in need of removal, the
property owner shall be notified in writing by the Tree Board or the town of
the need for the removal. The property owner shall have 60 calendar days after
receipt of a written notice to have the street tree or part of the street tree
removed. In the event the owner fails to comply with the notice, the Tree Board
or the town shall have the authority to remove such street tree, or part of the
street tree, and request that the property owner reimburse the Tree Board or
the town for 50% of the cost for the street tree and stump removal.
   (D)   In certain locations, street trees or town trees have been planted in
close proximity to public sidewalks. Roots of such trees may have caused damage
to a public sidewalk, which repair may require cutting of these roots. In such
cases, the Tree Board shall be consulted in writing prior to cutting any roots.
In the event a public sidewalk cannot be repaired or replaced without the
removal of such a tree, the tree may be removed after written consultation with
the Tree Board. Once consulted, the Tree Board shall provide a written response
to the request within ten working days. If a written response is not received
within ten working days, then the roots of the street tree or town tree or the
entire tree may be removed.
   (E)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the town from removing any
street tree or part thereof without notice and charging half the cost thereof
to the owner in the event that it is determined that an emergency exists. The
Tree Board shall make such recommendations as it deems appropriate to assist
the town in implementing this section.
   (F)   Property owners may file a request with the Tree Board to receive a
street tree at a 50% cost share. In determining who may receive a street tree,
the Tree Board shall consider the following factors and award street trees
under this section in its discretion:
      (1)   Whether funding is available for this purpose;
      (2)   Whether the property owner had a street tree removed;
      (3)   Whether the tree can be planted in a location without negatively
affecting the nearby streets, alleys, sidewalks, utilities, building and other
trees; and
      (4)   The order in which requests were filed.
   (G)   If the town removes a street tree for road widening purposes or
utility construction, the town shall offer to plant a replacement street tree
at the request of the property owner and at the town’s expense.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09 DAMAGING OR INJURING TREES.
   Unless approved or authorized by the Tree Board or town, it shall be
unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Damage, cut, carve or injure any street tree or town tree;
   (B)   Attach any sign, wire or injurious material to any street tree or town
tree; however, wires or other supports used to stabilize trees shall not be
deemed to be unlawful; or
   (C)   Cause any gaseous, liquid or solid substance harmful to trees to come
in contact with roots, leaves, or bark of any street trees or town trees.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.10 TREE TOPPING OR REMOVAL.
   Unless approved or authorized by the Tree Board or town, it shall be
unlawful for any person to top or remove any street tree or town tree. Prior to
any topping or removal, the Tree Board or town shall review and investigate the
request and shall approve or deny the request.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.11 TREE CLEARANCES.
   (A)   The owner of any tree overhanging any right-of-way within the town
shall prune the branches so that such branches:
      (1)   Shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp;
      (2)   Shall not obstruct the view of any street intersection;
      (3)   Shall not obstruct the visibility of any traffic control device or
sign; and
      (4)   Allow for a clear space of eight feet above the surface of a public
sidewalk and 14 feet above the surface of a street.
   (B)   The owner shall perform the pruning at the owner’s expense within 30
calendar days after receiving a written notice from the town. In the event the
owner fails to comply with the notice, the town shall have the authority to
perform the pruning and to charge the cost of pruning to the owner.
   (C)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the town from performing the
pruning without notice and charging the cost thereof to the owner in the event
that it is determined that an emergency exists. The Tree Board shall make such
recommendations as it deems appropriate to assist the town in implementing this
section.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.12 DEAD, DAMAGED OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The town shall have the authority to remove or cause or order to be
removed any dead, damaged, or diseased trees on private property within the
town or any trees which are affected by any injurious fungus, insect or other
pest on private property within the town when it is determined that such trees
may constitute a hazard to person or property or when such trees may threaten
other trees within the town. The owner shall remove such trees or parts thereof
at the owner’s expense within 60 calendar days after the date of service of
notice from the town. In the event the owner fails to comply with the notice,
the town shall have the authority to remove such trees and to charge the cost
of removal to the owner.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the town from removing any
such tree or part thereof without notice and charging the cost thereof to the
owner in the event that it is determined that an emergency exists. The Tree
Board shall make such recommendations as it deems appropriate to assist the
town in implementing this section.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011)
§ 97.13 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of removed street trees and town trees shall be eliminated below
the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above
the surface of the ground.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011)
§ 97.14 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL ACTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with any
agents or employees of the town or of the Tree Board while engaging in and
about the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal and
disposition of any street trees, town trees or other trees as authorized in
this chapter.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.15 ARBORIST INSURANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or occupation
of the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal and
disposition of street trees or town trees or other trees as authorized by this
chapter on behalf of the town without first filing evidence of liability
insurance in the minimum amounts of $500,000 for injury and property damage
combined indemnifying the town or any person injured or damaged as the result
of the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described. For purposes of this
section, utility companies, town employees and volunteers of the Tree Board
shall not be considered to be engaged in the business or occupation of the
care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal, and disposition of
street trees or town trees or other trees as authorized by this chapter on
behalf of the town.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Town Council or its authorized agents.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $500 for each
separate offense. Each day that a violation exists with respect to any
provision of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 312B, passed 12-23-2011)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Alcoholic beverage permit
§ 110.01 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE PERMIT.
   The Board of Trustees of the town does hereby consent that liquor retailer’s
permits may be issued to applicants otherwise duly qualified by law in respect
to premises located within the town, all as provided by I.C. Title 7.1 and all
acts supplemental thereto and amendatory thereof.
(Ord. 143, passed 10-4-1971)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130: FIREARMS
Section
   
130.01   Prohibition on discharging firearms and cannons; detonation of
explosives
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Effective date
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PROHIBITION ON DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND CANNONS; DETONATION OF
EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person: to discharge any firearm or cannon; or
to detonate any explosives; or to assist any other person or persons to engage
in any such discharge or detonation; at, from, to or into, or directed at, any
place or location within the corporate boundaries of the town, unless such
person so discharging or detonating, or so assisting any other person or
persons, has been granted specific, written permission by the Town Council for
such discharge, detonation or assistance; provided, however, that such
prohibition and designation of unlawfulness shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer who shall so discharge a firearm in the
lawful performance of his or her duties;
   (B)   Any person who shall so discharge a firearm in a shooting gallery
licensed pursuant to regulations established or to be established by the Town
Council;
   (C)   Any person who shall so discharge a firearm in the protection of his
or her life or property when the surrounding facts and circumstances justify
such action; or
   (D)   Any person who shall discharge a firearm or cannon, or detonate any
explosives, or who shall assist any other person or persons to engage in such
discharging or detonation, during ceremonial occasions approved, in writing, by
the Town Council.
(Ord. 336, passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNON. A weapon or device capable of firing projectiles or missiles, using
a tube or other device through which the projectile or missile is fired using
any type of explosive charge as a propellent.
   EXPLOSIVE. A substance, to include a prepared chemical, gun powder or any
other material, that explodes or causes an explosion, and shall include, but
not be limited to, substances used to cause or precipitate the explosive charge
serving as a propellent for a firearm and/or cannon.
   FIREARMS. A weapon or device capable of firing projectiles or missiles, to
include a pistol, handgun, shotgun, rifle or any type of gun, using any type of
explosive charge as a propellent.
(Ord. 336, passed 3-4-1996)
§ 130.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on April 1, 1996, provided that the
publication required by law has been completed by such date; should such
publication not have been so completed, the effective date of this chapter
shall be such date after April 1, 1996 as such publication as required by law
shall have been completed.
(Ord. 336, passed 3-4-1996)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person engaging in any of the unlawful activities in §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not more than $1,000, and shall be responsible for all court costs or other
assessments pertaining to any prosecution.
(Ord. 336, passed 3-4-1996)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   HOUSE NUMBERING
      
151.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
      
153.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
CHAPTER 150: HOUSE NUMBERING
Section
   
150.01   House numbers
   
150.02   List of town streets
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   An official map showing the corporate boundaries of the town, and
indicating the names and showing the location of each street within said town,
has been prepared, and said map is hereby adopted as the official map of the
town. A copy of said map is hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Each street, not comprising a state or federal highway, shown on said
map, is hereby designated and declared to be a public street, under the
jurisdiction of the town, with the exception of Bontrager Drive, Coachmen
Drive, Corson Drive, Day Spring Court, Heritage Drive North, Joan Drive,
Southridge Parkway, Sunrise Lane and Yoder Drive, which are private roads, for
which formal names have been established for mailing, identification and
emergency vehicle purposes, and which in the case of Coachmen Drive and Corson
Drive have been so established at the specific request of Coachmen Industries,
Inc.
   (C)   The names of such streets as shown on said map, and the corporate
boundaries of the town, may from time to time be changed by the Town Council
pursuant to appropriate ordinance hereafter properly adopted; likewise,
additional streets within the town may hereafter be created, and named by the
Town Council pursuant to appropriate ordinance.
   (D)   For reference purposes, an alphabetical listing of the streets in the
town is placed in §
150.02. Said list includes the aforementioned private roadways.
   (E)   Should the formal name or names of one or more streets in the town be
changed, should additional streets be developed and named, or should the
corporate boundaries of the town change, any of which would cause the need for
a revision of the alphabetical listing of streets, or a change in the map, such
changes shall be implemented by employees and agents of the town, and a new map
and a new alphabetical listing of such streets, by names, shall be prepared,
and shall replace the map and street list which form a part of this chapter, it
being the express plan that the map of the town and the alphabetical listing of
the streets of the town shall be updated and kept current at all times, with
the current list and the current map thereby becoming the official map and list
of the town.
   (F)   A plan and system of numbering the lots, houses and buildings of the
town is hereby continued. All blocks and lots are to be numbered north and
south from Warren Street and east and west from State Road 13, beginning with
the number 100 for blocks and designating successive blocks by successive
hundreds. Each lot or established portion of a lot shall be assigned a number
consistent with the number of the block within which it is situate. The first
lot in block 100 shall be numbered 100 north, south, east and west
respectively. Numbers shall be assigned to each lot or part of lot on all
streets, avenues, roads or other public ways as follows: odd numbers shall be
assigned to the west side of north and south streets and even numbers to the
east side of north and south streets; and on east and west streets, odd numbers
are to be assigned to the south side and even numbers to the north side. In
case a street does not run through a block, the numbers of lots and that of a
block itself shall continue to the farther line of the street as the line would
be if the street ran through, and a new block shall begin at such line.
   (G)   Said plan and system shall be administered and carried out by the Town
Manager, and such other employees of said town as directed by said Town
Manager. In the event of any question or dispute as to the assignment of any
number to any particular building, house or lot, the party aggrieved by such
assignment may appeal the same to the Town Council, within 30 days after first
notification of such assignment, which appeal must be in writing, and state the
reasons for the question or dispute as to the assignment. Said appeal will be
considered at a meeting of the Town Council, with advance notice to the
aggrieved party being given as to the time, date and place of said meeting.
   (H)   By May 1, 1983, the number assigned to each lot, which contains a
permanent improvement thereon, which is used for residential or commercial
purposes, and which is not merely an accessory or peripheral building to a
larger structure on such lot, must be placed in a conspicuous place on the
front of said house or building, used for residential or commercial purposes,
which number shall consist of figures not less than two and one-half inches in
length, and which figures must be distinct and easily read.
      (1)   The legal titleholder of said lot, upon which is situate said
improvement, to which said numbers shall be affixed, shall be responsible for
fulfilling the requirements herein stated.
      (2)   From and after May 1, 1983, the town, through the Town Manager, and
such other employees of said town as the Town Manager may designate, shall have
the right to go upon all lots and parcels of real estate within the corporate
limits of said town, containing improvements upon which numbers as herein
stated were required to have been placed, and to place an appropriate number
upon such improvement not numbered as aforesaid, and recover the cost thereof
from the legal titleholder of said property, in a civil action, to be
instituted in a court of competent jurisdiction within this state.
   (I)   Within 30 days after the erection of a new home or building, for
residential or commercial purposes, which improvement shall not be an accessory
or peripheral building to an existing structure which already has the requisite
numbers placed thereon, the owner of said newly erected house or building shall
place a number thereon according to the provisions of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 36-7-4-405) (Ord. 199, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 189, passed 6-1-
1981; Ord. 416, passed 7-1-2002; Ord. 416, passed 7-1-2002) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Duties; recommendations on comprehensive plan and the like; subdivision
plats; development plans; street numbers and names, see I.C. 36-7-4-405
§ 150.02 LIST OF TOWN STREETS.
Alphabetical List of Street Names
Alphabetical List of Street Names
Antler Drive
Arbor Court
Bambi Court
Berry Street, East
Berry Street, West
Bluebird Lane
Bristol Avenue
Brittany Court
Brown Street, North
Brown Street, South
Caprice Lane
Cherry Street
Claire Lane
Crystal Heights Boulevard
Crystal Valley Drive
Dawn Estates Drive
Dipper Drive
Dogwood Lane
Eastern Star Drive
Eugene Drive
Fawn Drive
Fieldstone Lane
14th Avenue
Grand Street, South
Greenfield Drive
Hemsberd Street
Heritage Drive, South
Hidden Court
Hidden Meadow Lane
Highfield Court
Highland Drive
Highland Park Drive
Highland Pass Road
Horizon Drive
Industrial Parkway, East
Johnson Lane
Krider Drive
Lawrence Street, East
Lawrence Street, West
Main Street, North
Main Street, South
Mall Street, East
Mall Street, West
Mill Street, South
Normandy Way
Northern Lites Drive
Oakdale Drive
Oak Hill Court
Oakleaf Drive
Orpha Drive
Pleasant Street
Pointe Boulevard
Powell Drive
Railroad Street, North
Railroad Street, South
Redbud Lane
Rocky Lane
Rogers Street
Scott Street, North
Scott Street, South
Sharon Court
Shoemaker Drive
Skyview Drive
Somerset Drive
Southern Cross Drive
Spring Arbor Drive
Spring Crossing Drive
Spring Hill Court
Spring Street, East
Spring Street, West
Spring Valley Drive
State Street, North
State Street, South
Summer Hill Court
Sunburst Lane
Sunset Lane
Twin Oaks Drive US 20
Warren Street, East
Warren Street, West
Wayne Avenue
Winslow Street, East
Woodbridge Court
York Drive
Private Roads
Private Roads
Bontrager Drive
Coachmen Drive
Corson Drive
Day Spring Court
Heritage Drive, North
Joan Drive
Southridge Parkway
Sunrise Lane
Yoder Drive
 
(1985 Code, § 36-7-4-405)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter, or who shall
neglect to comply with any of the requirements hereof, shall be guilty of an
infraction, and shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $500.
(1985 Code, § 36-7-4-405)
CHAPTER 151: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Specifications for signs
   
151.03   Exempt signs
   
151.04   Portable signs
   
151.05   Maintenance of signs
   
151.06   Nonconforming signs
   
151.07   Variances
   
151.08   Permits, application, enforcement
   
151.09   Signage Review Board
   
151.10   Overlapping regulations
   
151.11   Recommendations
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. A building on real estate that immediately abuts and
borders on a public right-of-way and shall mean the boundary line or lines of
the building which face or lie along a public right-of-way.
   LOT FRONTAGE. A tract of real estate that immediately abuts and borders on a
public right-of-way and shall mean the boundary line or lines of the tract
which face or lie along a public right-of-way.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign designed or constructed to be easily moved from one
location to another, including signs mounted upon or designed to be mounted on
a trailer, wheeled carriage or other non-motorized mobile structure. A PORTABLE
SIGN which has its trailer and/or wheels removed shall still be considered a
portable sign.
   SIGN. Any device, display or structure readily visible from public property
or public right-of-way and used primarily for visual communication for the
purpose of, or having the result of, bringing the subject thereof to the
attention of a person, group of persons, or the public generally. A SIGN
includes, but is not limited to, any and all reading matter, letters, numerals,
pictorial representations, emblems, trademarks, flags, banners, streamers,
pennants, inscriptions and patterns whether affixed to a building, painted, or
otherwise depicted on a building, or separate from any building. The term SIGN
shall also include “window signs.”
   SURFACE AREA. Includes all of the display area of the sign. Frames and
structural members shall not be included in the computation of SURFACE AREA.
Both sides of a two-sided sign shall be counted as the display area of a sign.
   WINDOW SIGN.
      (1)   Any sign affixed to or in contact with an exterior window; or
      (2)   Any interior sign within 12 inches of an exterior window.
(Ord. 250A, passed 9-4-2001)
§ 151.02 SPECIFICATIONS FOR SIGNS.
   The following specifications for signs shall apply in the town.
   (A)   Projection.
      (1)   Parallel signs. All exterior signs attached to buildings and which
are parallel or substantially parallel to the wall of the building shall extend
no more than 18 inches horizontally from the wall of the building. No message
may be contained on any portion of the sign supports.
      (2)   Non-parallel signs. All exterior signs attached to buildings and
which are not parallel or substantially parallel to the wall of the building
shall project no more than 42 inches horizontally from the wall of the
building. Notwithstanding the foregoing limitation, exterior signs attached to
buildings and which are not parallel or substantially parallel to the wall of
the building shall not be subject to the 42-inch limitation so long as the sign
is 35 feet or more from the centerline of a public right-of-way. No message may
be contained on any portion of the sign supports of a non-parallel sign.
      (3)   All signs. Signs shall not project across property lines and shall
not project more than 36 inches into a public right-of-way. Such signs may be
subject to the control, regulation and jurisdiction of other authorities.
   (B)   Clearance. All exterior signs attached to the wall of a building must
provide a minimum of seven feet, six inches clearance above grade.
   (C)   Height. No sign shall extend above the height of the building to which
it is attached.
   (D)   Size limitation for signs attached to buildings. 
      (1)   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, signs may be attached to
buildings in accordance with the following limitations.
         (a)   For buildings having building frontages of 50 feet or less, the
surface area of all exterior signs attached to the building shall not exceed
two square feet per lineal foot of building frontage or 75 square feet,
whichever is less, for each frontage on a public right-of-way; provided,
however, that the surface area of all such signs shall not exceed, in the
aggregate, 75 square feet on any single building.
         (b)   For buildings having building frontages in excess of 50 feet,
the surface area of all exterior signs attached to the building shall not
exceed one and one-half square feet per lineal foot of building frontage or 125
square feet, whichever is less, for each frontage on a public right-of-way;
provided, however, that the surface area of all such signs shall not exceed, in
the aggregate, 125 square feet on any single building.
      (2)   The total amount of all signage available for a building shall be
allocated among the persons or firms occupying the building in proportion to
the total square footage of floor space that the person or firm occupies in
proportion to the total square footage of floor space in the entire building.
   (E)   Limitations for signs not attached to buildings. Subject to the
provisions of this chapter, signs which are not attached to a building shall be
permitted in addition to the signs permitted under division (D) above in
accordance with the following limitations.
      (1)   Signs not attached to a building shall be located a minimum of ten
feet from any building or other structure on the property.
      (2)   Signs not attached to a building shall be located a minimum of ten
feet from the curb line of all public streets, highways and alleys.
      (3)   Signs located within ten feet of the curb line of any intersection
shall be less than 30 inches high or shall provide a minimum of ten feet
clearance above grade. In determining clearance, the frames and structural
members of the sign shall not be considered.
      (4)   The surface area of signs which are not attached to a building
shall be limited in accordance with the following.
         (a)   For each lineal foot of lot frontage, a tract of real estate
shall have three-fourths of a square foot of permissible signage area.
         (b)   The maximum surface area of any sign which is not attached to a
building shall be 250 square feet.
         (c)   The total amount of signage available for a tract of real estate
shall be allocated among the persons or firms occupying the real estate in
accordance with the percentage of the real estate that the person or firm
occupies.
      (5)   Signs not attached to a building shall have a minimum area of
landscape treatment encircling the base at least equal in square footage to
one-half the surface area of the sign. All such signs existing and in place
upon the effective date of this chapter are exempt from this requirement.
   (F)   Window signs. Subject to the provisions of this chapter, permanent
window signs shall be permitted in accordance with the following limitations.
      (1)   No window sign shall occupy more than 35% of the total area of the
window in which the sign is located.
      (2)   Window signs shall consist of letters or numerals on the window
surface not more than six inches high in any color except “fluorescent” or
“neon” colors.
      (3)   The surface area of window signs shall not be included in the
overall computation of allowable signage as determined by the provisions of
divisions (D) and (E) above.
   (G)   Letters on signs. Except as provided otherwise in this chapter,
lettering and numerals on signs shall not exceed 18 inches in height, provided,
however, that where a sign is located more than 180 feet from the centerline of
all public highways, lettering and numerals may be but shall not exceed 24
inches in height.
   (H)   Moving parts. No sign or any part of a sign which is visible from
public property or a public right-of-way shall move or create the illusion of
movement in any manner. This provision shall not be interpreted to include hour
and minute hands of a clock.
   (I)   Illumination. Any illuminated sign or lighting devices visible from
public property or a public right-of-way shall employ only lights of constant
intensity, shall not be illuminated by or contain flashing, intermittent,
rotating or moving lights, or lights creating the illusion of movement.
   (J)   Intensity of light. No sign shall be illuminated with such intensity
as to adversely affect the use and enjoyment of nearby public or private
property.
   (K)   Awnings. Awnings in compliance with the Building Code and zoning
ordinance in force for the town shall be permitted. If the awning is used as a
sign, only the surface area of the awning shall be counted as part of the total
surface area allowed for the building under division (D) above.
   (L)   Painted wall signs. Signs painted or applied directly on the surface
of an exterior wall of a building are prohibited.
(Ord. 250A, passed 9-4-2001)
§ 151.03 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   (A)   Municipal, county and state-owned signs. Traffic control signals and
signs, street signs, flags, emblems, memorials, plaques and other signs
designed and intended for the safety and convenience of the public may be
located as authorized by the appropriate municipal, county and state officials
with the jurisdiction therefor.
   (B)   Directional and information signs. Signs not exceeding six square feet
in surface area displayed strictly for the direction, safety or convenience of
the public, including signs which identify restrooms, parking area entrances or
exits, freight entrances, addresses or similar signs are exempt from the
provisions of §
151.02(D) and (E).
   (C)   Street numbers. Street numbers are exempt from the provisions of §
151.02(D), but shall not exceed six inches in height.
(Ord. 250A, passed 9-4-2001)
§ 151.04 PORTABLE SIGNS.
   (A)   No person, group, firm, company, corporation or other organization
shall erect or display a portable sign in the town for more than 28 days in any
calendar year; nor shall any person, firm, group, company, corporation or other
organization erect or display more than one portable sign in the town at any
one time. Furthermore, no person, group, firm, company, corporation or other
organization shall erect or display a portable sign in the town for more than
14 consecutive days nor exceed four usages per calendar year and a minimum of
30 days shall be required between each usage.
   (B)   Any person, firm, group, company, corporation or other organization
desiring to erect or display a portable sign in the town shall file a written
notice with the town at least ten days prior to the date or dates when the sign
shall be erected or displayed and stating the date or dates when the sign shall
be erected or displayed and the name, address and telephone number of the
person, group, firm, company, corporation or other organization that is
responsible for the portable sign.
   (C)   The notice shall be signed by an authorized person for the person,
group, firm, company, corporation or other organization that is responsible for
the portable sign. If a portable sign is not removed on the date indicated on
the notice, the town may remove the portable sign at the expense of the person,
group, firm, company, corporation or other organization that is responsible for
the portable sign and impound the portable sign at a charge of $10 per day.
(Ord. 250A, passed 9-4-2001) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Construction and installation. All signs shall be constructed and
installed according to the provisions of state and local building and
electrical codes.
   (B)   Maintenance. All signs shall be maintained in a neat and attractive
condition by their owners. Frames and structural supports shall be kept treated
or painted to prevent rust, deterioration, rotting and corrosion.
   (C)   Dangerous or unlawful signs. When any sign becomes insecure, in danger
of falling, or otherwise unsafe, or if any sign shall be unlawfully installed,
erected, or maintained in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
the owner thereof or person or firm maintaining the sign shall upon written
notice by the town make such sign conform to the provisions of this chapter or
remove it within ten working days.
   (D)   Misleading signs. Any sign which advertises a business, product or
service which is no longer being conducted, sold or provided from the premises
where the sign is located or which refers to an event or occasion that has
already occurred shall be taken down and removed by the owner, agent or person
having beneficial use of the property upon which the sign is located within 20
working days after written notice from the town.
   (E)   Legal remedies. Upon the failure of any person or firm to comply with
the terms and provisions of a written notice served upon them under the
provisions of divisions (C) and (D) above, the town shall be entitled to file
an action in the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county in order to obtain an
order directing the person or firm to comply with the requirements of this
chapter or authorizing the town to remove or cause the offending sign to
conform to the requirements of this chapter and assessing the costs and
expenses thereof to the responsible person or firm.
(Ord. 250A, passed 9-4-2001) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign existing and in place in the town as of December 14, 1988 and
which does not comply with the requirements of this chapter shall constitute a
“nonconforming sign.”
   (B)   The use of a nonconforming sign may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise legal and conforms to the following requirements.
      (1)   No nonconforming sign shall be enlarged, expanded or extended so as
to occupy a larger or different area than that area occupied as of December 14,
1988.
      (2)   No nonconforming sign shall be moved in whole or in part to any
location other than that location occupied as of December 14, 1988.
      (3)   If a nonconforming sign is damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion,
wind storm, traffic accident or other casualty to an extent of 75% or more of
the replacement cost at the time of such damage or destruction, the damage or
destruction shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the sign which shall
thereafter be required to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   If a nonconforming sign is removed for a continuous period of 30
days, the nonconforming status of the sign shall be eliminated and the sign
shall thereafter be required to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   If a nonconforming sign is replaced, such replacement shall
eliminate its nonconforming status and the sign shall thereafter be required to
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   If a nonconforming sign ceases to be used for any reason for a
continuous period of six months, the nonconforming status of the sign shall be
eliminated and the sign shall thereafter be required to comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
      (7)   Nonconforming signs which are portable must be removed or made to
conform to the provisions of this chapter on or before December 15, 1989.
      (8)   Normal day-to-day maintenance and repair of nonconforming signs
shall be permitted.
(Ord. 250A, passed 9-4-2001) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Requirements. The Town Council may grant variances under this chapter;
provided, the Town Council makes a finding of fact based upon the standards
hereinafter prescribed that the application of the strict letter of this
chapter will create practical difficulties or particular hardships for the
owners or long-term lessees of buildings and/or land under the jurisdiction of
this chapter.
   (B)   Application for variance.
      (1)   Applications for variances may be filed by any person having an
ownership or leasehold interest in any real estate in the area under the
jurisdiction of this chapter. The application for variance shall be filed with
the Town Clerk who shall forward a copy of the application to the Town Council
and the Signage Review Board. The application shall be submitted a minimum of
21 days prior to the regularly scheduled Town Council meeting in order to be
included on the agenda. The applicant shall submit such number of copies of the
application as the Town Council may prescribe from time to time.
      (2)   The application shall be in such form and contain such information
as the Town Council may prescribe from time to time, but shall in all instances
contain the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant and the owner of the
property in question;
         (b)   A legal description and street address of the property in
question;
         (c)   A concise written statement explaining the nature of the
variance being sought and justification for the variance in accordance with the
standards set forth in divisions (E) and (F) below; and
         (d)   Photographs and/or scale drawings as may be appropriate.
   (C)   Notice and hearing. The Town Council shall hold a public hearing
following proper public notice for each variance request as part of its regular
public meeting schedule. Following the hearing, the Town Council shall transmit
to the Town Clerk and Signage Review Board a written report giving its
findings.
   (D)   Variance standards for existing signs. With respect to existing signs,
a variance from the amortization regulations of this chapter shall not be
granted unless evidence is presented and the Town Council finds that:
      (1)   Because of the age, cost or unique characteristics of the sign(s)
in question, the strict enforcement of the amortization regulations as set
forth in this chapter would impose an undue hardship on the applicant;
      (2)   The proposed variance would not merely serve as a convenience to
the applicant but will alleviate some demonstrable hardship not generally
applicable to other properties in the area under the jurisdiction of this
chapter;
      (3)   The waiver of amortization requirements or an extension in the
period of amortization would not have a detrimental affect on the town; and
      (4)   The proposed variance is in harmony with the spirit and intent of
this chapter.
   (E)   Variance standards for new signs. With respect to the erection of new
signs, a variance from the regulations set forth in this chapter shall not be
granted unless evidence is presented and the Town Council finds that:
      (1)   The proposed variance will not be materially detrimental to the
town or other nearby property;
      (2)   The property in question will suffer some demonstrable and
irreversible hardship if made to conform to the strict letter of this chapter;
      (3)   The alleged hardship has not been created by anyone presently
having a proprietary or leasehold interest in the property; and
      (4)   The proposed variance is in harmony with the spirit and intent of
this chapter.
   (F)   Action by Town Council. After receiving the report of the Signage
Review Board and following the hearing as required above, the Town Council may
grant the proposed variance, may deny the proposed variance, or may refer the
proposed variance back to the Signage Review Board for further consideration.
   (G)   Fees. An application for variance shall be accompanied by a fee in the
amount of $10. All fees shall be paid in cash or by check payable to the town.
   (H)   Administrative remedies. It is specifically provided that the failure
to apply for and seek a variance from the requirements of this chapter under
this section shall work as a bar to challenging this chapter or its
requirements in court.
(Ord. 250A, passed 9-4-2001)
§ 151.08 PERMITS, APPLICATION, ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Permit requirements. No person, group, firm, company, corporation or
other organization shall erect, construct or display a non-portable sign in the
town, not displayed on September 4, 2001, without a permit from the town.
Furthermore, no person, group, firm, company, corporation or other organization
shall replace an existing non-portable sign in the town without a permit.
Obtaining a construction, building, or other permit from any federal, state or
local governmental agency shall not obviate or eliminate the necessity of
obtaining a sign permit required by this section.
   (B)   Application procedure. 
      (1)   The application for a sign permit shall be filed with the Town
Clerk who shall forward the application to the Town Manager.
      (2)   The application shall contain such information as the Town Council
and the Town Manager may prescribe from time to time, but shall in all
instances contain the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant and the owner of the
property in question;
         (b)   A legal description and street address of the property in
question;
         (c)   A concise written statement indicating how the sign complies
with this chapter; and
         (d)   Photographs and/or scale drawings as may be appropriate.
   (C)   Fees. An application for a permit under this section shall be
accompanied by a fee in the amount of $25.
   (D)   No notice or hearing. No notice or hearing is required for the
issuance by the Town Manager of a sign permit issued in compliance with this
section. The Town Manager may grant sign permits provided he or she determines
that the application demonstrates that the sign will be in compliance with this
chapter. The Town Manager may refer the application to the Signage Review Board
for its review and recommendation. Following review of the application and any
investigation or referral deemed appropriate, the Town Manager shall transmit
to the Town Clerk a written report giving his or her determination and
approving the permit application as submitted, denying the permit application
as submitted, or approving the permit application subject to certain stated
terms, conditions, provisions or changes.
   (E)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person, group, firm, company, corporation, or other
organization adversely affected by a decision of the Town Manager with respect
to a sign permit application may present an appeal to the Town Council. The
appeal shall be filed with the Town Clerk who shall forward a copy of the
appeal to the Town Council and to the Town Manager. The appeal shall be
submitted a minimum of 21 days prior to the regularly scheduled Town Council
meeting in order to be included on the agenda. The appellant shall submit such
number of copies of the appeal as the Town Council may prescribe from time to
time.
      (2)   The appeal shall be in such form and contain such information as
the Town Council may prescribe from time to time, but shall in all instances
contain the following:
         (a)   A copy of the sign permit application;
         (b)   A copy of the written report of the Town Manager; and
         (c)   A concise written statement explaining the nature of the appeal,
identifying the issues involved, and presenting the position of the appellant
and any alleged error made by the Town Manager.
      (3)   The Town Council shall hold a public hearing following proper
public notice for each appeal as part of its regular public meeting schedule.
Following the hearing, the Town Council shall transmit to the Town Clerk and
the Town Manager a written report giving its findings and affirming, modifying
or reversing the decision of the Town Manager.
   (F)   Administrative remedies. It is specifically provided that the failure
to apply for and seek a permit under this section as well as the failure to
appeal any adverse decision of the Town Manager to the Town Council under this
section shall work as a bar in challenging this chapter or its requirements in
court.
(Ord. 250A, passed 9-4-2001) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 SIGNAGE REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Signage Review Board, which
shall consist of three members, including one business representative, one town
representative and one citizen representative.
   (B)   All members of the Signage Review Board shall be appointed by the Town
Council and shall serve at its pleasure.
   (C)   The Signage Review Board shall meet, as necessary, to review sign
permit referrals and recommend action to the Town Manager and to review
variance requests and recommend action to the Town Council.
(Ord. 250B, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 151.10 OVERLAPPING REGULATIONS.
   The county zoning ordinance, including the provisions thereof pertaining to
signs, remains valid and in full force and effect in the town. Where the
requirements imposed by any provision of this chapter differ from the
requirements imposed by the county zoning ordinance or any other local
ordinance, law, resolution, rule or regulation, the most restrictive provision
shall apply.
(Ord. 250A, passed 9-4-2001)
§ 151.11 RECOMMENDATIONS.
   In order to provide guidance and assistance to the area residents and
businesses of the town in protecting and promoting the spirit and quality of
the town, the following suggestions concerning appropriate signage are offered
by the concerned citizens who worked on the town sign ordinance and which
suggestions are endorsed by the Town Council.
   (A)   Externally illuminated signs are preferred because the character of
the illumination produces less brightness and glare. This lighting will
compliment rather than compete with decorative street-lighting fixtures.
   (B)   While internally illuminated signs are permitted, it is recommended
that light letters or figures on a dark background be used in order to reduce
overall brightness and glare.
   (C)   It is recommended that lettering on signs be “serif” style for any
letter greater than six inches in height.
(Ord. 250A, passed 9-4-2001)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be enforced under proceedings brought
pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5 et seq., as amended, in a manner similar to that of
infractions with complaint and summons described in I.C. 9-30-3-6, as amended,
issued by the Town Police Department or other police agency. Any person who is
found to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $25, nor more than $500 for each separate offense. Each
day’s failure to comply with any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 250A, passed 9-4-2001)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Zoning adoption
   
152.02   Subdivision adoption
   
152.03   Planning and zoning law
   
152.04   County Building Department and building standards
   
152.05   Unsafe building law
   
152.06   Administrative expenses
§ 152.01 ZONING ADOPTION.
   The County Zoning Ordinance, as established by Ord. 186, passed 9-2-1980,
and as currently in effect and as from time to time hereafter amended, is
adopted and incorporated by reference into this chapter. The ordinance is
printed by the County Planning and Development Department, and two copies of
the ordinance are on file in the Auditor's Office for public inspection. Copies
of the ordinance are available for distribution from the Auditor's Office and
from the County Planning and Development Department. In addition, a copy of the
Zoning Ordinance is also available on the County Planning and Development
Department's website.
§ 152.02 SUBDIVISION ADOPTION.
   The Elkhart County Subdivision Ordinance, as established by Ord. 186, passed
9-2-1980, and as currently in effect and as from time to time hereafter
amended, is adopted and incorporated by reference into this chapter. Two copies
of the ordinance are available for inspection in the County offices during
regular business hours, and is also available on the County's website as part
of the County Code of Ordinances.
§ 152.03 PLANNING AND ZONING LAW.
   (A)   The Elkhart County Plan Commission is hereby designated as the
municipal plan commission for the town. Further, the Elkhart County Board of
Zoning Appeals has jurisdiction within the corporate boundaries of the town.
The Elkhart County Plan Commission and the Elkhart County Board of Zoning
Appeals as so designated have for the town all the powers and duties granted,
under the Advisory Planning Law, to a municipal plan commission and board of
zoning appeals.
   (B)   All planning and zoning ordinances and all policies and procedures
heretofore adopted, and now in force and effect by the Elkhart County Plan
Commission, the Elkhart County Board of Zoning Appeals, and the Board of
Commissioners of Elkhart County as the legislative body of Elkhart County, to
include a Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance, and Subdivision Control
Ordinance, be; and the same hereby are, approved by the town and made binding
upon all real estate situated therein.
   (C)   All planning and zoning ordinances and all policies and procedures
hereafter adopted, and hereafter placed in force and effect by the Elkhart
County Plan Commission, the Elkhart County Board of Zoning Appeals, and the
Board of Commissioners of Elkhart County as the legislative body of Elkhart
County, to include changes, revisions, and amendments of the Comprehensive
Plan, Zoning Ordinance, and Subdivision Control Ordinance, be; and the same
hereby will be, binding upon the town and all real estate situated therein,
upon approval thereof by the town.
   (D)   The legislative function of dividing the town into zoning districts
and approving zoning maps, as provided in the Elkhart County Zoning Ordinance,
shall be retained and carried out by the Town Council consistent with the
rules, regulations, and ordinances otherwise adopted by or for the Elkhart
County Plan Commission and the Elkhart County Board of Zoning Appeals; further,
that all such zoning districts and zoning maps heretofore adopted by the Town
Council of the town be, and the same are, hereby continued in full force and
effect until amended or repealed by action of the Town Council taken under
authority of the advisory local planning and zoning laws of the state.
   (E)   The Town Council reserves the right, ability, and authority to
establish and promulgate rules, regulations, and standards pertaining to
streets, curbs, water, sewer, drainage, and other utility and municipal
services for real estate situated within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 676, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 152.04 COUNTY BUILDING DEPARTMENT AND BUILDING STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby designates the Elkhart County Building
Department to administer and enforce the Elkhart County Building Code Ordinance
adopted and established by Elkhart County under I.C. 36-7-8-3 pursuant to I.C.
36-7-8-7.
   (B)   The Elkhart County Building Code Ordinance and all related
requirements, standards, permit provisions, and all policies and procedures
heretofore or hereafter adopted, and now or hereafter placed in force and
effect by the Board of Commissioners of Elkhart County as the legislative body
of Elkhart County, be, and the same hereby are, made binding upon the town and
all real estate situated therein.
(Ord. 676, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 152.05 UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9 and I.C. 36-1-3-9, the Town Council hereby
designates, by ordinance, the Elkhart County Building Department and the
Elkhart County Building Commissioner to administer and enforce the Elkhart
County Unsafe Building Ordinance on behalf of the town.
   (B)   The Elkhart County Unsafe Building Ordinance, including all related
standards, requirements, and authorities, and all policies and procedures
heretofore or hereafter adopted and now or hereafter placed in force and effect
by the Board of Commissioners of Elkhart County as the legislative body of
Elkhart County, be, and the same hereby are, made binding upon the town and all
real estate situated therein.
   (C)   With respect to demolition requirements and other costs necessary to
bring an unsafe building and premises into compliance, the Town Council
understands and acknowledges that the Elkhart County Building Department may
require the town to advance the necessary funds. The Town Council understands
that the Elkhart County Building Department will attempt to reclaim any funds
advanced and return them to the town.
(Ord. 676, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 152.06 ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.
   (A)   All application, permit, or other fees and expenses received and all
fines, penalties, costs, and other recoupments collected by Elkhart County in
the administration of planning and zoning, subdividing of real estate, and
building control jurisdiction within the town may be retained by Elkhart
County. The town understands that Elkhart County does not otherwise charge a
fee to the town for the performance of these services.
   (B)   The town, however, understands that if the town requests additional
services from Elkhart County, in the administration of planning and zoning,
subdividing of real estate, and building control jurisdiction, such additional
services may be subject to further agreement, terms, provisions, and fees.
(Ord. 676, passed 11-7-2022)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
   
153.01   Development in flood hazard areas
§ 153.01 DEVELOPMENT IN FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The town does hereby indicate its intention to maintain participation
in the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   The town does hereby adopt by reference the provisions of Ord. PC11-08
as adopted and as hereafter amended, and does hereby re-confirm and re-
designate the County Plan Commission as its municipal planning and zoning
agency.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a copy of this section,
together with Ord. PC11-08 as adopted and as hereafter amended in the manner
town ordinances are kept and available for public inspection.
   (D)   This section does not create any responsibility or liability on the
part of the town for any flood damage that results from reliance on this
section, Ord. PC11-08 as adopted and as hereafter amended, or any
administrative decisions made under them.
   (E)   Ordinances 201, 278 and 279 of the town be and they hereby are
repealed and superseded by this section; provided, however, such repeal shall
not apply to the extent that vested rights exist under applicable law or
enforcement is pending or initiated for existing violations under those
ordinances, in which cases Ordinances 201, 278 and 279 shall continue to apply
but only as necessary for those limited circumstances.
(Ord. 532, passed 7-18-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   REAL ESTATE
      
IV.   REZONING
      
V.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
200      6-6-1983    Cable television franchise granted to Integrated Systems,
                     Inc.
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
582          8-1-2016    Annexes real estate, a portion of Jayco, Inc and
                         nearby real estate
583          8-15-2016   Annexes real estate, First United Methodist Church
597          5-15-2017   Annexes real estate, Forest River Manufacturing, LLC
                         on the west side of County Road 37
604          2-19-2018   Annexes a portion of Jayco, Inc. and Soccer Fields
                         Real Estate
Res. 2018-04 10-1-2018   Written fiscal plan and policy for annexation of a
                         portion of Winnebago of Indiana, LLC Real Estate
Res. 2018-05 10-1-2018   Written fiscal plan and policy for annexation of a
                         portion of Patrick Industries, Inc. Real Estate
613          10-1-2018   Annexing a portion of Winnebago of Indiana, LLC Real
                         Estate
614          10-1-2018   Annexing a portion of Patrick Industries, Inc. Real
                         Estate
657          6-7-2021    Annexing a portion of Jayco, Inc., Villas of River
                         Park, and Crisp Real Estate
674          10-3-2022   Annexing a portion of Jayco, Inc.
                         Written fiscal plan and policy for annexation of
Res. 2023-05 6-5-2023    property located in proximity to the Villas of River
                         Park Neighborhood
                         Written fiscal plan and policy for annexation of
Res. 2023-06 6-5-2023    property located in proximity to the Westlake Estates
                         Subdivision
                        
 
TABLE III: REAL ESTATE
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
142          4-5-1971    Sale of real estate property known as Old Town Hall
157          12-1-1975   Sale of real estate, being a part of the southwest
                         quarter of Section 10, Township 37 North, Range 7 East
Res. 2017-06 12-18-2017  Sale of real estate, parcel no. 20-08-10-376-017.000-
                         035 (Spring Rear)
                        
 
TABLE IV: REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
134      10-5-1970   Rezoning from A-1 to B-3
135      12-7-1970   Rezoning from R-2 to R-4
147      3-6-1972    Rezoning from R-1 to M-1
148      3-6-1972    Rezoning from A-1 to M-2
153      1-7-1974    Rezoning from R-2 to B-1
154      8-5-1974    Planned unit development
156      10-6-1975   Rezoning from A-1 to B-3
158      3-1-1976    Rezoning from B-2 to B-3
162      7-5-1976    Rezoning from R-1 to B-3
163      10-4-1976   Rezoning from M-2 to R-1
164      11-1-1976   Rezoning from R-2 to R-4
165      11-1-1976   Rezoning from R-1 to R-4
166      2-28-1977   Rezoning from A-1 and M-2 to R-4
167      5-2-1977    Rezoning from R-1 to R-2
171      10-3-1977   Rezoning from R-1 to R-4
172      10-3-1977   Planned unit development
173      10-3-1977   Rezoning from M-1 and B-2 to R-4
175      11-7-1977   Rezoning from A-1 to R-4
177      6-13-1978   Rezoning from M-2 to R-1
178      12-4-1978   Rezoning from R-4 to B-3
179      12-4-1978   Rezoning from R-1 to R-2
184      8-4-1980    Rezoning from M-1 to R-1
185      9-2-1980    Rezoning from M-1 to R-2
190      4-5-1982    Rezoning from A-1 to B-1
203      11-7-1983   Rezoning from A-1 to M-1
209      2-6-1984    Rezoning from R-1 to R-2
210      3-5-1984    Rezoning from A-1 to R-3
213      5-7-1984    Rezoning from R-1 to R-3
585      10-3-2016   Rezoning 140 US 20 from A-1 Agricultural District to B-
                     2 General Business District
586      10-3-2016   Rezoning 523 Wayne Street from A-1 Agricultural District
                     to R-4 Residential Mixed Use District
605      2-5-2018    Rezoning a parcel of land being a part of Section 10,
                     Township 37 North, Range 7 East from M-1 to R-1
607      5-21-2018   Rezoning two parcels of land from R-2 to B-2
450A     8-20-2018   Planned unit development
617      11-19-2018  Rezoning Lot 12 in Block 30 from R-2 to B-2
M622     5-6-2019    Planned unit development
M625     10-7-2019   Planned unit development
MD431c   2-3-2020    Planned unit development
MD629    3-2-2020    Rezoning the area of real estate from M-2 to M-1
MD638    10-19-2020  Rezoning from PUD B-3 to DPUD B-3
MD639    10-19-2020  Rezoning from A-1 to GPUD B-3
MD645    2-15-2021   Rezoning from M-2 to B-3
M428b    3-1-2021    Rezoning from GPUD R-3/R-4 to DPUD R-4
M-428c   11-1-2021   Amending the Greencroft Middlebury planned unit
                     development
MD679    1-16-2023   Rezoning from R-1 to B-1
MD683    3-20-2023   Rezoning from B-1 to B-2
MD690    8-7-2023    Rezoning from M-1 and R-2 to B-1
                    
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        9-19-1938   Part of Perry Street
-        10-4-1938   Part of Perry Street
180      1-2-1979    An alley between South Brown Street and South Main Street
196-1    11-1-1982   Detroit Street
204      11-7-1983   Beaver Dam Estates
211      3-5-1984    An alley east of Scott Street, between Berry and Lawrence
                     Streets
212      3-5-1984    Furnace Street, running east and west, between Brown and
                     Evans Streets
610      9-4-2018    Winslow Street lying east of Mill Street, and an alley
                     lying east of Mill Street
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1985 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section       Code Section
1-1-1-5            10.04
1-1-1-7            10.12
1-1-1-8            10.06
1-1-4-5            10.05
1-1-5-1            10.11
1-1-6-1            10.08
5-2-1-9            31.01
5-13               33.01
5-13-9             33.01
5-13-9-5           33.01
5-13-9-5.7         33.01
5-13-9-6           33.01
5-13-9.5           33.01
5-14-1.5-1 et seq. 97.06
5-14-3-1 et seq.   97.06
5-14-3-6           33.35
5-22 et seq.       Ch. 33,
                   33.03
5-22-8 et seq.     33.03
5-22-11            33.03
6-1.1-41           33.26
Title 7.1          110.01
8-1.5-3-9.1        51.01
8-1.5-3-9.1        51.01
8-23-30            33.25
                   70.20,
                   70.35,
                   70.99,
Title 9            Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                   Ch. 73, Sch. II,
                   Ch. 73, Sch. IV,
                   Ch. 73, Sch. V ,
                   Ch. 74, Sch. I
9-13-2-6           71.01
9-13-2-127         33.37
9-21 et seq.       70.03
                   71.01,
9-21-2             Ch. 73, Sch. IV,
                   Ch. 73, Sch. V
9-21-3             71.01
                   71.01,
9-21-4             Ch. 73, Sch. IV,
                   Ch. 73, Sch. V
9-21-4 et seq.     70.04
9-21-5             Ch. 73, Sch. IV
9-21-16 et seq.    Ch. 74, Sch. I
9-30-2-1           72.06
9-30-3-1 et seq.   72.06
                   70.99,
                   Ch. 73, Sch. II,
                   91.20,
9-30-3-6           94.01,
                   94.39,
                   94.99,
                   95.15,
                   151.99
10-14-3-17         33.27
22-3-2             31.01
22-9.5-1 et seq.   92.01
22-9.5-6           92.01
25-31 et seq.      50.04,
                   96.04
                   70.99,
                   Ch. 73, Sch. II,
                   94.02,
34-28-5 et seq.    94.20,
                   94.99,
                   95.15,
                   151.99
34-28-5-1          Ch. 73,
                   94.39
34-28-5-1(e)       70.99
34-28-5-1 et seq.  91.20
35-47-11.1 et seq. 95.02
36-1-3-1           30.04
36-1-3-1 et seq.   30.04
36-1-3-8           70.04
36-1-3-8(a)(10)    10.99
36-1-3-9           152.05
36-1-4-11          70.04
36-1-6-3           70.04
36-5-2 et seq.     70.04
36-5-2             30.01
36-5-4-12          33.06
36-7-4-405         150.01
36-7-4-601         31.03
36-7-8-3           152.04
36-7-8-7           152.04
36-7-9             152.05
36-7-10.1-4        94.99
36-7-12-1 et seq.  31.05
36-8-3-20          31.01
36-8-13-3          34.01,
                   93.01
36-9-15.5          33.26
36-9-23            52.07,
                   52.99
36-9-23-30(c)      52.99
36-10-3            31.06
36-10-3-18         31.06
36-10-3-20         31.06
                   
 
REFERENCES TO 1985 CODE
1985 Code Section New Code Section
1985 Code Section New Code Section
1-1-10-1          11.01
9-4-1-28(a)       71.01
9-4-1-28(b)       71.02
9-4-1-28(c)       71.03
9-4-1-28(d)       71.04
9-4-1-28(e)       71.05
9-4-1-28(f)       71.06
9-4-1-28(h)       71.07
9-4-1-28(i)       71.99
                  70.03,
9-4-1-34          Ch. 73, Sch. III,
                  Ch. 73, Sch. V
9-4-1-58          Ch. 73, Sch. IV
22-9-1-12.1       32.02
36-1-3-1          30.04
36-5-2-9          11.03
                  150.01,
36-7-4-405        150.02,
                  150.99
36-9-16-3         33.22
36-10-3-3(b)      95.01
36-10-3-3(c)      95.02
36-10-3-3(d)      95.03
36-10-3-3(e)      95.04
36-10-3-3(f)      95.05
36-10-3-3(g)      95.06
36-10-3-3(h)      95.07
36-10-3-3(i)      95.08
36-10-3-3(k)      95.09
36-10-3-3(l)      95.10
36-10-3-3(m)      95.11
36-10-3-3(n)      95.12
36-10-3-3(o)      95.13
36-10-3-3(p)      95.14
36-10-3-3(q)      95.15
36-10-3-3(r)      95.99
App. I            11.02
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2016-06  8-15-2016   33.01
2016-09  12-19-2016  31.07
2017-06  12-18-2017  TSO, Table III
2018-04  10-1-2018   TSO, Table II
2018-05  10-1-2018   TSO, Table II
2019-03  6-3-2019    33.01
2023-04  3-20-2023   32.01,
                     33.07
2023-05  6-5-2023    TSO, Table II
2023-06  6-5-2023    TSO, Table II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V
–      - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I
183      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V
183      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V
183      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V
183      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V
183      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V
183      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V
183      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V
183      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V
232      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. IV
233      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. IV
234      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. IV
235      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V
235      - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V
66       5-3-1915    90.01,
                     90.99
–      9-19-1938   TSO, Table V
–      10-4-1938   TSO, Table V
                     71.01 -
106      12-2-1957   71.06,
                     71.99
116      4-1-1963    71.07,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. III
118      8- -1965    33.22
134      10-5-1970   TSO, Table IV
135      12-7-1970   TSO, Table IV
142      4-5-1971    TSO, Table III
143      10-4-1971   110.01
147      3-6-1972    TSO, Table IV
148      3-6-1972    TSO, Table IV
151      5-7-1973    31.02
153      1-7-1974    TSO, Table IV
154      8-5-1974    TSO, Table IV
156      10-6-1975   TSO, Table IV
157      12-1-1975   TSO, Table III
158      3-1-1976    TSO, Table IV
162      7-5-1976    TSO, Table IV
163      10-4-1976   TSO, Table IV
164      11-1-1976   TSO, Table IV
165      11-1-1976   TSO, Table IV
166      2-28-1977   TSO, Table IV
167      5-2-1977    TSO, Table IV
170      10-3-1977   31.05
171      10-3-1977   TSO, Table IV
172      10-3-1977   TSO, Table IV
173      10-3-1977   TSO, Table IV
175      11-7-1977   TSO, Table IV
176      1-9-1978    31.06
177      6-13-1978   TSO, Table IV
178      12-4-1978   TSO, Table IV
179      12-4-1978   TSO, Table IV
180      1-2-1979    TSO, Table V
183      5-5-1980    Ch. 73, Sch. V
183      5-5-1980    70.03
184      8-4-1980    TSO, Table IV
185      9-2-1980    TSO, Table IV
186      9-2-1980    31.03
189      6-1-1981    150.01
190      4-5-1982    TSO, Table IV
                     95.01 -
191      5-3-1982    95.16,
                     95.99
192      7-6-1982    30.02
196-1    11-1-1982   TSO, Table V
199      3-7-1983    150.01
200      6-6-1983    TSO, Table I
–      7-11-1983   Ch. 73, Sch. IV
202      7-11-1983   Ch. 73, Sch. IV
203      11-7-1983   TSO, Table IV
204      11-7-1983   TSO, Table V
209      2-6-1984    TSO, Table IV
210      3-5-1984    TSO, Table IV
211      3-5-1984    TSO, Table V
212      3-5-1984    TSO, Table V
213      5-7-1984    TSO, Table IV
231      6-2-1986    94.01,
                     94.99
236      8-4-1986    30.03
–      12-7-1987   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
–      5-2-1988    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
243      6-6-1988    34.02
247      8-1-1988    33.37
256      6-27-1989   51.01
261      1-20-1990   Ch. 73, Sch. V
262      1-22-1990   Ch. 73, Sch. V
263      1-22-1990   Ch. 74, Sch. I
292      12-7-1992   33.24
299      6-7-1993    93.01
300      9-7-1993    33.05
301      9-7-1993    33.07
302      9-7-1993    33.06
313      7-18-1994   94.02,
                     94.99
318      10-3-1994   33.23
319      10-3-1994   33.21
330A     8-7-1995    31.06
                     130.01 -
336      3-4-1996    130.03,
                     130.99
                     72.01 -
337      3-10-1996   72.06,
                     72.99
340      6-17-1996   34.01
                     94.15 -
341      7-1-1996    94.22,
                     94.99
345      12-16-1996  51.15 -
                     51.19
345A     4-7-1997    51.15
371      7-6-1998    33.03
183      7-20-1998   Ch. 73, Sch. IV
372      7-20-1998   33.04
379      4-5-1999    Ch. 73, Sch. I
380      6-7-1999    70.04,
                     70.99
                     70.20 -
                     70.23,
382      8-2-1999    70.37,
                     70.38,
                     70.99
                     52.25 -
383      12-6-1999   52.38,
                     52.99
387      5-15-2000   Ch. 73, Sch. II
318-A    7-17-2000   33.23
391      11-6-2000   Ch. 73, Sch. II
–      11-20-2000  Ch. 73, Sch. V
398      4-2-2001    31.04
401      7-16-2001   91.99
                     151.01 -
                     151.08,
250A     9-4-2001    151.10,
                     151.11,
                     151.99
404      9-4-2001    31.01
289A     10-1-2001   96.01 -
                     96.06
250B     11-5-2001   151.09
                     150.01,
416      7-1-2002    150.02,
                     150.99
289B     10-21-2002  96.04
289C     11-4-2002   96.04
419      11-4-2002   30.01
429      6-16-2003   90.02
–      5-17-2004   Ch. 73, Sch. V
–      5-17-2004   Ch. 74, Sch. I
430A     6-21-2004   92.01 -
                     92.03
–      8-16-2004   Ch. 73, Sch. V
345D     3-21-2005   51.18
                     70.35,
473      8-15-2005   70.36,
                     70.99
–      11-7-2005   Ch. 73, Sch. IV
–      11-28-2005  Ch. 73, Sch. IV
–      4-3-2006    Ch. 74, Sch. I
–      6-5-2006    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
191A     11-20-2006  95.16
493      3-5-2007    33.36
330B     4-2-2007    31.06
–      7-2-2007    70.01,
                     70.99
                     50.01 -
497      9-17-2007   50.12,
                     50.99
503      4-21-2008   51.02,
                     51.99
–      8-4-2008    Ch. 73, Sch. V
–      10-5-2009   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
525      2-1-2010    91.21
532      7-18-2011   153.01
535      11-7-2011   33.20
191B     12-19-2011  95.02
383A     12-19-2011  52.30
                     97.01 -
312B     12-23-2011  97.16,
                     97.99
404-A    4-16-2012   31.01
–      7-2-2012    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
                     94.35 -
542      7-2-2012    94.39,
                     94.99
553      3-18-2013   52.01 -
                     52.11
–      10-21-2013  Ch. 74, Sch. I
345F     2-3-2014    51.15 -
                     51.19
558      2-3-2014    32.01
–      8-4-2014    Ch. 73, Sch. V
–      8-14-2014   Ch. 73, Sch. IV
567      11-3-2014   72.20 -
                     72.26
558-A    2-2-2015    32.01
569      4-6-2015    33.35
582      8-1-2016    TSO, Table II
583      8-15-2016   TSO, Table II
584      8-15-2016   33.02
585      10-3-2016   TSO, Table IV
586      10-3-2016   TSO, Table IV
                     51.15 -
345-G    11-7-2016   51.17,
                     51.19
590      12-19-2016  33.06
592      1-16-2017   33.08
593      1-16-2017   33.03
594      2-6-2017    33.25
380-A    3-6-2017    70.04
                     52.25 -
596      3-6-2017    52.38,
                     52.99
597      5-15-2017   TSO, Table II
605      2-5-2018    TSO, Table IV
604      2-19-2018   TSO, Table II
345-D-1  5-7-2018    51.18
365-C-1  5-15-2018   52.03
607      5-21-2018   TSO, Table IV
608      6-18-2018   Adopting Ordinance
450A     8-20-2018   TSO, Table IV
610      9-4-2018    TSO, Table V
613      10-1-2018   TSO, Table II
614      10-1-2018   TSO, Table II
617      11-19-2018  TSO, Table IV
558-B    3-18-2019   32.01
M622     5-6-2019    TSO, Table IV
592-A    7-15-2019   33.08
608-A  7-15-2019   Adopting Ordinance
318-B    8-19-2019   33.23
372-A    8-19-2019   33.21
M625     10-7-2019   TSO, Table IV
627      12-16-2019  33.01
MD431c   2-3-2020    TSO, Table IV
MD629    3-2-2020    TSO, Table IV
630      3-16-2020   33.26
635      8-3-2020    33.27
MD638    10-19-2020  TSO, Table IV
MD639    10-19-2020  TSO, Table IV
558-C    12-21-2020  32.01
584-B    2-1-2021    33.02
MD645    2-15-2021   TSO, Table IV
M428b    3-1-2021    TSO, Table IV
647      3-15-2021   52.01 -
                     52.12
                     51.15 -
649      3-15-2021   51.17,
                     51.19
657      6-7-2021    TSO, Table II
658      8-16-2021   Ch. 74, Sch. I
658-A    10-18-2021  Ch. 74, Sch. I
M-428c   11-1-2021   SO, Table II
658-B    12-20-2021  Ch. 74, Sch. I
661      8-2-2021    32.01
666      12-20-2021  30.05
667      12-20-2021  32.01
668      2-21-2022   91.15 -
                     91.20
                     51.15 -
671      7-5-2022    51.17,
                     51.19
674      10-3-2022   TSO, Table II
676      11-7-2022   152.03 -
                     152.06
658-C    12-31-2022  Ch. 74, Sch. I
MD679    1-16-2023   TSO, Table IV
MD683    3-20-2023   TSO, Table IV
684      3-20-2023   32.01
686      6-5-2023    52.99
MD690    8-7-2023    TSO, Table IV
                    
 
