TOWN OF MILAN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 12092024-1, passed 12-9-2024;
Resolution 12-12-2022, passed 12-12-2022; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2024 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
OF
MILAN, INDIANA
TOWN COUNCIL
PRESIDENT       Deborah Shumate
VICE PRESIDENT  Andrew Olman
MEMBER          Mark Marsee
                
TOWN OFFICIALS
TOWN MANAGER    Doug Price
TOWN ATTORNEY   Lynn Fledderman
TOWN MARSHAL    Phillip Wilson
CLERK-TREASURER Melissa Teer
                
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the "Milan Town Code",
for which designation "code of ordinances", "codified ordinances" or "code" may
be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK/TREASURER. The Clerk/Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Ripley County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. Milan, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the town exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GOVERNMENTAL BRANCHES
         
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENTAL BRANCHES
Section
   
30.01   Branches of government; organization
   
30.02   Elections
§ 30.01 BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Generally. The government of the town shall consist of two branches,
those being:
      (1)   Legislative and executive branch (I.C. 36-5-2-2); and
      (2)   Fiscal branch (I.C. 36-5-6-2).
   (B)   Legislative and executive branch.
      (1)   The legislative body of the town is the Town Council (I.C. 36-5-2-
2). The Council shall have exclusive authority to adopt ordinances and
appropriate tax monies received by the town, and to perform other necessary and
desirable legislative functions.
      (2)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall be the Clerk of the Council and shall
perform the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-5-2-8 and others as the Council may
direct.
      (3)   The regular meeting date and time for the Town Council shall be at
7:00 p.m., on the second Tuesday of each month.
      (4)   The President of the Town Council is the town executive pursuant to
I.C. 36-5-2-2, and meetings shall be conducted pursuant to the applicable
statutes and in accordance with the following rules which are hereby adopted as
a part of this section.
         (a)   Order of business. The order of business to be followed at a
meeting of the Town Council shall be as follows:
            1.   Calling to order;
            2.   Roll call by Clerk/Treasurer;
            3.   Reading of minutes and approval;
            4.   Petitions or comments of citizens;
            5.   Reports from committees, boards and commissions;
            6.   Unfinished business, including ordinances or resolutions
already introduced;
            7.   New business, including introduction of ordinances and
resolutions;
            8.   Miscellaneous business, including any matters not already
considered; and
            9.   Adjournment.
         (b)   Public participation in public Council meetings.
            1.    The Town Council values information from the public
concerning the business of the town. Meetings of the Town Council are open to
the public except meetings permitted by law as executive sessions. Permission
to speak at any Council meeting is subject to the discretion of the presiding
officer.
            2.   Any person or group wishing to speak should make their intent
known to the Clerk/Treasurer no later than three business days prior to the
meeting and include:
               A.   Name and address;
               B.    Person or organization, if any; and
               C.   Topic of concern.
            3.   Such requests shall be made to the presiding officer, if he or
she deemed it appropriate.
            4.   A maximum of five minutes may be allowed for each presentation
and maximum of 20 minutes for a given topic. Under most circumstances, the
Council shall take the matter under advisement, assign the matter to further
study or remain silent on the matter. However, action may be taken immediately.
            5.   All statements shall be directed to the presiding officer; no
person may address or question Council members individually.
            6.   The presiding officer may:
               A.    Prohibit public comments which are frivolous, repetitive,
or harassing;
               B.    Interrupt, warn, or terminate a person’s statement when
the statement is too lengthy, personally directed, abusive, obscene, or
irrelevant;
               C.    Request any individual to leave the meeting when that
person behaves in a manner that is disruptive of the orderly conduct of the
meeting;
               D.    Request the assistance of law enforcement officers in the
removal of a disorderly person when that person’s conduct interferes with the
orderly progress of the meeting;
               E.   Call for a recess or an adjournment to another time when
the lack of public decorum so interferes with the orderly conduct of the
meeting as to warrant such action; and
               F.   Waive these rules with the approval of the Board when
necessary for the protection of privacy or the administration of the Council’s
business.
         (b)   Contempt and disorder in the Council room. No person shall use
violent or contemptuous language, behave in a disorderly manner or refuse to
obey the orders of the President in the Council room while the Town Council is
in session. The President may order the removal from the Council room of anyone
who intentionally disturbs the decorum of a Town Council meeting.
         (c)   Introduction and adoption of ordinances and resolutions.
            1.   All ordinances shall be regularly filed with the Clerk/
Treasurer at least five days before a regular meeting.
            2.   All ordinances shall be read one time before being passed, and
no ordinance shall pass on same day in which it is introduced unless the
provisions of I.C. 36-5-2-9.2, I.C. 36-5-2-9.4, I.C. 36-5-2-9.6 and I.C. 36-5-
2-9.8 are complied with.
            3.   Resolutions shall be subject to the same rule in method of
introduction and adoption as ordinances.
            4.   On the passage or adoption of any ordinances or resolution,
the yeas and nays shall be taken and entered in the record, and the ordinance
shall be processed in accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-10 and I.C. 36-5-2-10.2.
         (d)   Questions of order. The President shall decide all questions of
order. He or she shall decide whether any question submitted to the Council for
adoption or rejection is decided in the affirmative or negative. Robert's Rules
of Order may be referred to in order to resolve issues of order.
         (e)   Appeal from decision of presiding officer. From any decision of
the President, any member may appeal to the Council. The appeal shall be by
motion duly made and seconded. A majority vote as defined in I.C. 36-4-6-11 is
necessary to overrule the chair.
         (f)   Suspension of rules. The order of business may be suspended by
two-thirds vote of the members of the Council.
      (5)   The Town Council shall be composed of three members, elected from
districts. Redistricting of Councilmanic districts shall be done at least every
ten years thereafter in accordance with I.C. 36-4-6-4 and I.C. 36-4-6-5.
      (6)   The Town Council shall serve as the Board of Public Works and
Safety for the town and shall have control of the day to day operations of the
following departments which are hereby established:
         (a)   Police Department; and
         (b)   Street and Sanitation Department.
   (C)   Fiscal branch.
      (1)   The Clerk/Treasurer is the fiscal officer of the town and the head
of the fiscal branch. He or she has the powers set forth in I.C. 36-5-6-6 and
shall perform the duties assigned by I.C. 36-5-6-6 and other duties as the Town
Council may, by ordinance, require.
      (2)   The Clerk/Treasurer is hereby authorized, pursuant to I.C. 36-5-6-
7, to appoint Deputy Clerks for the effective operation of the office, with the
approval of the Town Council. The Deputies shall work under the exclusive
direction of the Clerk/Treasurer and serve at the pleasure of the Clerk/
Treasurer.
      (3)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall furnish space within his or her office
for the administration and records of the town's utilities. The various utility
clerks needed to manage the bookkeeping and administrative requirements of the
utilities shall be appointed and serve at the pleasure of the Clerk/Treasurer,
who shall have the power to supervise the utility personnel in his or her
office, subject to the approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 3-12-96-5, passed 3-12-1996; Res. 12-12-2022, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 30.02 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Beginning with the November 2018 general election, town elections for
all offices shall occur during even-numbered general election years when
elections for federal, state, and other local offices occur.
   (B)   All Town Council members and the Town Clerk-Treasurer elected to
office in the November 2015 election shall serve a term of three years. The
Town Council members and Town Clerk-Treasurer shall next stand for election in
2018. The Town Council members and the Town Clerk-Treasurer elected in 2018
shall serve a four- year term and each subsequent Town Council member and Town
Clerk-Treasurer elected thereafter shall serve a four-year term as provided by
law.
   (C)   The term of office of each town officer begins on January 1 after the
election.
   (D)   This section may not be repealed earlier than 12 years after adoption
and may only be repealed in a year preceding a municipal election held at the
time described in I.C. 3-10-6-5.
(Ord. 2017-03-13-11, passed 4-10-2017)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Organizations
   
31.01   County Area Plan Commission
   
31.02   Police reserves
   
31.03   Department of Parks and Recreation; Board
Employees
   
31.15   Clerk/Treasurer to pay certain expenses
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.01 COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The town shall become an active member of the County Area Plan
Commission and does hereby transfer authority over questions of building
permitting, building inspections and zoning, as established by the Area Zoning
Code of the county, in 1991, to the County Area Plan Commission.
   (B)   The town does hereby adopt by reference those building rules as
established in I.A.C. Title 675.
   (C)   The members of the Town Council are authorized and directed to execute
a joint ordinance with the Board of County Commissioners, which ordinance will
change and reestablish the membership of the County Area Plan Commission.
   (D)   The members of the Town Council are authorized and directed to execute
a joint resolution with the Board of County Commissioners to designate a single
agency for building regulation.
   (E)   The town does hereby adopt the County Building Code, County Ord. 1986-
1, as amended by County Ord. 1995-2, further directing the Building
Commissioner of the county to serve as the Building Inspector for the town.
(Ord. 3-12-96-2, passed 3-12-1996)
§ 31.02 POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   The duly appointed and acting Town Marshal may appoint up to a maximum
of nine reserve officers to be known as town's reserve police officers.
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall administer and each town reserve officer shall
subscribe to an appropriate oath wherein each officer agrees to abide by the
laws of the state, the ordinances adopted by the town and all rules and
regulations which the Marshal may prescribe from time to time.
   (C)   As a condition of appointment as a town reserve officer, each person
shall complete the training and probationary period specified by rules of the
Town Police Department.
   (D)   No person appointed as a town reserve police officer may do the
following unless the police reserve officer successfully completes a pre-basic
course under I.C. 5-2-1-9(f):
      (1)   Make an arrest;
      (2)   Conduct a search or a seizure of a person or property; and/or
      (3)   Carry a firearm.
   (E)   Town reserve police officers may not be members of the regular Police
Department, but have all of the same police powers as regular members, except
as limited by the rules of the Department.
(Ord. 6-8-98-1, passed - -1998)
§ 31.03 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION; BOARD.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3, there is hereby created a Department of
Parks and Recreation for the town.
   (B)   All prior ordinances or resolutions creating separate park and
recreation authority for the town are hereby repealed.
   (C)   The Department shall consist of a Parks and Recreation Board, a
Superintendent and other personnel that the Council determines.
   (D)   The Parks and Recreation Board consists of four members to be
appointed by the President of the Town Council.
   (E)   The members of the Parks and Recreation Board shall be appointed on
the basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation, but no
more than two members may be affiliated with the same political party. Members
of the Parks and Recreation Board must be residents of the town.
(Ord. 1-11-99-2, passed - -1999)
EMPLOYEES
§ 31.15 CLERK/TREASURER TO PAY CERTAIN EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized, pursuant to I.C.
36-5-4-12, to pay in advance of Council allowance, any expenses which become
due or on which a discount may be obtained by early payment when the date
occurs between regularly scheduled meetings of the Town Council, the payment
not being otherwise prohibited by law.
   (B)   The pre-approved payments of claims may include the following types of
expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; and/or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and/or
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   A product or service for which the Town Council has accepted a
bid.
   (C)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized claim.
   (D)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at its next regular
or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2-13-96-6, passed 2-13-1996)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Personnel policies
   
32.02   Drug-free workplace policy
   
32.03   Nepotism policy
   
32.04   Capital asset capitalization policy
   
32.05   Internal control standards
   
32.06   Bad debt policies and procedures
   
32.07   Capital asset policy
§ 32.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   (A)   General. All employee policies will be strictly enforced.
   (B)   Purpose of personnel policies. The objective of establishing these
policies is to guarantee a high quality of public service through employment
and supervision in accordance with carefully considered guidelines. These
policies are designed to promote better understanding and working relationship
between employer and employee, and to assure fairness of opportunity for each
employee to compete for advancement and assure him or her of job security so
long as he or she performs his or her duties in a satisfactory manner and in
accordance with provisions of these policies.
   (C)   Vacation leave. Full-time employees earn vacation leave at the rate of
one week after the first year and two weeks after the second year, and three
weeks after ten years. Vacation may be accrued from year to year, however, the
total accrual and carry-over shall not exceed the number of vacation days
earned in any one year, by any employee (e.g., employee earns two weeks
vacation, that employee may carry-over not more than two weeks vacation accrual
beyond December 31 of each year). Holidays and non-working days will not be
counted in charging vacation leave. Vacations will be with pay.
   (D)   Sick leave. Full-time employees shall earn one day of sick leave for
each two months of service. In order to use sick leave, the employee must be
sick, injured or under legal quarantine. Sick leave may be accumulated not to
exceed 30 days total sick leave. The Town Council may require a physician's
certificate stating that the employee has been ill and unable to work.
   (E)   Other types of leave with pay. There are several situations when an
employee may be granted leave with pay for special or unusual reasons.
      (1)   He or she may be allowed to leave with pay for a maximum of three
days in the case of death in his or her immediate family. Additional requests
must be approved by the Town Council only.
      (2)   Under certain conditions, an employee may be granted leave with pay
in order to secure appropriate special education or training directly related
to his or her job. Educational leaves must be approved by the Town Council.
Leaves of absence may be granted for full-time professional training at the
discretion of the employer.
      (3)   An employee may be granted leave with pay for jury duty or National
Guard Duty. His or her total daily compensation would not exceed his or her
normal daily pay. Maternity leaves: staff members should report off duty and
return to duty at the discretion of her physician. This leave is without pay
and should not exceed three months.
   (F)   Sewage plant hours. 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, one-
half hour for lunch.
   (G)   Holiday pay. To receive holiday pay, an employee must work the day
before the actual holiday and the day after if the employee is scheduled for
any of these days.
   (H)   Duties of employees.
      (1)   Duties may and will include anything within reason, examples such
as cutting grass, removal of dead animals, turning meters off and on, fixing
breaks either in plant on in lines. Employees will also do the cleaning up of
areas where they work; also, painting and general maintenance or anything
needed by the town.
      (2)   All utility employees are to be subject to duties from the Town
Manager.
   (I)   Suspension and dismissal. The Town Council may suspend or terminate an
employee of the town, with or without cause, and without a right to a hearing.
   (J)   Overtime policies. There will be no overtime without the authorization
of the Town Manager.
   (K)   Options of the Town Council. The Council will spot check all areas of
facilities and areas of concern to the town.
   (L)   Utility Department. The Town Manager has the authority to hire and
fire, with the Town Council having final judgment.
   (M)   Evaluation. An employee is evaluated by his or her immediate
supervisor. This is reported to the Town Council either orally or in writing.
   (N)   Resignation. To resign in good standing an employee should notify, in
writing, the Town Council at least 14 days before he or she intends to leave.
   (O)   Time cards. Time cards should be turned in to the Town Manager for his
or her signature and authority. Time cards are due to the Town Manager by 4:00
p.m. on Thursdays.
   (P)   Purchases. All purchases are to be cleared with the Town Manager
before purchase is made.
(Ord. 12-13-04-1, passed - -2004; Ord. 12-10-07-1, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 32.02 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY.
   (A)   Overview. The town makes a commitment to provide employees a safe
working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards, and to maintain public
confidence in the town and its employees. Since the town values each employee,
the town offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and drug abuse
problems.
   (B)   Policy. The town requires all employees to report for work in a
condition that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient
manner. Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol
or with prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (1)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (2)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the town at
any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws or
to better serve the needs of the town.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C.
8120 and the Code of Federal Regulations 21 C.F.R. 1308.11-1308.15) and
prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include but are not limited to marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for town business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988).
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether the
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee’s actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the town’s reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual’s responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug-related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other town policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The town will not ask employees to submit a random alcohol or drug
tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
town; and
         (c)   When required by law.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding application opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 3-13-95-0, passed 3-13-1995; Ord. 2-9-15-01, passed 2-9-2015)
§ 32.03 NEPOTISM POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply.
   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual's employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
and advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the executive, legislative body or fiscal body of the town,
as provided by law, to make decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets or
personnel policies of the town.
   EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the town on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds an elected office. The  term includes an individual who is
a party to an employment contract with the town.
   MEMBER OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT. The fire chief or a firefighter appointed to
the department.
   RELATIVE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A spouse;
      (2)   A parent or stepparent;
      (3)   A child or stepchild, including an adopted child or stepchild;
      (4)   A brother, sister, stepbrother or stepsister, including a brother
or sister by half-blood;
      (5)   A niece or nephew;
      (6)   An aunt or uncle; and
      (7)   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law
   (B)   Employment policy.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives may not be employed by the town in a
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
      (2)   This division applies to an individual who:
         (a)   Is employed by the town on the date the individual's relative
begins serving a term of an elected office of the town; and
         (b)   Is not exempt from the application under division (C) of this
policy.
Notwithstanding, division (B)(1), an individual may remain employed by the town
and maintain the individual 's position or rank even if the individual's
employment would violate this policy. However, an individual described in this
division, may not be promoted, unless such promotion is within the merit ranks
of a merit Fire Department, if the promotion would otherwise violate this
policy.
      (3)   This policy does not abrogate or affect an employment contract with
the town that:
         (a)   An individual is a party to; and
         (b)   Is in effect on the date the individual's relative begins
serving a term of an elected office of the town.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   An individual who is employed by the town on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this policy unless the individual has a break in employment with the
town. The following are not considered a break in employment with the town:
         (a)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or
unpaid leave, including vacation, sick or family medical leave, or worker's
compensation; and
         (b)   The individual's employment with the town is terminated followed
by immediate reemployment by the town, without loss of payroll time.
      (2)   For purposes of this policy, the performance of the duties of:
         (a)   A precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. § 3-5-2-40.1)
that are imposed by I.C. § 3; or
         (b)   A volunteer firefighter is not considered employment by the
town.
   (D)   Certification.
      (1)   Each elected officer of the town shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties for perjury, that the officer has not violated this
policy. An officer shall submit the certification to the Clerk- Treasurer of
the town not later than December 31 of each year.
      (2)   The annual report filed by the town with the State Board of
Accounts under I.C. § 5-11-13-1 must include a statement by the Clerk-Treasurer
of the
town stating whether the town has implemented a policy I.C. § 36-1-20.2.
(Res. 3-9-15-01, passed 3-9-2015)
§ 32.04 CAPITAL ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions and provisions. For the purpose of this section, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      BUILDINGS. A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments
include roofs, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting or sprinkler systems, or
any part of the basic building. The department will include the cost of items
designed or purchased exclusively for the building.
         (a)   A department's new building will be capitalized only if it meets
the following conditions: (1) the total cost exceeds $5,000; and (2) the useful
life is greater than two years.
         (b)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize the cost only if the result meets all of the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
            2.   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
            3.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
         (c)   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
buildings, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest
cost (while under construction), accounting costs, if material and any costs
directly attribute to the construction of a building.
         (d)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value
on the date of transfer and any associated costs.
         (e)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvement of buildings, structures or other fixed assets; and
equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness.
These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the
government's general capital assets.
      ENTERPRISE FUNDS.
         (a)   Those funds used to account for operations: (a) that are
financed and operated in a manner similar to private business enterprise, where
the intent of the governing body is that the costs (expenses, including
depreciation) of providing goods or services to the general public on a
continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily through user charges; or
(b) where the governing body has decided that periodic determination of
revenues earned, expenses incurred, and/or net income is appropriate for
capital maintenance, public policy, management control, accountability and
other purposes.
         (b)   The enterprise funds of the town shall include the municipally-
owned water and wastewater utilities. Operation of these utilities shall
require enterprise fund accounting and reporting.
      FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the
operating activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are
needed for the production or sale of goods or services are termed property,
plant and equipment or fixed assets. These assets are not held for sale in the
ordinary course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (e.g., land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and
fixtures.)
      HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or
services at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment and most
inventories are common examples of items recognized under the historical cost
attribute.
      IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS. The definition of this group is
improvements to land for better enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, and
will have a life expectancy of greater than two years.
         (a)   Examples include walks, parking areas and drives, golf cart
paths, fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planters,
underground sprinkler systems and other similar items.
         (b)   This town will capitalize new improvements other than buildings
only if it meets the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
            2.   The useful life is greater than two years.
         (c)   A department will capitalize improvements or renovations to
existing improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the
following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $5,000;
            2.   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
            3.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      LAND. Costs incurred to maintain infrastructures, such as, roads and
streets, street lighting systems, bridges, sidewalks, curbs, street signs,
viaducts, and storm water collection, shall not be capitalized.
         (a)   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work, opinion and title insurance), appraisal and negotiation
fees, surveying and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose
(including contractors and/or town workers salary and benefits), such as
demolishing buildings, excavating, clean-up, and/or inspection.
         (b)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on
the date of transfer plus any associated costs.
         (c)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT. An apparatus, tool or conglomeration of pieces
to form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not become a part of a basic
structure or building.
         (a)   This town will capitalize and tag items with an individual value
equal to or greater than $500. Machinery combined with other machinery to form
one unit with a total value greater than the above mention limit will be one
unit.
         (b)   Shipping charges, consultant fees and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, deliver or set-up (including contractors and/or
town workers (salary and benefits), which makes such equipment operable for its
intended purpose will be capitalized.
         (c)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
            1.   Total costs exceed $500.00;
            2.   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
            3.   The total costs will be greater than the current book value
and less than the fair market value.
         (d)   Examples include:
            1.   A work truck being equipped with screens, lights or radios for
use as a single unit throughout its life expectancy is considered one unit.
            2.   If police cars are constantly changing light bars or radios to
other vehicles, the town will capitalize each piece of equipment separately, if
it meets the required dollar amount.
            3.   A department's computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard and printer)
is considered one unit.
            4.   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at
fair market value of the date of transfer with any associated costs.
            5.   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the
physical senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard
and smelled.
   (B)   Recording and accounting.
      (1)   The town and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Towns
Accounting Manual. The cost of property, land and equipment includes all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the town and its departments, the
valuation of assets shall be based on historical cost or where the historical
cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in existence.
      (2)   The town's municipally-owned utilities shall record acquisition of
capital assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
When an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply recorded as the
amount of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its purchase and
preparation for intended use. Assets may be acquired under a number of other
arrangements including:
         (a)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase price;
         (b)   Purchase on deferred payment contract;
         (c)   Acquisition under capital lease;
         (d)   Acquisition by exchange of non-monetary assets;
         (e)   Acquisition by issuance of securities;
         (f)   Acquisition by self-construction; and
         (g)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
      (3)   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to the
cost to be recorded. For example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has long been recognized as a part of the asset cost.
Reference to an intermediate accounting manual will illustrate the recording of
acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements. For
purposes of recording capital assets of the utilities, the valuation of assets
shall be based on historical cost.
      (4)   In addition, an asset register (prescribed form 211) shall be
maintained to provide a detailed record of the capital assets of the
governmental unit. Capital Asset Categories shall be those described in
Appendix A, hereto, which describes the depreciable life of each category, the
Asset Account Number and the Expense Account Number.
   (C)   Safeguarding of assets. Be it ordained that accounting controls be
designed and implemented to provide reasonable assurances that:
      (1)   Capital expenditures made by the town, its various departments and
utilities be in accordance with management's authorization as documented in the
minutes;
      (2)   Transactions of the utilities are to be recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted principles;
      (3)   Adequate detail records are to be maintained to assure
accountability for town and utilities owned assets;
   (D)   Access to assets is to be permitted in accordance with management's
authorization; and
   (E)   The recorded accountability for assets are to be compared with the
existing assets at least every two years and appropriate action be taken with
respect to any difference.
(Ord. 06-13-16-02, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 32.05 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All employees, council members, consultants, vendors, contractors and
other parties maintaining a business relationship with the town shall act with
due diligence in duties involving the town's fiscal resources.
   (B)   Per state law, the Council adopts the Uniform Internal Control
Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions in order to aid in the prevention
and detection of fraud, financial impropriety, or irregularity.
   (C)   The President of the Council shall be responsible to implement the
internal control standards designed to prevent and detect fraud, financial
impropriety, or fiscal irregularities within the town and to recommend to the
Council any policies or procedures required to carry out the standards.
   (D)   Training shall be provided on the internal control standards and
procedures to all town employees and newly hired employees whose duties include
receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or having access to town funds.
Such training should be given periodically to these employees whenever the
standards have been changed or updated, including new town policies and
procedures relating to the internal control standards and training to refresh
the employees on the standards requirements.
(Ord. - -, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 32.06 BAD DEBT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The following provisions shall constitute the “bad debt”/“uncollectible
accounts receivable” write-off policies and procedures for the town.
   (A)   In the event that the town’s accounts receivable are not paid within
the time frame determined by the town, its agent or designee, the same shall be
deemed delinquent. A penalty of the total account receivable bill for the
municipal utilities shall be attached as delinquent.
   (B)   As used herein, BAD DEBT shall mean a delinquent account receivable,
for which the town, agent or designee of the town, has reasonably and
diligently attempted collection but to which such collection remains
unsuccessful.
   (C)   The Clerk/Treasurer on an annual basis shall submit to the Town
Council a list of the uncollectible billings from the municipal utilities. The
Town Council, by majority vote, shall waive these uncollectible billings.
   (D)   The town, its agent or designee shall generate a formal report setting
forth any and all efforts made to collect bad debts, and that such efforts have
been unsuccessful.
   (E)   The town, its agent or designee in the formal report shall state the
reasons that the town, its agent or designee believes it is economically not
feasible to pursue further collection measures on the accounts receivable
listed as the aforementioned “bad debts.”
   (F)   The annual schedule described in division (C) above and the formal
report described in division (D) above, listing delinquent accounts, may be
declared uncollectible, and the town by resolution may authorize the town, its
agent or designee to cease further collection procedures after deeming
documented accounts as “bad debts,” and may cause any and all bad debts to be
written off.
(Ord. 7-13-2020-1, passed 8-10-2020)
Cross-references:
   Refuse collection, see §
50.01
   Sewers, generally, see
Ch. 53
   Water, generally, see
Ch. 52
   Water and sewer connection, see §
51.01
§ 32.07 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   General information. 
      (1)   The Capital Asset Policy will be effective January 1, 2023. The
Capital Asset Policy documents the minimum value of capital assets to be
reported on the Town of Milan Annual Financial Report. The Capital Asset Policy
follows the Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement 34. The town
will be required to depreciate capital assets. The minimum capital asset
threshold will be $5,000. An asset valued less than $5,000 will be expensed in
the year of the purchase.
      (2)   The Capital Asset Policy will serve to classify capital assets for
accuracy in financial reporting through the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   Definition of capital assets.
      (1)   Capital assets include land, infrastructure, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery, equipment, and vehicles,
construction in progress, and other capital assets. All capital assets will
have useful lives of more than one year and a unit cost of $5,000 or more. All
land will be capitalized but not depreciated.
      (2)   Items costing less than $5,000 which are permanently installed as a
part of the cost of original construction or installation of a larger building
or unit of equipment will be included in the cost of the larger unit.
      (3)   Purchases made with grant funds must comply with grant requirements
if the grant requirements are more restrictive.
      (4)   The following table contains the capitalization thresholds for
capital assets:
Capital Asset Major Category Capitalization Thresholds
Land                         All
Capital Asset Major Category      Capitalization Thresholds
Land                              All
Buildings                         $20,000
Improvements Other Than Buildings $20,000
Machinery, Equipment, & Vehicles  $5,000
Infrastructure                    $20,000
Construction in Progress          All
Other Capital Assets              $10,000
 
   (C)   Valuation of capital assets.
      (1)   Capital assets should be recorded at historical cost. The cost
normally includes the purchase price or construction costs of the asset, but it
also should include any reasonable and necessary costs incurred to place the
asset in its intended location and its intended use. Such costs could include
the following: freight, site preparation, fees (architectural, engineering,
legal, appraisal, and surveying), demolition, interest, and other reasonable
costs.
      (2)   Donated or contributed assets should be recorded at fair market
value on the date of acquisition.
   (D)   Asset definition by major category.
      (1)   Land. Specified land, lots, parcels, or acreage including rights-
of-way owned by the Town of Plainfield, its various departments, boards, or
authorities, regardless of the method or date of acquisition.
      (2)   Improvements other than buildings.  Assets such as parking areas,
fencing, retaining walls, pools, fountains, planters, underground sprinkler
systems, and other similar items. For utility assets, this category would
include all equipment and facilities required and used to deliver public water
to the users, and all equipment and facilities used to collect, treat, and
dispose of sewage for a sanitary sewer operation.
      (3)   Buildings. Permanent structures designed and erected to house
equipment services or functions are included. This includes systems, services,
and fixtures within the buildings and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire
escapes, canopies, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and all other such units that
serve the building.
      (4)   Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling, ventilation,
and air handling systems, alarm systems, sound systems, surveillance systems,
elevators, escalators, walk-in coolers and freezers, fixed shelving, and other
fixed equipment are included with the building.
      (5)   Machinery, equipment, and vehicles. Assets that are primarily
movable items. Included in this category are office equipment, office
furniture, appliances, furnishings, machinery items, maintenance equipment,
communication equipment, police, fire, and park equipment, laboratory
equipment, vehicles, road equipment, aircraft, emergency equipment, earth-
moving equipment, and data processing equipment. All supplies are excluded.
      (6)   Infrastructure. Assets that are long-lived capital assets that
normally are stationary in nature and can be preserved for a significantly
greater number of years than most capital assets. Examples include roads,
streetlights, traffic signals, drainage systems, and water systems.
Infrastructure assets do not include buildings, drives, parking lots, or any
other examples given above that are incidental to property or access to the
property above.
      (7)   Other capital assets. Capital assets that do not fit into any of
the other major categories listed above (e.g. certain software, intellectual
property, etc.)
   (E)   Depreciation methods and salvage value.
      (1)   Depreciation represents the recognition of the cost of an asset
over time by calculating its estimated loss in value during each year.
Generally, at the end of the asset's life, the sum of the amounts charged for
depreciation in each year (accumulated depreciation) will equal the original
cost less salvage value.
      (2)   The salvage value of an asset is the value it is expected to have
when it is no longer useful for its intended purpose. The town assumes a
salvage value of $0 but may evaluate on an asset-by-asset basis.
      (3)   The Town of Milan depreciates the majority of its capital assets
using the Straight-Line Method. Under this method, the same amount of
depreciation is deducted from the value of an asset every year for its useful
life. The town takes the full year of depreciation of a capital asset in the
year of acquisition and recognizes no salvage value (book value of a capital
asset after all depreciation has been fully expensed). Land and Construction in
Progress are capital asset categories that are not depreciated. Construction in
Progress assets become another category of assets once the asset is
substantially ready to be placed in service.
      (4)   The town depreciates its infrastructure capital assets using the
group or composite methods of depreciation. The group or composite methods of
depreciation apply a single straight-line depreciation rate and average useful
life to the calculation of depreciation for a group of assets.
Estimated Useful Lives
Land N/A
Estimated Useful Lives
Land                                   N/A
Buildings and Improvements to Building 50 Years
Machinery and Equipment                5 Years
Automobiles                            5 Years
Light Trucks                           8 Years
Heavy Trucks                           15 Years
Paths and Trails                       15 Years
Parking Lots                        15 Years
Retaining Walls                        15 Years
Lighting Systems                       15 Years
Plazas and Pavilions                   15 Years
Fencing                                15 Years
Water Features                         15 Years
Roads                                  50 Years
Bridges                                75 Years
Water/Sewer Lines                      50 Years
Street Lighting                        25 Years
Storm Drains                           50 Years
Sidewalks                              15 Years
Construction in Progress               N/A
 
   (F)   Capital asset acquisition. The method of acquisition of a capital
asset is not a determining factor. Each department shall report capital assets
acquired by any of the following:
      (1)   Regular purchases;
      (2)   Construction by town personnel;
      (3)   Construction by an outside contractor;
      (4)   Resolution/condemnation;
      (5)   Donation/contribution;
      (6)   Addition to an existing asset;
      (7)   Transfer from another department;
      (8)   Trade/barter;
      (9)   Annexation; or
      (10)   Lease purchase.
         (a)   Leased equipment should be capitalized if the lease agreement
meets any one of the following criteria:
            1.   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by
the end of the lease term.
            2.   The lease contains a bargain purchase option.
            3.   The lease term is equal to 75% of the estimated economic life
of the leased property.
            4.   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the
inception of the lease (excluding executory costs) equals at least 90% of the
fair-value of the leased property.
         (b)   Leases that do not meet any of the above criteria are considered
operating leases.
   (G)   Asset transfers and dispositions. Capital assets should not be
transferred, sent to auction, or disposed of without prior approval of the
Department Head and consent from the Town Council. A list of the capital assets
being transferred or disposed of should be sent to the Town Fiscal Officer
prior to transfer or disposal. Notification should be given if the asset
changes location or is retired/disposed.
   (H)   Periodic inventories. A physical inventory of all capital assets will
be conducted in each department annually at a minimum. The inventory will be
conducted on or before December 31 each year by the Town Fiscal Officer or a
designee. Department Heads will be accountable for the capital asset inventory
of their department by verifying a list of capital assets prior to year-end.
   (I)   Responsibilities of Town Fiscal Officer. The Fiscal Officer will
ensure that capital assets are being accounted for by establishing a capital
asset inventory, both initially and annually in subsequent years. The Fiscal
Officer will further ensure that the capital asset report will be updated
annually to reflect additions, reductions, and transfers. The Fiscal Officer
will also report annual capital asset balances as required by the State Board
of Accounts on the Town Annual Financial Report.
   (J)   Responsibilities of Department Heads. It is the responsibility of the
Department Head to keep an accurate record of the department's capital assets.
The Department Head or a designee will act as the contact during the physical
inventory process. Someone within the department shall be designated by the
Department Head to record the receipt of the asset at time of acquisition and
to follow the procedures above at the time the asset is transferred or disposed
of. The Department Head or a designee shall act as a steward for each capital
asset while it is owned and used by the department. In addition, any damage or
theft of a capital asset shall be reported to the Department Head and Fiscal
Officer within a reasonable amount of time.
(Ord. 12082024-1, passed 12-9-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   REFUSE
         
51.   WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS
         
52.   WATER
         
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Collection rates
§ 50.01 COLLECTION RATES.
   (A)   The refuse collection rates for trash and recycling shall be fixed and
established at the monthly rates established below for each household.
 
Monthly Rate              Per Unit/Trash Cart/Recycling Bin
Beginning January 1, 2023 $19.00
Beginning August 1, 2023  $19.76
Beginning August 1, 2024  $20.55
Beginning August 1, 2025  The higher of $20.55 or contract price.
 
   (B)   An additional monthly charge shall be fixed and established at $3.50
or contract price for any replacement or additional trash carts per household.
(Ord. 11-18-97-1, passed 11-18-1997; Ord. 10-14-2019-2, passed 11-18-2019; Ord.
11-14-2022, passed 12-12-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Bad debt policies and procedures, see §
32.06
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS
Section
   
51.01   Connection fee; sewer and water systems
Cross-reference:
   Bad debt policies and procedures, see §
32.06
§ 51.01 CONNECTION FEE; SEWER AND WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Permit fee for individual water tap. The town shall provide all
material for individual metering devices to the meter pit. All multiple-use
development, such as apartment, mobile home parks, shopping center and office
buildings will have separate meters for each individual unit. The town shall be
deemed right of easement to the customer property for the purpose of repair,
reading, testing and termination of service. The property owner will maintain
the line or lines to the street or meter pit.
Line Size Tap-in Fee
Line Size         Tap-in Fee
5/8-inch—3/4-inc$800
1-inch            $900
1-1/2-inch        $1,000
2-inch            $2,000
3-inch            $2,500
4-inch            $3,000
6-inch and above  $6,000
 
   (B)   Service reconnect fee. $50.
   (C)   Fire service connection. $2,500 per connection.
   (D)   Permit fee for individual sewer tap.
      (1)   An application for a new sewer service, from any main line of the
municipally owned sewer system, shall pay a tap-in fee of $800 for single-
family residential and per unit for multi-family. Commercial, non-residential
and non-industrial shall pay a tap-in fee in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
$1,000 Less than 1-inch water line
$2,000 Less than 2-inch water line
$2,500 Less than 3-inch water line
$3,000 Less than 4-inch water line
$5,000 Greater than 4-inch water line
 
      (2)   The town is responsible for sewer line repair and replacement from
the sewer main to the edge of the street. The property owner is also
responsible for maintaining the sewer line (i.e., keeping line clean and in
working order from the sewer main to the dwelling). Sewer customers that do not
have town water service will pay a deposit of $100.
      (3)   Impact fees for any new sewer line extension will be $1,500 per
building lot.
      (4)   All tap-in and impact fees shall be paid to the town prior to
obtaining a building permit.
(Ord. 2-11-02-1, passed 2-11-2002; Ord. 7-13-2015-1, passed 9-14-2015)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Monthly rates and charges
   
52.02   Billing for services
   
52.03   Discontinuance of service
Connections to and Service of Potable Water System
   
52.15   Payment and construction requirements
   
52.16   Town's main lines or meters; written consent required
   
52.17   Multi-use development; easements
   
52.18   Prohibited connections
   
52.19   Right to terminate services
   
52.20   Interruption of service; liability
   
52.21   Fees
   
52.22   Construction requirements
   
52.23   Protection of public water system from contamination due to backflow
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 MONTHLY RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The minimum charges per month based on water meter size are as
follows:
Water Meter Size Gallons Minimum Charge
Water Meter Size Gallons Minimum Charge
5/8 inch         3,000   $59.01
3/4 inch         3,000   $59.01
1 inch           7,500   $142.26
1-1/4 inch       12,000  $225.51
1-1/2 inch       17,400  $325.41
2 inch           30,000  $558.51
3 inch           69,000  $1,280.01
4 inch           123,000 $2,279.01
 
   (B)   Metered rates per 1,000 gallons based on monthly water usage.
 
First 3,000 gallons $19.67
Over 3,000 gallons  $18.50
 
   (C)   Non-recurring charges.
 
Forfeited discounts (penalties) 10% on the late amount
 
   (D)   Customer deposit.
 
Water deposit $100.00
 
(Ord. 11-19-07-1, passed 11-19-2007; Ord. 7-13-2015-1, passed 9-14-2015; Ord.
101923-2, passed 10-19-2023)
§ 52.02 BILLING FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Customers will be billed for services on a monthly basis. Meters will
be read by utility personnel on or about the 29th day of each month and shall
include the prior month's usage of water. Bills for water service will be
mailed to customers on or about the 12th day of the month following reading of
the meter. Payment for water service is due and payable on or before the 29th
day of the month following issuance of the bill.
   (B)   Any utility charges remaining unpaid after the 29th day of the month
following issuance of the bill shall be considered delinquent and shall be
assessed delinquency charges equal to an additional 10% of the first $3 of
unpaid water charges, plus 3% of the unpaid balance of the bill, excluding any
prior delinquent charges and taxes. An additional reconnection charge of $50
shall be assessed if water service is reconnected after the utility's
disconnection from service due to delinquent bills. All water charges,
including past due and the current month's charges and including any delinquent
charges and any reconnection fee, shall be paid prior to service being
reconnected.
   (C)   In the event of a failure of any meter, the town will bill water usage
based on the average of billings for the immediately preceding six months prior
to the failure.
   (D)   In the event of a leak in the customer's water service line which does
not enter the sewer system, the town will adjust the sewer charge for one
month's billing based on an average six months' billing.
   (E)   The Clerk/Treasurer is authorized to proceed and collect any past due
water utility bills, including delinquencies through legal process, including
filing suit in Ripley County Small Claims Court.
   (F)   In the case of rental property both te renter and the property owner
shall be responsible for any unpaid water utility bills.
(Ord. 8-13-96-3, passed 8-13-1996; Ord. 7-13-2015-1, passed 9-14-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Bad debt policies and procedures, see §
32.06
§ 52.03 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to discontinue service to a customer for
the following reasons:
      (1)   Continued wasting or improper use of water after it has been called
to the customer's attention;
      (2)   Interfering with or destroying any water appurtenances or
appliances belonging to the utility; or
      (3)   Failure to timely pay charges and bills for service within ten days
of their being due.
   (B)   Upon the failure of a customer to pay any water bill within ten days
of its being due, the town has the right to discontinue water service by
shutting off the service at the water main. No notice of discontinuance need be
given to the customer. Service to the customer shall not be restored until
payment of all outstanding charges, including the current month's bill and any
delinquencies, and the reconnection fee is made.
   (C)   The town has the right to discontinue water service to a water
customer or any property upon failure of the water customer or the property
owner to pay charges legally due for sewer or sewage disposal plant services
(see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4) which charges remain due and unpaid for 30 days.
(Ord. 8-13-96-3, passed 8-13-1996)
CONNECTIONS TO AND SERVICE OF POTABLE WATER SYSTEM
§ 52.15 PAYMENT AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person, firm, limited liability company, corporation or other legal
entity (the customer) which receives or desires to purchase potable water from
the town's public water system (the system) shall:
   (A)   Pay a tap fee in the amount hereinafter specified to the town prior to
obtaining service;
   (B)   Construct a service line from the customer's property to a point on
the town's main line designated by the town for connection to the system;
   (C)   Permit the town to install appropriate metering devices on the
customer's property at point as the town shall designate;
   (D)   Pay the actual cost of any extension of the town's main line in the
event extension of the line is deemed necessary by the town;
   (E)   Furnish, install and maintain a shut-off valve at a point on the
customer's property to enable the customer to shutoff service to the customer's
property;
   (F)   Grant an easement upon the customer's property for the purposes of
reading, testing, installing, repairing or replacing metering devices;
   (G)   Comply with the town's specifications whenever the customer constructs
a line which it intends to transfer to the town as a main line extension; and
   (H)   Comply with the rules and regulations adopted by the town from time to
time and the laws, rules and regulations of the state governing potable water
systems.
(Ord. passed 8- -1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.16 TOWN'S MAIN LINES OR METERS; WRITTEN CONSENT REQUIRED.
   The customer shall not repair, move, replace or extend any of the town's
main lines or meters without the express written consent of the town.
(Ord. passed 8- -1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.17 MULTI-USE DEVELOPMENT; EASEMENTS.
   Any multiple-use development, such as apartments, mobile home parks,
shopping centers or office buildings, shall require separate metering. The town
shall be deemed to have been granted an easement to the customer's property for
the purpose of testing and reading each meter.
(Ord. passed 8- -1998)
§ 52.18 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   It is expressly prohibited to connect any other water source to any line
which is connected to the system, regardless of whether shutoff valves have
been installed.
(Ord. passed 8- -1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.19 RIGHT TO TERMINATE SERVICES.
   The town reserves the right to terminate service without prior notice to the
customer:
   (A)   To repair or replace lines and equipment;
   (B)   In the event the town's supply of water is terminated or suspended;
   (C)   In the event the customer has violated any of the rules and
regulations of the town governing the system;
   (D)   For non-payment for service when payment is due; and
   (E)   For any other condition on the customer's property which at the
discretion of the town appears to constitute an unlawful or unsafe condition.
(Ord. passed 8- -1998)
§ 52.20 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE; LIABILITY.
   In the event of interruption of service to the customer, the town shall not
be liable for any damages of any kind or nature, including, but not limited to,
personal injury, property damage, loss of income or loss of use of the
property.
(Ord. passed 8- -1998)
§ 52.21 FEES.
   The town shall collect the following fees, in addition to the rates and
charges for service regularly imposed.
   (A)   Each customer shall pay to the town as a condition of obtaining
service a fee equal to the actual cost to the town of the metering device and
related yoke and other necessary plumbing and labor, machinery and tools
reasonably required to connect the customer to the system; provided, however,
that, the following minimum tap fee shall be payable to the town prior to the
commencement of connection of the customer to the main line:
 
3/4-inch               $450
1-inch to 1-1/2-inch   $1,250
Larger than 1-1/2-inch Actual cost of tap
 
   (B)   In the event any charge is not paid in full by the twentieth day of
each month, a collection charge equal to 10% of the first $3 of the delinquent
fee, plus 3% of the delinquent fee which exceeds $3.
   (C)   Customers shall be charged a service fee of the greater of $20 or 5%
of the face amount for each check returned to the town for any reason.
   (D)   In the event service is terminated by reason of the failure to pay the
charges for services or any other fees imposed pursuant to this subchapter or
any other ordinance of the town or for violation of the rules and regulations
herein, the service shall not be restored until all delinquent fees have been
paid in full and the town is satisfied that the customer is in full compliance
with the rules and regulations of the town and all other ordinances of the
town.
   (E)   The town may require that the customer deposit a sum in an amount as
the town may reasonably determine to assure the payment of all services and
fees which may be incurred by the customer.
   (F)   The town shall collect a fee of $100 for each bacteriological sample
taken.
   (G)   After hours fee. A service fee in addition to other applicable fees,
will be applied for services performed outside the normal business hours and
schedule of utility. The after hours fee shall be $50 per hour for all users.
(Ord. passed 8- -1998; Ord. 7-13-2015-1, passed 9-14-2015; Ord. 05132024-1,
passed 5-13-2024)
§ 52.22 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   In the event the town is requested to provide service within or without the
town in a location requiring the construction of additional mainlines, the
customer shall proceed as follows.
   (A)   The customer shall make a written application to the town, describing
the extension with the relevant information as the Utility Superintendent may
request to enable the town to consider the extension.
   (B)   The customer shall bear all expenses of construction of the extension.
   (C)   The town shall be notified by the customer when the customer is
prepared to bury a main line. The town shall inspect and approve each main line
extension before it is buried.
   (D)   The customer shall construct the extension according to the
specifications of the town.
   (E)   The customer may be required to maintain the extension for a period
deemed sufficient by the town to satisfy the town of the integrity of the
extension.
   (F)   The customer may be required to post a bond as the town may specify to
guarantee that the extension is completed and operable.
   (G)   All construction shall fully comply with the rules and regulations of
the State Board of Health, State Department of Environmental Management or any
other state of federal agency which may have jurisdiction over potable water
service.
   (H)   The town shall not be required to, but may, if it deems it in the best
interests of the town, make the main line extensions as it shall determine.
   (I)   Potable water shall not be delivered through any extension of a main
line until the line has been properly sanitized and complies with the 1986 Safe
Drinking Water Act, as amended, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 300f et seq. All testing
shall be at the sole cost of the person, firm, corporation or limited liability
company which constructed the main line.
   (J)   Fire hydrants shall be installed according to the specifications of
the town in effect at the time the fire hydrants are placed in service.
(Ord. passed 8- -1998)
§ 52.23 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM FROM CONTAMINATION DUE TO BACKFLOW.
   The Town Council of the Town of Milan, Indiana hereby ordains:
   (A)   That a cross connection shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the Milan water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
   (B)   That no person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross connection. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the town and by
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management in accordance with 327 IAC
8-10.
   (C)   That it shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to be made
of all properties served by the public water system where cross connections
with the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections
and re-inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be
established by the town.
   (D)   That upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town
shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine the
property served by a connection to the public water system of Milan, Indiana
for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any
property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed
evidence of the presence of cross connections.
   (E)   That the town water work is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination to the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this section.
   (F)   That, if it is deemed by the town water work that a cross connection
or an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires
immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Town
Clerk and delivered to the consumer's premises, service may be immediately
discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten
days of such emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   That all consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow preventer in
the main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow
preventer must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to
flooding or freezing.
   (H)   The reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level.
   (I)   That this section does not supersede the Indiana Plumbing Code, the
IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-10.
   (J)   In addition to IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-10-4(c), certain customer
facilities need a backflow prevention device.
   (K)   That if, in the judgment of the Town Manager, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the
Town Manager will give notice to the water consumer to install such an approved
device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his or her own expense,
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner approved by the
Town Manager and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices
as required by the Town Manager and in accordance with the IDEM Rule 327 IAC 8-
10.
(Ord. 2017-6-12-2, passed 7-10-2017)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Connection required for building permit
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Prohibited uses
   
53.04   Private sewers
   
53.05   Classes of permits; fees
   
53.06   Discharge to system
   
53.07   Pre-treatment
   
53.08   Pre-treatment plans
   
53.09   Unpolluted discharge
   
53.10   Industrial cooling water
   
53.11   Data
   
53.12   Strength of discharge
   
53.13   Grease traps
   
53.14   Accidental discharge
   
53.15   Scope
   
53.16   Intentional acts
   
53.17   Inspection right
   
53.18   Rules and regulations
Rates and Charges
   
53.30   Definitions
   
53.31   Charges; user classifications
   
53.32   Collection
   
53.33   Determination of discharges
   
53.34   Basis of charges
   
53.35   Preparation, billing and collection
   
53.36   Bylaws and regulations
   
53.37   Appeal procedure
   
53.38   Special rate contracts
   
53.39   Free service prohibited
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 CONNECTION REQUIRED FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit to any individual, firm,
limited liability company or corporation for construction or placement of a
business or residential building or amenity upon property located within the
limits of the town, the person, firm, limited liability company or corporation
shall be required to obtain a permit from the Clerk/Treasurer to connect to the
town's wastewater collection and treatment system.
   (B)   The enforcement officer shall not be authorized to issue any request
for a building permit in the town without the prior issuance of a permit as
required hereunder.
   (C)   The President of the Town Council and the Clerk/Treasurer are
specifically authorized to do and perform any and all activities which may be
necessary and appropriate to accomplish the purposes of this section.
   (D)   This section shall not be deemed to have revoked, modified or amended
in any respect the provisions of any use ordinance governing the use of the
wastewater collection and treatment system of the town, it being and intended
that this section be deemed supplemental and in aid of the provisions of all
other applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 8-10-98-2, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (or BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/
l utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures with nitrification inhibition in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.)
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm waste or other
clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat the pollutants, and in fact
does remove the pollutants to a substantial degree. The term "substantial
degree" is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered COMPATIBLE include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compound; and
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, so that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from
storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface run-off,
street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include and is distinguished
from, infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under 42 U.S.C. §§ 300f et seq.; or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   NH3N. The same as AMMONIA NITROGEN MEASURED AS NITROGEN. The laboratory
determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
Standard Methods, as defined herein.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in §
53.30.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   P (or PHOSPHORUS). The chemical element Phosphorus.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, limited
liability company, trust, estate, corporation, group or other entity.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including polluted
cooling water). The three most common types of sewage are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer;
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid- and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water); and
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid- and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours'
concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 53.03 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm waters, surface water, ground
water, roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility.
   (C)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use the sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made to any sanitary or
storm sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift
stations, force mains, and the sewage treatment plant including capacity for
BOD and suspended solids.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluter waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (G)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary sewer of the town is hereby required at his or her expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect the facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to do so; provided
that, the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 PRIVATE SEWERS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
53.03(G), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $15 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of
notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 CLASSES OF PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In
either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special
form furnished by the town. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the
judgement of the Inspector.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fees of $15 for residential or commercial
building sewer permit and $25 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the Clerk/Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall he borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and Y.P.C. Manual of Practice No. FD-S shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof down spouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
in No. FD-5. All connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installations.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Inspector or his or her representative. The applicant shall provide access to
all structures (and areas of structures) to the Inspector for the purpose of
establishing compliance with division (H) above.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 DISCHARGE TO SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic (as described in § 307A of
the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)) or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any treatment
process;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5;
      (8)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs", as defined herein.
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to a degree that the sewage treatment effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (B)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (A) above, and which in
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent
may:
         (a)   Require any industries to submit information on wastewater
quantities and characteristics and obtain prior approval for discharges;
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of wastes to within the limits or normal
sewage as defined; and
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of wastes so upon the
sewage works.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   (D)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Agents of the town, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties at
all reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing.
   (E)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole, except for applications for NPDES permits and
report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA (40 C.F.R. part 136). In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken.
   (F)   No statements contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by the
industrial concern, at rates as are compatible with the rate ordinance.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 PRE-TREATMENT.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S.
EPA) (40 C.F.R. part 403), and Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for
Analysis of Pollutants (40 C.F.R. part 136), in addition to any more stringent
requirements established by the town and any subsequent state or federal
guidelines and rules and regulations.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 PRE-TREATMENT PLANS.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of the facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted. Where the facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to
determine that the facilities are being operated in conformance with applicable
federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain operating
records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary report of the character
of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 UNPOLLUTED DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town.
   (B)   Where a storm sewer is not available, discharge may be to a natural
outlet approved by the town and by the state.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10 INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pre-treated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
53.09.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 DATA.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows and characteristics.
The measurements, tests and analysis shall be made at the users' expense. If
made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the town.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 53.12 STRENGTH OF DISCHARGE.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined for periodic establishment
of charges provided for §§
53.30 through
53.39, from samples taken at the aforementioned structure at any period of time
and of a duration and in a manner as the town may elect or at any place
mutually agreed upon between the user and the town. Appropriate charges for
sampling and analysis may be assessed to the user at the option of the town.
The results of routine sampling and analysis by the user may also be used, for
determination of charges after verification by the town.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 53.13 GREASE TRAPS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients; except that, the interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, be
gas-tight, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers. Where
installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained
by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.14 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.15 SCOPE.
   All provisions of this subchapter and limits set herein shall comply with
any applicable state and/or federal requirements now or projected to be in
effect.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 53.16 INTENTIONAL ACTS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.17 INSPECTION RIGHT.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. The Superintendent or his or her representative
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
53.06(E).
   (C)   (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.18 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approved by the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator of the
sewage system to the Town Council and that any decision concerning sewage
system of the Town Council may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction
under the appeal procedures provided for in the State Administrative
Adjudication Act, being I.C. 4-21.5-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 7-11-05-2, passed 8-8-2005)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The same meaning as defined in §
53.02.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Milan, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of "normal
domestic sewage".
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NH3 (or AMMONIA). The same meaning as defined in §
53.02.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD: not more than 250 mg/l; and
         (b)   S.S.: not more than 250 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. The same
meaning as defined in §
53.02.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, necessary
to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on a
continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   P (or PHOSPHORUS). The same meaning as defined in §
53.02.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.
   S.S. (or SUSPENDED SOLIDS). The same meaning as defined in §
53.02.
   SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in §
53.02.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   TOWN. The Town of Milan acting by and through the Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works pursuant to 33 U.S.C. §
1284.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental in the user
charge system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which, based on a determination by the town
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
(Ord. 1-14-02-1, passed 1-12-2002)
§ 53.31 CHARGES; USER CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Every person whose premises are served by the sewage works shall be charged
for the services provided. These charges are established for each user class,
as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user and
user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works in
terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (A)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are recovered
through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected service
life of the sewage works equipment.
   (B)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purposes
of this subchapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential;
      (2)   Commercial;
      (3)   Governmental;
      (4)   Institutional; and
      (5)   Industrial.
(Ord. 1-14-02-1, passed 1-12-2002)
§ 53.32 COLLECTION.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town's sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of
the town. The rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
   (A)   Metered water users.
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to the rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge,
except as herein otherwise provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting
the charges for sewage service, the water meters shall be read monthly (or
period equaling a month).
      (2)   The water usage schedule on which the amount of the rates and
charges shall be determined is as follows.
         (a)   Metered rates per 1,000.
 
First 3,000 gallons $11.10
Next 3,000 gallons  $9.73
Next 4,000 gallons  $8.71
Next 10,000 gallons $7.71
Over 20,000 gallons $6.38
 
         (b)   Metered user minimum.
 
Residential   $35.47
Commercial    $40.21
Institutional $193.94
School        $886.82
 
         (c)   Reconnection fee. $100.
         (d)   Tap and capacity fees. Tap and capacity fees shall be the
greater of $1,500, or the actual cost to the town for one single-family
residence. Tap and capacity fees for multi-family, commercial and industrial
connections shall be the greater of $2,500, or the actual cost to the town. The
town shall include its man hours, plus 30% thereof, for its labor and actual
costs for materials, machine hire and non-employee tabor.
         (e)   Non-recurring charges.
 
Forfeited discounts 10% on the balance due
 
         (f)   Customer deposit. For new customers and existing customers who
are late more than two times in 12 months.)
 
Sewer deposit $100.00
 
   (B)   Unmetered rates. For users of the sewage works that are unmetered
water users or accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge
shall be determined as an average of single-family dwelling units, except as
herein provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or
period equaling a month). The rate shall include a base rate as listed above,
plus an estimated treatment charge as outlined on the schedule of rates and
charges as follows.
      (1)   Residential. $43.00 per month
      (2)   Unmetered non-residential. Single-family dwelling units shall be
charged a rate to be determined by the Town Council on an individual basis by
applying the above metered rates to estimated usage and meter size.
   (C)   Town subject to same rates. For the service rendered to the town, the
town shall be subject to the same rates and charges herein above provided, or
to charges and rates established in harmony therewith.
   (D)   Cost of monitoring.
      (1)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the
town shall charge the user the actual cost of monitoring but not less than $25
per sample.
      (2)   This charge will be reviewed and revised on the same basis as all
other rates and charges in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-14-02-1, passed 1-12-2002; Ord. 7-13-2015-2, passed 9-14-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Bad debt policies and procedures, see §
32.06
§ 53.33 DETERMINATION OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in a manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and the
sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates, except as is
hereinafter provided in this section. The town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that the
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewerage system.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the town then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall, at his
or her expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring
devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the
town for determining of sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids in the town's
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested parties shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings
served through the single water meter.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewerage system either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
   (F)   In the event two or more dwelling units, such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms, discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town's sanitary sewerage system, either directly or
indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a
single water meter; then in that case, billing shall be for a single service in
the manner set out elsewhere herein. A dwelling unit shall, be interpreted as a
room or rooms or any other space or spaces in which cooking facilities are
provided.
(Ord. 1-14-02-1, passed 1-12-2002)
§ 53.34 BASIS OF CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may reflect the costs of providing
service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not only on the
volume, but also the strength and character of the stronger than normal
domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of. The
town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all sewage
and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewage
system, in a manner and by a method as the town may deem practicable in order
to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central sampling point
available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 250 mg/l of fluid; suspended solids in excess of 250 mg/l of
fluid. Additional charges for treating stronger than normal domestic waste
shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of 39 cents per pound of suspended solids for suspended
solids received in excess of 250 mg/l of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.39 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
250 mg/l of fluid. The determination of suspended solids and five-day
biochemical oxygen demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with
the latest copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and
Industrial Wastes, as written by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation,
and in conference with Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants, Regulation C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal Register on
10-16-1973.
(Ord. 1-14-02-1, passed 1-12-2002)
§ 53.35 PREPARATION, BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   The rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town in
the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly and at the end of each year each user shall be given notice, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rates charged for operation,
maintenance and replacement for that user for the next year.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
the billing shall, in no way, relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by the tenant or tenants; provided that, the examination shall
be made at the office at which the records are kept and during the hours that
the office is open for business.
   (C)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which the rates or
charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the
bill.
(Ord. 1-14-02-1, passed 1-12-2002)
§ 53.36 BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   The town shall make and enforce bylaws and regulations as may be deemed
necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the town's
sewerage system, pumping stations and sewage conveyance system, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage system,
and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of the rates and
charges. The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town's sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
issued to the town.
(Ord. 1-14-02-1, passed 1-12-2002)
§ 53.37 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval of the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Administrator of the
user charge to the Town Council and that any decision concerning user charges
of the Town Council may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction under
the appeal procedures provided for in the State Administrative Adjudication
Act, being I.C. 4-21.5-3-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1-14-02-1, passed 1-12-2002)
§ 53.38 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable cost to
the sewage works can be determined, and the rate shall be limited to the costs.
   (B)   The contract shall be in compliance with 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
(Ord. 1-14-02-1, passed 1-12-2002)
§ 53.39 FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Council shall not grant free service or use of the sewage
treatment system to any person, group or entity.
   (B)   It is not necessary for an area or parcel of real estate to be annexed
to the town to receive sewage treatment.
(Ord. 1-14-02-1, passed 1-12-2002)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
53.02 through
53.18, except §
53.16, shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently case all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation (other than a violation
of §
53.03(B)) beyond the time limit provided for herein shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not
exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which any violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
53.02 through
53.18 shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the town by reason of the violation.
      (4)   (a)   Any person violating or suspected of violating §
53.03(B) shall be subjected to a penalty of $50 per month (or fraction thereof
in which the violation occurs).
         (b)   A person may avoid payment of the penalty by consenting to an
inspection described in §
53.05(J) for the purpose of establishing compliance with §
53.03(B).
         (c)   A person consenting to an inspection and found in violation
shall be given 90 days to comply with §
53.03(B) without being to subject penalty.
(Ord. 7-11-05-3, passed 9-12-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
         
71.   TOY AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
         
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
Section
Traffic Provisions
   
70.01   Speed limits
   
70.02   Motorized carts
Parking Provisions
   
70.15   Commercial vehicle and semi-trailer parking
 
   
70.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   Unless otherwise posted, the maximum speed limit for all vehicular traffic
on the streets and thoroughfares within the town limits shall be 25 mph.
(Ord. 8-8-05-1, passed 9-12-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 MOTORIZED CARTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTORIZED CART.
         (a)   A conveyance that is:
            1.   Motor driven, either by gas or electricity;
            2.   Used to carry passengers or equipment; and
            3.   Smaller than the types of motor vehicles required to be
registered by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles such as a:
               a.    Passenger motor vehicle (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-123);
               b.    Recreational vehicle (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-150); or
               c.   Truck (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-188).
         (b)   A motorized cart may be characterized as a golf cart, utility
cart, or similar form of motor vehicle.
         (c)   The term does not include:
            1.   An electric personal assistive mobility device (as defined in
I.C. 9-13-2-49.3);
            2.   A motorcycle (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-108);
            3.   A motor scooter (as defined in IC 9-13-2-104);
            4.   A motorized bicycle (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-109); or
            5.   An off-road vehicle (as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185).
   (B)   Operations and limitation.
      (1)   Motorized carts may be operated within the corporate limits of
Milan by those persons who have a valid motor vehicle drivers license or are at
least 16 years of age and 180 days and hold a valid Indiana ID card.
      (2)   No person whose driving privileges are suspended for the commission
of a crime (including operating while intoxicated) shall be permitted to
operate a motorized cart on any public street within the corporate limits of
the town.
      (3)   All operators of motorized carts shall abide by all traffic
regulations applicable to vehicular traffic and shall only traverse public
highways as defined in I.C. 9-25-2-4 (a street, an alley, a road, a highway, or
a thoroughfare in Indiana, including a privately owned business parking lot and
drive that is used by the public or open to use by the public).
      (4)   Motorized carts shall not be operated on sidewalks or in the town
park other than in parking areas or recognized vehicle traffic areas.
      (5)   Motorized carts may not traverse streets and highways under the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Department of Transportation. Motorized carts may
cross these streets to access other streets at street intersections only. The
specific streets and highways referenced include Indiana 101 and Indiana 350.
Crossings must be made at a right angle.
      (6)   Motorized carts shall be operated only if such carts are equipped
with functional headlights, taillights, windshield, and a brake light, turn
signals, and seat belts.
      (7)   Any children under eight years of age must be properly restrained
in a child safety seat or booster seat according to the child restraint system
manufacturers instructions under the same terms and conditions as Indiana’s
Child Restraint Laws for Motor Vehicles (I.C. 9-19-11 et. seq.). All other
passengers are required to wear seatbelts.
      (8)   No motorized cart shall be permitted to carry more occupants than
designed by the manufacturer.
   (C)   Slow moving vehicle emblem. Before any motorized cart may be operated
within the corporate limits of Milan, the cart must have affixed thereto a
"Slow Moving Vehicle" emblem as required by I.C. 9-21-9-2. The emblem shall
conform with those standards and specifications adopted for slow-moving
vehicles, in the approximate horizontal geometric center of the vehicle, at a
height of three to five feet above the roadway and shall be maintained at all
times in a clean and reflective condition.
   (D)   Registration. Before any motorized cart may be operated within the
corporate limits of Milan, the cart must be registered, inspected, and receive
a decal from the Police Department signifying the registration process has been
properly completed. A person desiring to register a motorized cart shall bring
documentation (including but not limited to bills of sale or DNR registrations)
setting forth a description of said cart to the Police Department and complete
an application for the registration of said cart. Upon completion of the
application, passage of the inspections as to the safety of the cart and all
required equipment functioning to the approval of the Police Department, and
the payment of a registration fee of $30, a decal will be issued to the
applicant. This decal will be applied to the designated areas of the Slow
Moving Vehicle Sign. The decal, when issued, shall be non-transferable from the
cart for which it is issued. The registration shall be effective for one
calendar year. Carts must be re-registered each year on or before December 31
for the ensuing year. There will be no prorating of the registration fee. If a
cart is sold, the new owners must register the cart at a cost of $30 before it
can be operated within the town limits.
   (E)   Liability insurance coverage. Each person operating a motorized cart
shall show proof of financial responsibility as outlined in I.C.-9-25-2-3.
   (F)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall apply to any self-propelled vehicle.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall apply to motorized carts operated by
the Town of Milan or carts being operated for special events with permission of
the Town Board or the Chief of Police.
   (G)   Enforcement. The Police Department shall be charged with enforcement
of this section.
(Ord. 4-11-11-1, passed - -2011; Ord. 6-12-17-1, passed 6-12-2017) Penalty, see
§
70.99
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 9-13-2-104 and 9-13-2-109 were repealed     by P.L.221-2014, Sec. 10.
PARKING PROVISIONS
§ 70.15 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE AND SEMI-TRAILER PARKING.
   (A)   All trucks or other commercial vehicles operating with a gross weight
of 20,000 pounds or more are prohibited from operating on Carr Street from 430
East Carr Street to 813 East Carr Street.
   (B)   Trucks or commercial vehicles with a gross weight of 20,000 pounds or
more are prohibited from operating or parking on all other streets and alleys
located in the town, except for the purpose of making local deliveries.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon the later of its
adoption and the erection and maintenance of signs at each end of the street or
part thereof for which the weight restrictions are applicable.
(Ord. 4-8-97-2, passed 4-8-1997; Ord. 6-13-16-01, passed 7-11-2016) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   ((A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   All fines and penalties heretofore adopted by the town shall be
imposed upon the violation of any of the provisions of §
70.01.
   (C)   (1)   Any motorized cart operating within the town limits without the
proper registration or in violation of §
70.02 shall be towed and impounded at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of §
70.02 shall be punished by a fine for the first offense of not less than $50;
for the second offense, not less than $100. If a third offense is committed
within one year of the conviction of the second offense, the minimum fine shall
be $300 and the owner’s registration shall be revoked. If a registration is
revoked, the owner shall pay a re- registration fee of $300.
      (3)   Any further violation of §
70.02 may be subject to a fine as set forth in this section and subject to
prosecution in a Ripley County Court of Law.
   (D)   Any violation of §
70.15 may be punishable by a fine up to $50.
(Ord. 4-8-97-2, passed 4-8-1997; Ord. 8-8-05-1, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 4-11-11-
1, passed - -2011)
CHAPTER 71: TOY AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Riding on handlebars, frames or tanks
   
71.02   Riding upon streets, sidewalks and walkways
   
71.03   Application of regulations
   
71.04   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
71.05   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
71.06   Riding on bicycles
   
71.07   Riding on streets
   
71.08   Speed
   
71.09   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
71.10   Carrying articles
   
71.11   Parking
   
71.12   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.13   Required bicycle equipment
   
71.14   Use of helmets
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 RIDING ON HANDLEBARS, FRAMES OR TANKS.
   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall not carry
any person upon the handlebars, frames or tank of his or her vehicle, nor shall
any person so ride upon that vehicle.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 RIDING UPON STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND WALKWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle, skateboard, roller skates/roller-
blades or coaster upon any sidewalk or walkway within the town. Exceptions to
this provision include tricycles for infants, strollers and wheelchairs; all of
which may be ridden on sidewalks or walkways within the town's corporate
limits. No person shall operate a skateboard, scooter, skates or bicycle so as
to endanger any pedestrian on any public way or in a manner as might discourage
any pedestrian from the peaceful use of the public ways or in a manner as to
interrupt the smooth flow of automobile traffic.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to certified law enforcement officers
who, in the course of their duties, shall be required to ride bicycles on the
sidewalks and walkways of the town.
   (C)   The Town Marshal is authorized to erect signs on any roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, and when the signs
are in place no person shall disobey the same.
   (D)   No person will place a skateboard ramp or similar device used for
skateboards upon any public streets or alleys or within designated rights-of-
way of the streets and alleys.
   (E)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk in a non-
restricted area, the person, before overtaking and passing a blind person
carrying a white or metallic cane, shall dismount and overtake or pass on foot.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or lawfully permit any child or ward to violate any of the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles, or by this title applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this chapter and except as to those provisions of this
code and other laws and ordinances of the town which by their nature can have
no application.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or "U" turn is permitted, no persons operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to
make any turn, in which event, the person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 RIDING ON STREETS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable designated path for bicycles has been provided
adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the
roadway.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alley way, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handle bars.
Riding "no hands" is strictly prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall not attach the same or himself or herself to any public
conveyance or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 REQUIRED BICYCLE EQUIPMENT.
   In accordance with I.C. 9-21-11-9, it shall be unlawful to operate a bicycle
upon the streets, one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise
without a light on the front of the bicycle which shall emit a light visible
from a distance of a least 500 feet to the front and with a reflector or light
on the rear of a type approved by the Department of Motor Vehicles which shall
be visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear when directly in
front of lower beams of head lights on a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 USE OF HELMETS.
   While not mandatory, bicycle, skateboard and roller-blade operators are
encouraged to wear protective helmets; especially those operators under the age
of 16. These helmets should meet or exceed the standards set by the American
Standards Institute (AMSI), the American Society for Testing and Materials
(ASTM) or the Snell Foundation.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter may be punishable by a civil penalty of not
less than $10 and not more than $200 or by impoundment of the vehicle which was
operated in the commission of the violation for a period not to exceed 30 days
or both. Community service is considered a viable alternative at the discretion
of the courts for payment of fines.
   (B)   Proper enforcement of traffic law is as important as having good laws.
Dangerous and illegal practices that police must stop through education and
enforcement include:
      (1)   Riding without lights in the dark;
      (2)   Riding on the wrong side of the road;
      (3)   Failure to stop for traffic signals;
      (4)   Motorist intimidation and harassment; and
      (5)   Dangerous motorist errors, such as overtaking with insufficient
space, illegal turns ("right hook" and "left cross") and the like. They must
particularly discourage riding in the opposite direction as traffic on streets
and non-restricted sidewalks where busy driveways are especially hazardous.
(Ord. 10-08-07-1, passed 11-19-2007)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Street Intersection Directions Specifics Ord. No. Date Passed
Street     Intersection     Directions   Specifics  Ord. No.     Date Passed
          At Carr and                   4-way stop 8-8-94-1     8-8-1994
           Josephine Street
          At Mill Road and              4-way stop 10-14-2019-1 10-14-2019
           Shawnee Trail
East Carr  At Airport Road  East, west              9-9-97-3     9-9-1997
Street
East Carr  At Country Club  East, west              9-9-97-1     9-9-1997
Street     Drive
North Main At Carr Street   North                   2019-05-13-2 6-10-2019
Street
North Main At Mill Road     North, south            8-19-97-3    8-19-1997
Street
North Main At Ripley Street North, south            8-19-97-3    8-19-1997
Street
South Main At Ellis Street  North, south            9-9-97-2     9-9-1997
Street
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
   
II.   Handicap parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street               Location                           Ord. No.    Date Passed
E. Carr Street       No parking east of S.R. 101        0812202 4-4 10-7-2024
                     On the east side, south of its
Main Street          intersection with Carr Street to   8-8-05-1    9-12-2005
                     the intersection of Faulkner
                     Street
                     On the west side, south of its
Main Street          intersection with Faulkner Street  8-8-05-1    9-12-2005
                     to the intersection of Ellis
                     Street
                     On the west side, beginning at
Main Street          Ripley Street and continuing south 7-8-2019-1  7-8-2019
                     to Ashley Street
                     On the west side, from its
Main Street          intersection with Ripley Street to 8-8-05-1    9-12-2005
                     its intersection with Carr Street
Mill Road            No parking                         0812202 4-4 10-7-2024
                     Only 15 minute parking during
W. Carr - north side business hours allowed in front of 0812202 4-4 10-7-2024
                     Gas Company, Post Office
W. Carr - north side No parking 100' from intersection  0812202 4-4 10-7-2024
                     of W. Carr and Josephine
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. HANDICAP PARKING.
   (A)   On-street handicap parking spaces shall not be less than State of
Indiana Standards and statutes or federal ADA Title II or Title III standards.
The designated street and the number of places on a street shall be determined
by Town Council. The Street Department will place signage and paint places
clearly identifying the handicap parking spaces.
   (B)   No person shall park or stand any vehicle in a designated handicap
parking space except with a handicap place card or handicap license plate
issued by the State of Indiana or any other state of the Union Authority. A
violation of this provision is punishable by either the Indiana Code as a Class
C infraction and/or by this schedule in a fine of no less than $100.
 
Street                    Location    Ord. No.  Date Passed
West Carr                 Museum      4-11-2022 - -2022
West Car                  Post Office 4-11-2022 - -2022
West Carr                 Town Hall   4-11-2022 - -2022
West Carr and Main Street Corner      4-11-2022 - -2022
 
(Ord. 4-11-2022, passed - -2022)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
         
91.   ABANDONED, JUNKED VEHICLES
         
92.   ANIMALS
         
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
94.   FAIR HOUSING
         
95.   RENTAL REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION PROGRAM
CHAPTER 90: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Town's authority to regulate
   
90.002   Preservation of public peace and order
   
90.003   Authority to regulate air and sound
   
90.004   Authority to regulate public gatherings
   
90.005   Offenses against public health, order and decency
   
90.006   Obscene material
   
90.007   Littering prohibited
   
90.008   Barbed wire and electric fences prohibited
   
90.009   Damage to streets and public property prohibited
   
90.010   Handbills and advertising restricted
   
90.011   Posting of signs on trees and poles prohibited
   
90.012   Obstruction of streets and sidewalks by overhanging trees or shrubs
prohibited
   
90.013   Erection of poles and wires prohibited without permit
   
90.014   Height regulations for awnings
   
90.015   Games on streets prohibited
   
90.016   Display of goods for sale on public property prohibited
   
90.017   Drain obstruction prohibited
   
90.018   Cleaning sidewalks of debris required
   
90.019   Burning on streets or sidewalks prohibited
   
90.020   Planting and removal of trees and shrub regulations
Public Nuisances
   
90.035   Public nuisances prohibited
   
90.036   Public nuisances defined
   
90.037   Public health nuisances
   
90.038   Public nuisances offending morals and decency
   
90.039   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
90.040   Abatement of public nuisances
Removal of Weeds, Debris and Other Rank Vegetation
   
90.055   Definitions
   
90.056   Violation
   
90.057   Requirement to cut
   
90.058   Violation notice
   
90.059   Appeal
   
90.060   Town to abate
   
90.061   Appeal of costs
   
90.062   Failure to pay
   
90.063   Time of appeals
Open Burning
   
90.075   Definitions
   
90.076   General limitations on burning
   
90.077   Town not liable for damage
 
   
90.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned, Junk Vehicles, see
Ch. 91
   Animals, see
Ch. 92
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 TOWN'S AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   The town may regulate the conduct or use or possession of property which
might endanger the public health, safety or welfare of its citizens.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation and control of conduct and property for reasons of public health,
safety and welfare authorized, see I.C. 36-8-2-4
§ 90.002 PRESERVATION OF PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER.
   The town may establish, maintain and operate a police and law enforcement
system to preserve public peace and order and may provide facilities and
equipment for that system.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to preserve public peace and order, see I.C. 36-8-2-2
§ 90.003 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE AIR AND SOUND.
   The town may regulate the introduction of any substance or odor into the air
or any generation of sound.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of air and sound, see I.C. 36-8-2-8
§ 90.004 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE PUBLIC GATHERINGS.
   The town may regulate public gatherings, such as shows, demonstrations,
fairs, conventions, sporting events and exhibitions.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of public gatherings, see I.C. 36-8-2-9
§ 90.005 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH, ORDER AND DECENCY.
   All offenses against public health, order or decency not addressed by this
chapter shall be governed by applicable state statute.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Additional regulations, see I.C. 35-45-1-1 et seq.
§ 90.006 OBSCENE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post in any conspicuous or public
place within the town any obscene, lewd, indecent or lascivious drawing,
photograph or picture of an indecent or immoral nature, as defined in I.C. 35-
49-2-1.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Matters or performances harmful to minors, see I.C. 35-49-2-2
   Obscene matters or performances, see I.C. 35-49-2-1
§ 90.007 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw or place, deposit, or blow any rubbish, litter or any
refuse matter or any foreign matter of any kind in any street, sidewalk, alley
or public place in the town. This includes any yard waste, leaves, twigs,
weeds, yard clippings, landscape clippings, yard refuse or like materials. No
person shall haul on any street or alley any rubbish, ashes, earth, sand, stone
or other material liable to become scattered on the streets, except in a
vehicle provided with a closed or open box well closed on the side so as to
retain the materials. No person shall scatter any materials from any vehicle
upon any street or alley.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 2019-5-13, passed 6-10-2019) Penalty,
see §
90.999
§ 90.008 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or in part
of barbed wire or similar material designed to cause injury to persons, or any
wire charged with electric current, within three feet of any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public way or place, except in an agricultural district.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Fence regulations, see I.C. 32-26-1 et seq.
§ 90.009 DAMAGE TO STREETS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deface, injure or remove any part of any sidewalk, street or
alley pavement, or any street sign, lamp post, gutter, curb, drain, sewer,
culvert, tree or any other appurtenance in any street, unless authorized so to
do by the town.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.010 HANDBILLS AND ADVERTISING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in or upon any public street or
right-of-way, sidewalk, alley or other public place in the town to display any
banner, placard, advertisement or handbill, and to use the same to promote any
private purpose, or for thereby soliciting any business.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to temporary lawful and harmless displays
for meetings, charities, church suppers and the like, or when a permit
therefore has been issued by the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.011 POSTING OF SIGNS ON TREES AND POLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree,
pole or shrub in any street or public place, or anywhere within the public
right-of-way of any street or on any public property.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit traffic and street signs posted by
proper authorization.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.012 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS BY OVERHANGING TREES OR SHRUBS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the town so as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel shall be
trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on which the
tree or shrub grows so as to remove the obstruction. Traffic vision shall be
made to conform to the subdivision and zoning regulations of the town.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which is likely to fall on or across any
street, sidewalk or other public place shall be removed by the owner of the
premises on which the tree stands.
   (C)   The town may trim or remove any tree or shrub which obstructs or
endangers traffic or travel on any street, sidewalk or other public place or
any subsurface utility provided for public use.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.013 ERECTION OF POLES AND WIRES PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   No person shall erect or maintain any poles or wires on or over any street,
alley or other public way without a permit issued by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.014 HEIGHT REGULATIONS FOR AWNINGS.
   No person shall erect or maintain any awning over any sidewalk unless all
parts of the awning are at least seven feet above the surface of the sidewalk.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.015 GAMES ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall play any game upon any street.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.016 DISPLAY OF GOODS FOR SALE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall use any street, sidewalk or other public place for the
display or sale of goods or merchandise, or write or affix any signs or
advertisements on any pavement.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.017 DRAIN OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall obstruct any gutter or drain in any street.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.018 CLEANING SIDEWALKS OF DEBRIS REQUIRED.
   The occupant, or the owner where there is no occupant, of the property
adjoining any public sidewalk shall keep the sidewalk free of debris and any
foreign matter.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.019 BURNING ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or
other substances upon any of the public streets or sidewalks within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.020 PLANTING AND REMOVAL OF TREES AND SHRUB REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Within the town, no person shall plant trees between the street and
the sidewalk and/or property line unless they are in compliance with
regulations, rules and specifications adopted by the town.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of the dominant real estate adjacent to
the area between the street and the sidewalk and/or property line on which any
removal of the tree or shrub is planted shall comply with the rules and
regulations adopted by the town.
   (C)   If any tree or shrub planted pursuant to this section shall, in the
opinion of the town, create a hazardous obstruction to vision which may
endanger vehicular or pedestrian traffic, then the tree or shrub shall be
appropriately trimmed or removed pursuant to the rules adopted by the town.
   (D)   If any tree or shrub planted pursuant to this section shall cause
damage to any street, curb or sidewalk, then the tree or shrub causing the
damage shall be removed and the damage repaired by the dominant land owner or
person in control as set forth by the town.
   (E)   The town and all public utilities retain their ownership and right to
access to the area between the street and the property line of the dominant
owner and retain the right to reasonably remove any tree or shrub impeding
necessary work to be performed by the town and/or all public utilities, or
other properly authorized users.
   (F)   Public utilities are not exempt from the responsibility for the
replacement of street trees which must be removed due to construction and
maintenance unless otherwise directed by the town.
   (G)   Public utilities may trim street tree roots and branches as necessary
for the maintenance of utility service as prescribed by state law and the rules
and regulations adopted by the Street Tree Committee. The cost of the tree care
is the responsibility of the affected utility.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 90.035 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain or permit
to exist any public nuisance within the town.
   (B)   An agricultural operation or any of its appurtenances is not and does
not become a nuisance, private or public, by any changed conditions in the
vicinity of the locality after the agricultural operation has been in operation
continuously for more than one year if there is no significant change in the
hours of operation, there is no significant change in the types of operation,
and the operation would not have been a nuisance at the time the agricultural
operation began on that locality.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.036 PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   A PUBLIC NUISANCE is a thing, act, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for a length of time as to:
   (A)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose or
safety of the public;
   (B)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
   (C)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency;
   (D)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water or other public way; and/or
   (E)   Is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the full use of property, so as essentially to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 90.037 PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
specifically declared to be public health nuisances, but shall not be construed
to exclude other health nuisances coming within the definition hereof:
   (A)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink sold
or offered for sale to the public;
   (B)   Carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not buried or otherwise disposed
of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
   (C)   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish,
rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, junk vehicles, scrap metal or any
material in which flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats or other
vermin may breed, or may be a fire hazard;
   (D)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or other insects can
multiply;
   (E)   Garbage cans which are not fly-tight or not kept clean;
   (F)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases, fly
ash or industrial dust within the town limits in quantities as to endanger the
health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or to threaten or cause substantial
injury to property;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, river, lake,
canal or body of water by sewage, creamery or industrial wastes or other
substances;
   (H)   Any use of property, substances or things within the town emitting or
causing foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious or disagreeable odors,
effluvia or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of ordinary
persons which annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the health or any
appreciable number of persons within the town or any slaughter house;
   (I)   All abandoned wells not securely covered or secured from public use;
   (J)   All noxious weeds;
   (K)   Any accumulation of junk, rubbish, scrap metal, automotive parts,
building materials, machinery, dead trees, or parts thereof, upon any real
estate; and
   (L)   Any structure used for the collection or deposit of trash or garbage
that has an open door allowing access into the structure, except when the door
is open to allow the structure to be used for the deposit or removal of trash
or garbage, or to allow the structure to be cleaned or repaired; and
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 7-10-17-3, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 5-9-
2022, passed 8-15-1022; Ord. 10072024-1, passed 10-7-2024) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038 PUBLIC NUISANCES OFFENDING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   (A)   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
specifically declared to be public nuisances offending public morals and
decency, but the enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances
offending public morals and decency coming within the definition hereof:
      (1)   All disorderly houses, bawdy houses, houses of ill fame, gambling
houses and buildings or structures kept or resorted to for the purpose of
prostitution, promiscuous sexual intercourse or gambling;
      (2)   All gambling devices and slot machines;
      (3)   All places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages
are sold, possessed, stored, brewed, bottled, manufactured or rectified without
a permit or license as provided for by this code or state law;
      (4)   Any place or premises within the town where town ordinances or
state laws relating to public health, safety, peace, morals or welfare are
openly, continuously, repeatedly and intentionally violated; and
      (5)   Any place or premises resorted to for the purpose of drinking
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages in violation of the laws of the
state or the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Public nuisances offending morals and decency shall also mean:
      (1)   Any place in or upon which prostitution (as described in I.C. 35-
45-4);
      (2)   Any public place in or upon which deviate sexual conduct (as
defined in I.C. 35-41-1) or sexual intercourse (as defined in I.C. 35-41-1); or
      (3)   Any public place in or upon which the fondling of the genitals of a
person; is conducted, permitted, continued or exists, and the personal property
and contents used in conducting and maintaining the place for such a purpose.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Actions for indecent nuisances, see I.C. 32-30-7-1
§ 90.039 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are declared to
be public nuisances affecting peace and safety, but the enumeration shall not
be construed to exclude other nuisances affecting public peace or safety coming
within the provisions of this section:
   (A)   All buildings erected, repaired or altered within the town in
violation of the provisions of the ordinances of the town, county or state,
relating to materials and manner of construction of buildings and structures;
   (B)   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings or devices which purport to
be or may be mistaken as official traffic control devices placed or maintained
upon or in view of any public highway or railway crossing;
   (C)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons driving vehicles on public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a
clear view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk;
   (D)   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk less than
eight feet above the surface thereof or less than ten feet above the surface of
a public street;
   (E)   All use of display of fireworks, except as provided by the laws of the
state and ordinances of the town;
   (F)   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated or out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human use; or shall be
an invitation to children and endanger the lives of the children, or which,
because of its condition has become a fire hazard;
   (G)   All wires over streets, alleys or public grounds which are strung less
than 15 feet above the surface of the street or ground;
   (H)   All loud and discordant noises or vibrations of any kind, except as
may be permitted under a zoning ordinance;
   (I)   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks or crosswalks and all
excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by the ordinances of the
town of which, although made in accordance with the ordinances, are kept or
maintained for an unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has
been accomplished;
   (J)   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations or unused basements
freely accessible from any public street, alley or sidewalks;
   (K)   All abandoned refrigerators, iceboxes or similar containers from which
the doors and other covers have not been removed or which are not equipped with
a device for opening from the inside by pushing only with the strength of a
small child;
   (L)   Any unauthorized or unlawful use of property abutting on a public
street, alley or sidewalk or of a public street, alley or sidewalk which causes
large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of the
streets or sidewalks;
   (M)   Any sign, marquee or awning which is in an unsafe condition, or which
overhangs any roadway, or which overhangs any sidewalks less than eight feet
above the sidewalk surface; and
   (N)   Any nuisance so defined by the Indiana Code.
   (O)   Any disassembled, non-operative, unlicensed, junked, or wrecked motor
vehicle being repaired, stored, or remaining in a public roadway, with the
exception of emergency breakdowns and repairs.
   (P)   Any violation of Chapter 91: Abandoned, Junk Vehicles may be pursued
under this chapter so long as not in conflict with I.C. 9-22-1.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 10072024-1, passed 10-7-2024)
§ 90.040 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Inspection of premises. Whenever complaint is made to the President of
the Town Council that a public nuisance exists or has existed within the town,
the President shall promptly notify the Town Manager, or some other town
official whom the President of the Town Council shall designate, who shall
forthwith inspect or cause to be inspected the premises and shall make a
written report of the findings to the President of the Town Council. Whenever
practicable, the inspection officer shall cause photographs to be made of the
premises and shall file the same in the office of the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   Summary abatement.
      (1)   Notice to owner. If the inspection officer shall determine that a
public nuisance exists on private property and that there is a great and
immediate danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals or decency, the
President of the Town Council may direct the Town Marshal or a Deputy Sheriff,
to serve a notice on the owner, or, if the owner cannot be found, on the
occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance and to post
a copy of the notice on the premises. The notice shall direct the owner,
occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance to abate or
remove the nuisance within 24 hours and shall state that unless the nuisance is
so abated, the town will cause the same to be abated and will charge the cost
thereof to the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the
same, as the case may be.
      (2)   Abatement by town. If the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided or if the owner, occupant or person causing the nuisance cannot be
found, the Town Manager, or some other town official whom the President of the
Town Council shall designate, shall cause the abatement or removal of the
public nuisance.
      (3)   Abatement by court action. If the inspecting officer shall
determine that a public nuisance exists on private premises, but that the
nature of the nuisance is not such as to threaten great and immediate danger to
the public health, safety, peace, morals or decency, he or she shall file a
written report of his or her findings with the President of the Town Council,
who shall cause an action to abate the nuisance to be commenced in the name of
the town.
   (C)   Cost of abatement. In addition to any other penalty imposed by this
chapter for the erection, contrivance, creation, continuance or maintenance of
a public nuisance, the cost of abating a public nuisance by the town shall be
collected as a debt from the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or
maintaining the nuisance, and if notice to abate the nuisance has been given to
the owner, the cost shall be assessed against the real estate as other special
taxes.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Town Attorney authorized to bring action to abate or enjoin nuisance, see
I.C. 32-30-7-7
REMOVAL OF WEEDS, DEBRIS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION
§ 90.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEBRIS. Includes the remains of something broken-down or destroyed.
   RANK VEGETATION. Those weeds and growing vegetation which is excessively
vigorous in growth, shockingly conspicuous, malodorous and/or flagrant.
   WEEDS. Any plant that is not valued where it is growing, and is of rank
growth, tends to overgrow or choke out more desirable plants and/or is listed
as a weed in the U.S. Department of Agriculture publication entitled Common
Weeds of the United States, or in any similar government publication.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 90.056 VIOLATION.
   It is a violation of this section to have weeds, rank vegetation and/or
debris on any real property located within the town's corporate limits.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.057 REQUIREMENT TO CUT.
   All owners of real property located within the town shall cut and remove
weeds and other rank vegetation growing thereon that exceeds an average height
of six inches, and shall keep their property clear of debris.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation, see I.C. 36-7-10.1-3 et seq.
§ 90.058 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   In the event of a violation of this subchapter, the Town Manager and/or his
or her designee, or an officer of the Police Department shall issue a written
notice (violation notice) to the violating landowner. The violation notice
shall identify the violation and order the landowner to correct the same within
seven calendar days from the date on which the violation notice is served on
the landowner (abatement period). Only one notice of noncompliance is required
to be given each calendar year. The town may enact any legal remedies to
correct any subsequent violations without notice. Personal service, service by
U.S. certified mail or any other manner of service recognized in the Indiana
Rules of Trial Procedure shall constitute proper service upon the landowner for
purposes of this section.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 2021-11-2, passed 12-13-2021)
§ 90.059 APPEAL.
   Any violation notice issued pursuant to this section may be appealed to the
Town Council if written notice of appeal is served on the landowner. The timely
appeal of a violation notice shall toll the abatement period pending the
issuance of a decision thereon by the Town Council.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 90.060 TOWN TO ABATE.
   If the landowner fails to timely abate each violation set forth in a
violation notice, the landowner shall be deemed to have granted permission to
the town to enter the landowner's property at any reasonable time for the
limited purpose of cutting and/or removing the debris, weeds or rank vegetation
located thereon and identified in the violation notice. In such case, the Town
Manager, or his or her designee, shall prepare a certified statement as to the
actual administrative and other costs incurred by the town in taking the
action, and serve a copy of the invoice on the landowner. The landowner shall,
within seven calendar days from the date on which the landowner is served with
the invoice (payment period), pay in full the amount stated thereon to the
Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 90.061 APPEAL OF COSTS.
   Any invoice issued pursuant to this section may be appealed to the Town
Council if written notice of appeal is served on the Clerk/Treasurer within
seven calendar days from the date on which the invoice is served on the
landowner. The timely appeal of an invoice shall toll the payment period
pending the issuance of a decision thereon by the Town Council.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 90.062 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If the landowner fails to timely pay an invoice issued pursuant to this
section, the Clerk/Treasurer shall certify to the County Auditor the amount of
the invoice, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the
certification of the same. The Auditor shall place the total amount so
certified on the tax duplicate for the property at issue, and the total amount,
including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are
collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 90.063 TIME OF APPEALS.
   The Town Council shall hear any timely requested appeal of a notice of
violation or invoice within 30 calendar days following receipt of the same, and
shall thereafter promptly issue a written decision granting or denying, in
whole or in part, the appeal. The date on which the Town Council's decision is
served on the landowner shall thereafter become the first calendar day of the
abatement period or payment period, as applicable.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
OPEN BURNING
§ 90.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTAINED FIRE. Any fire contained in an incinerator, fireplace or cooking
grill or other enclosure designed for outdoor cooking, or fireproof container.
   FIRE. Any fire set or maintained outside of a building.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, organization, association, corporation,
limited liability company, agency, firm, estate or cooperation and any other
legal or commercial entity.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. An individual 18 years or older who is not under the
influence of drugs or alcohol or suffering from any other disability which
would impair his or her ability to properly supervise a fire.
   UNCONTAINED FIRE. Any fire not included in the definition of a "contained
fire".
(Ord. 1-11-99-1, passed 9- -1998)
§ 90.076 GENERAL LIMITATIONS ON BURNING.
   (A)   Compliance with subchapter. It shall be unlawful to burn, ignite,
incinerate, maintain or permit to burn any materials whatsoever, of whatever
nature, without complying with this subchapter. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prevent fire fighting training by the Volunteer Fire Department.
   (B)   Public roads and public properties. No person shall set, start, feed,
permit to burn or maintain any fire upon any of the streets and/or rights-of-
way, sidewalks, alleys, or public grounds in the town, except where a
designated area has been set aside or reserved for this purpose and an
appropriate container has been provided to contain the fire.
   (C)   General provisions. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit indoor
cooking activities providing that reasonable safeguards are maintained. Cooking
grills may be less than 20 feet from a building providing that reasonable
safeguards are maintained.
   (D)   Special circumstances. 
      (1)   In the event that it is necessary to have an uncontained fire of a
size and/or at times other than permitted under this subchapter, special
permission must be obtained in advance from the Town Council.
      (2)   In the event any fire company is required to respond to a fire
which violates the provisions of this subchapter, a service fee may be levied
by the responding fire company.
(Ord. 1-11-99-1, passed 9- -1998) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.077 TOWN NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE.
   (A)   The town and its agents, officials and representatives shall not,
under any circumstances, be liable or responsible for damages caused to any
person or property by reason of the provisions of this subchapter, or by reason
of the conduct of any burning activity in compliance with the terms and
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The individual person or party responsible for any fire shall bear
sole liability for any damages caused as a result thereof.
(Ord. 1-11-99-1, passed 9- -1998)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of any provision of §
90.005 shall be subject to a penalty of from $100 to $500.
   (C)   Violation of any provision of §
90.020 shall be deemed an ordinance violation and any person violating the
provisions hereof shall be fined an amount not to exceed $2,500 for each
independent offense or violation.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.055 through
90.063 shall be subject to a penalty of up to $500. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any court situated in the county shall have venue and jurisdiction
for the enforcement of §§
90.055 through
90.063.
      (3)   Sections
90.055 through
90.063 supplement and do not limit any other remedy or action available in law
or in equity regarding the subject matter hereof.
      (4)   If the owner fails to pay the sum assessed for the removal and/or
cutting of the debris, weeds or rank vegetation within the time prescribed, the
Clerk/Treasurer shall file a certified copy of the statement of costs in the
Auditor's office of the county, and the Auditor shall place the amount so
claimed on the tax duplicate against the lands of the landowner affected by the
lien, and the same shall be collected as taxes disbursed to the General Fund of
the town.
   (E)   (1)   Sanctions. Any person, whether as principle or agent, who
violates §§
90.075 through
90.077 or assists or abets its violation shall be subject to a civil fine of
not less than $50, nor more than $500. Each violation shall constitute a
separate offense, for which a summary conviction may be sought.
      (2)   Equitable and other remedies. No penalty herein shall prevent the
town from enforcing §§
90.075 through
90.077 by equitable, injunctive and other remedies.
(Ord. 1-11-99-1, passed 9- -1998; Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED, JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Storage prohibited
   
91.03   Abandoned vehicles, junk cars declared public nuisances
   
91.04   Time limits
   
91.05   Removal procedures on public and private property
   
91.06   Enforcement
   
91.07   Disposing and sale of stored vehicles
   
91.08   Towing and storage charges of abandoned vehicles
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A vehicle located on public property illegally or a vehicle left
on public property continuously without being moved, for more than five days;
         (b)   A vehicle mechanically inoperable located on public property in
a manner as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian
or vehicle traffic on a public right-of-way;
         (c)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner, or person in control, of that property, for more than 15
days;
         (d)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission or differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property;
         (e)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
in I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq., if the vehicle once impounded is not claimed or
redeemed by the owner or his or her agent within 15 days of its removal; and/or
         (f)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
      JUNK. Any articles in any form composed of or consisting of any of the
following enumerated secondhand, discarded, abandoned or cast-off metals or
materials, namely, iron, brass, bronze, copper, tin, zinc, lead or any other
metals or compounds thereof, broken glass, rags, clothing, rubber, plastics and
synthetic substances and fabrics, bottles, papers, feathers or any other waste
material or any compound or by-product of the foregoing enumerated materials;
junk shall also include and mean, wrecked, abandoned or dismantled automobile
or parts thereof, for the purpose of this division, a JUNK CAR shall mean any
motor vehicle which does not bear a currently valid license plate, and is not
kept in a garage or building.
   (B)   All other terms defined in I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq., as amended, are
incorporated herein by reference thereto.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 91.02 STORAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or to allow to remain in the
open upon public or private property within the town, any disassembled and/or
non-operative and unlicensed, or junked, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicle for
a period of five days or more on public property, or a period of 15 days or
more on private property unless it is in connection with an automobile sale or
repair business.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicle regulations, see I.C. 9-22-1 et seq.
§ 91.03 ABANDONED VEHICLES, JUNK CARS DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Because of the danger of health by vermin and insects and because of
the danger of the safety of children attracted by junk or junk cars, abandoned
and junked motor vehicles are declared to be nuisances, except in lawfully
operated junk yards.
   (B)   Because of the danger to the health from vermin, the danger of
personal injury to children attracted by the vehicles, danger of fire by the
storage of gasoline and oil thereon, any abandoned, unlicensed, inoperable,
disassembled, wrecked or junked motor vehicle on any street or public property
for more than five days or upon any private property for more than 15 days,
except as hereinafter provided, is declared to be a nuisance and unlawful.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 TIME LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or allow to remain in the open
upon any public street, public property or private property within the town,
any disassembled or inoperable and unlicensed, or any junked, wrecked or
abandoned motor vehicle for a period of five days or more on the public street
or other public property, or for a period of 15 days or more on any private
property, unless it is in connection with an automotive sales or repair
enterprise, which is operated under a duly issued and exhibited store license
and is located in a properly zoned area.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 REMOVAL PROCEDURES ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Public property.
      (1)   Whenever the Town Marshal or his or her designee shall find the
vehicle placed or stored in the open upon a public highway, alley or
thoroughfare, or other public property, within the town, he or she shall issue
an order to the owner of the vehicle, if known, to remove the vehicle within
three days.
      (2)   Notice of the order shall be given to the owner, if known, in
writing, but if the owner shall be unknown, the written notice shall be placed
in plain view upon the vehicle.
      (3)   If the vehicle is not removed within three days after the notice,
the Town Marshal, or his or her designee shall cause the vehicle to be removed
by a junk or salvage yard or wrecker service, the cost and expense of the
removal by a junk or salvage yard or by a wrecker service to be paid by the
owner of the vehicle.
      (4)   Impounded vehicles shall be released either upon payment by the
owner, operator or authorized representative of same, of the fees charged for
towing and storage, or upon order of the Town Marshal or his or her designee,
or upon the order of the judge of a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (5)   The form of all notices shall be issued pursuant to the provisions
of I.C. 9-22-1-11.
   (B)   Private property.
      (1)   Whenever the Town Marshal or his or her designee shall find the
vehicle placed or stored in the open upon private property, within the town, he
shall issue an order to the owner of the vehicle, if known, or the person who
owns or controls the private property upon which the vehicle is placed or
stored according to the procedures set forth in I.C. 9-22-1-11 through 9-22-1-
14.
      (2)   Impounded vehicles shall be released either upon payment by the
owner, operator, or authorized representative of same, of the fees charged for
towing and storage, or upon order of the Town Marshal or his or her designee or
upon the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 91.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If the vehicle is not removed within three days after the notice, the
Town Marshal or his or her designee shall issue a written order of violation
hereof and enforcement shall be by the Town Attorney or his or her designee,
and appropriate action by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The form of all notices shall be issued pursuant to the provisions of
I.C. 9-22-1-11.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 91.07 DISPOSING AND SALE OF STORED VEHICLES.
   The provisions of I.C. 9-22-1-27 et seq. shall govern the disposition and
sale of stored vehicles.
   (A)   Abandoned Vehicle Fund. The Abandoned Vehicle Fund as established
herein shall be governed by the provisions of I.C. 9-22-1-30.
   (B)   Exempt vehicles. This chapter does not apply to:
      (1)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
      (2)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
      (3)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
      (4)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard; or
      (5)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12, as an antique
vehicle.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 9-18 expired 12-31-2016 by P.L.198-2016, Sec. 262.
§ 91.08 TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   An owner or lien holder who claims a vehicle impounded and declared
abandoned by the Town Police Department shall be charged a towing fee and a per
day storage fee. The storage fee shall be allowed to accumulate for a maximum
period of 60 days.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Town Council required to establish charges and means of disposition of
vehicles by ordinance, see I.C. 9-22-1-30
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is judged to have violated the provisions of this
chapter is subject to a fine of up to $500 in addition to towing and storage
charges.
   (B)   All provisions and respective civil penalties are designed for
enforcement through a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Prohibited animals generally
   
92.02   Cattle, dairy cattle and hogs prohibited
   
92.03   Poisoning dogs and cats prohibited
   
92.04   General animal care
Dangerous Animals
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Prohibition
   
92.17   Exceptions
   
92.18   Exemptions
   
92.19   Special permit required
   
92.20   Sale or transfer prohibited
   
92.21   Failure to comply
   
92.22   Notice of violation
   
92.23   Seizure and impoundment
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PROHIBITED ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain cows, swine, chickens,
horses, sheep, goats or ducks within the limits of the town in any area
consisting of less than three acres, except in an agricultural district.
   (B)   Exceptions are:
      (1)   Service animals as provided by state and federal law; and
      (2)   Emotional support animals as defined in I.C. 22-9-7-6 if an
application is submitted to the Town Clerk/Treasurer and approved by the Town
Board. The application shall contain the following:
         (a)   Name of the applicant;
         (b)   Address of the applicant;
         (c)   Address where the emotional support animal is kept if a
different location than the applicant’s address;
         (d)   Written verification from a health service provider as defined
by I.C. 22-9-7-4 that:
            1.   There is an individual at the address where the emotional
support animal is kept that is an individual with a disability;
            2.   There is a disability related need for the emotional support
animal to assist the individual; and
            3.   The emotional support animal assists the individual in
managing the individual’s disability;
         (e)   Any documentation of training that the animal has had; and
         (f)   An application processing fee of $25.
   (C)   The Town Board has 60 days in which to rule on the application.
Emotional support animals must meet all other federal, state, and local laws,
rules, and regulations. The applicant must notify the Town Board within ten
days of any changes in information provided in the application. Failure to do
so may result in the exempt status of the animal being revoked.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 2022-6-13, passed 7-11-2022) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.02 CATTLE, DAIRY CATTLE AND HOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the town any feeding lots
or barns for the stabling and feeding of any cattle, dairy cattle or hogs, for
feeding or dairying purposes; or to erect or maintain any stock pens to be used
for feeding pens or lots for cattle or hogs. All pens for these purposes are
declared a nuisance and dangerous to the public health of the citizens of the
town.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 POISONING DOGS AND CATS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, feed or make available to any
dog or cat any poison or poisoned food or other substance for the purpose of
poisoning, killing, destroying or harming the animals.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 GENERAL ANIMAL CARE.
   Every person responsible for any animal located within the town shall ensure
that the animal:
   (A)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner and is not confined so
as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in excrement;
   (B)   Has sufficient wholesome food and water which is proper and
nutritional for that species of animal;
   (C)   Has a proper and adequate structure; provided that, is kept in a
sanitary manner and that will protect the animal from all elements of the
weather and will allow the animal to stand, sit and lie down without
restriction;
   (D)   Receives proper veterinary care as necessary to treat illness, disease
and/or injury, to prevent the transmission of disease to other animals or human
beings and to promote good animal health;
   (E)   Is not beaten, cruelly treated, overloaded, overworked or otherwise
abused;
   (F)   Is not abandoned, neglected or tortured;
   (G)   Does not become a public nuisance under I.C. 15-5-9-14 or otherwise;
   (H)   Does not, unprovoked, bite, kick, butt, claw, assault, attack or
otherwise create a danger to the health and/or safety of other animals or human
beings;
   (I)   Is properly vaccinated and/or licensed as required by law;
   (J)   Is prevented from running at large on property other than private
property owned or lawfully occupied by its owner by means of a leash, chain or
other appropriate physical restraint;
   (K)   Is not left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal;
   (L)   Is not transported in the open bed of a vehicle unless confined in an
appropriate manner so as to reasonably prevent the animal from jumping or being
thrown from same; and
   (M)   Does not defecate on the property of another unless the person
responsible for the animal immediately thereafter removes or has removed from
the property as much of the feces as is reasonably possible.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 15-5-9-14 was repealed by P.L.2-2008, Sec. 83.
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mammal, amphibian, fish, reptile, or fowl of a species which
due to size, vicious nature, or other characteristics would constitute a danger
to human life or physical well-being or to other animals;
      (2)   Any animal having a known disposition or propensity to attack, bite
or injure any person or animal without provocation. Where the official records
of the Animal Control Officer, Town Clerk/Treasurer, Police Department or
Clerk/Treasurer of any court indicate that an animal has bitten or attacked any
person or animal, it shall be prima facie evidence that the animal is a
dangerous animal;
      (3)   Any animal owned or kept primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting or any animal trained or bred for fighting; and
      (4)   Any animal which is urged by its owner or keeper to attack, or
whose owner or keeper threatens to cause the animal to attack, any law
enforcement officer while the officer is engaged in the performance of official
duty and when the animal has the apparent ability to cause injury or harm to
the officer.
   OWN or KEEP. To own, keep, harbor, control, manage, possess, maintain or
have charge or custody of or provide care for.
   OWNER or KEEPER. Any person who owns or keeps a dangerous animal.
   PERSON. Includes any natural person, association, partnership, organization
or corporation.
   PIT BULL DOG. Any and all of the following dogs:
      (1)   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dogs;
      (2)   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dogs;
      (3)   The American pit bull terrier breed of dog;
      (4)   Any other breed commonly known as pit bull, pit bull dog or pit
bull terrier; or
      (5)   Dogs which have the appearance and characteristics of being
predominately of the breeds of dogs known as the Staffordshire bull terrier,
the American Staffordshire terrier or the American pit bull terrier. The
registration of a dog at any time as any of the dogs listed above shall
constitute prima facie evidence the animal is a pit bull dog.
   REGISTERED DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Including pit bull dogs, means an animal for
which a permit has been properly obtained within 30 days of the effective date
of this subchapter and in accordance with §
92.19.
(Ord. 05-14-07-1, passed - -2007)
§ 92.16 PROHIBITION.
   Except as provided in §§
92.17 and
92.18, no person shall own or keep any dangerous animal in the town.
(Ord. 05-14-07-1, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   Any person who meets any of the following exceptions shall be permitted to
own or keep an animal described in §
92.15; provided that, the person has first properly obtained a permit for the
animal as provided in §
92.19; and, provided that, an owner or keeper of a pit bull dog shall also be
required to comply with all licensing and vaccination requirements imposed by
other ordinances for dogs:
   (A)   The keeping of the animal in zoos, bona fide education or medical
institute, museum or any other place where they are kept as live specimens for
the public to view or for the purpose of instruction or study;
   (B)   The keeping of the animal for exhibition to the public by a circus,
carnival or other exhibit or show;
   (C)   The keeping of the animal in a bona fide, licensed veterinary hospital
for treatment;
   (D)   Commercial establishments possessing the animal for the purpose of
sale or display; and
   (E)   The owning or keeping of a registered pit bull dog necessitate the
following requirements.
      (1)   Leash. No person shall permit a registered dangerous animal/pit
bull dog to go outside its kennel or pen unless the animal is securely leashed
with a leash no longer than four feet in length. No person shall permit a
dangerous animal to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its
kennel or pen unless an adult person is in physical control of the leash. The
dogs may not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts or building.
      (2)   Muzzle. No person shall permit a registered dangerous animal/pit
bull dog to go outside its kennel or pen unless the animal is securely muzzled
by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent the animal from biting persons or
other animals.
      (3)   Confinement. All registered dangerous animals shall be securely
confined indoors or, if outdoors, in a securely enclosed and locked pen or
kennel, except when leashed and muzzled as above provided. The pen or kennel
shall have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All structures
used to confine registered pit bull dogs must be locked with a key lock or
combination lock when the animals are within the structure. The structure must
have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the sides of
the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet. All structures
must be adequately lighted and ventilated and kept clean in sanitary condition.
      (4)   Confinement indoors. No dangerous animal, including pit bull dogs,
may be kept on a porch, patio, or any part of a house or structure or in any
manner that would allow the dog to exit the building on its own volition. In
addition, no animal may be kept in a house or structure when the windows are
open or when screen windows or screen doors are the only obstacles preventing
the dog from exiting the structure.
      (5)   Signs. All owners or keepers of registered dangerous animals/pit
bull dogs within the town shall within 30 days of the effective date of this
subchapter display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily
readable by the public using the words "Beware of Dog". In addition, a similar
sign shall be posted on the kennel or pen of the animal.
      (6)   Special collar. All registered dangerous animals and pit bull dogs
shall be required to wear a bright orange collar at all times when not confined
indoors. The collar shall be visibly on the dog when it is in a kennel or pen
or on a leash.
      (7)   Microchipping. All registered dangerous animals and pit bull dogs
shall have an identification microchip implanted. The microchipping shall be
accomplished by a licensed veterinarian.
      (8)   Reporting requirements. All owners or keepers of registered
dangerous animals including pit bull dogs must within ten days of any of the
following incidents notify in writing the Town Clerk/Treasurer as required
hereinafter:
         (a)   The removal from the town or death of a registered dangerous
animal/pit bull dog;
         (b)   The birth of offspring to a registered pit bull dog or dangerous
animal; and
         (c)   The move of the owner or keeper or the move of a registered
dangerous animal/pit bull dog to a new location within the town limits. In that
case, the new address of the registered dangerous animal, including pit bull
dogs, and that of the owner or keeper shall also be reported to the Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
      (9)   Offspring. All offspring born of registered dangerous animals and
pit bull dogs must be removed from the town within eight weeks of the birth of
the offspring.
(Ord. 05-14-07-1, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 EXEMPTIONS.
   The prohibition of §
92.16 shall not apply to:
   (A)   The transportation of dangerous animals through the town when the
person transporting the animal has taken adequate safeguards to protect the
public and has notified Chief of Police of the proposed route of transportation
and the time thereof;
   (B)   The keeping of any dangerous animal by the town or its designees in
the enforcement of this subchapter; or
   (C)   The keeping and utilization of police-certified canine dogs that are
certified in drug interdiction, search and rescue and law enforcement.
(Ord. 05-14-07-1, passed - -2007)
§ 92.19 SPECIAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A special annual permit shall be required for owning or keeping any pit bull
dog/dangerous animal eligible for exceptions under §
92.17(E). Permits shall be issued only to adults (21 years of age+) and only to
the person who is the owner or keeper of the animal. Permits shall be granted
according to the following procedures.
   (A)   An initial application for a dangerous animal/pit bull dog permit
pursuant to this subchapter shall be made to the Town Clerk/Treasurer no later
than 30 days following the effective date of this subchapter. A permit shall be
valid for twelve months from the date of issuance. An application for a permit
shall be made for each 12-month period thereafter and shall be made prior to
the expiration of the previous 12-month period. Applications shall be made on a
form provided by the town. No permit shall be granted to any owner or keeper of
a dangerous animal including pit bull dogs who has not properly obtained a
permit within 30 days following the effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   A statement that the applicant is the owner or the keeper of the
animal;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of any other owner or keeper
of the animal;
      (4)   The address of the location where the animal will be kept;
      (5)   A description of the animal for which the permit is sought;
      (6)   An acknowledgment of receipt of a copy of this subchapter; and
      (7)   A signature by each owner or keeper of the animal.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Proof of public liability insurance in a single incident amount of
$100,000 for bodily injury to or death of any person or persons or for damages
to property owned by any persons who may result from owning or keeping a pit
bull dog. At the time of the initial application, the owner or keeper must show
proof to the Town Clerk/Treasurer of the required insurance. At the time of any
subsequent application, the owner or keeper must show proof of insurance for
the present application period and proof that there was insurance for the
present application period and proof that there was insurance coverage
throughout the period of the previous year. In the event the liability
insurance is cancelled, lapsed or for any other reason becomes non-enforceable,
the owner or keeper shall be in violation of the provisions of this subchapter;
      (2)   Two identical color photographs of the animal taken within the
previous 30 days clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal;
      (3)   Proof of microchipping; and
      (4)   A photo identification for each owner or keeper of the animal.
   (D)   Annual permit fee shall be $50 for each dangerous animal/pit bull dog.
Permit fees are not refundable.
(Ord. 05-14-07-1, passed - -2007)
§ 92.20 SALE OR TRANSFER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, give or in any other way transfer a dangerous animal/
pit bull dog to any person within the town limits.
(Ord. 05-14-07-1, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dangerous animal/pit
bull dog to fail to comply with the requirements and conditions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 05-14-07-1, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   When a possible violation of this subchapter comes to the knowledge of the
Town Police Department, the Town Manager, Town Clerk/Treasurer or members of
the Town Board, they shall forthwith cause the matter to be investigated. If,
after investigation, there are reasonable grounds to believe there has been a
violation of this subchapter, the town shall forthwith deliver written notice
to the owner or keeper of the animal that the subject of the violation
requiring the person to safely remove the animal from the town within five days
of the date of the notice. The owner or keeper shall remove the animal from the
town within the required time. A notice shall not be required when a dangerous
animal has caused serious physical harm or death to any person or has escaped
and is at large in which case town officials shall cause the animal to be
immediately seized and impounded or killed if seizure and impoundment are not
possible without risk of serious physical harm or death to any person or
animal.
(Ord. 05-14-07-1, passed - -2007)
§ 92.23 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Chief of Police/Marshal or Deputy Marshals shall forthwith cause to be
seized and impounded any dangerous animal when the owner or keeper of the
animal has failed to comply with the notice sent pursuant to §
92.22. Upon seizure and impoundment, the Chief of Police/Marshal or Deputy
Marshals shall cause a complaint to be filed in the Municipal Court against the
owner or keeper of the subject animal and the animal shall be delivered to a
place of confinement approved by the Chief of Police and kept until further
order of the Municipal Court.
(Ord. 05-14-07-1, passed - -2007)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.23 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $100 and
not more than $500. In addition, the court may order the revocation of any
permit for the subject animal and may order the removal of the animal from the
town. Should the defendant refuse to remove the dog from the town, the court
may find the defendant in contempt and order the immediate impoundment of the
animal, or continued impoundment if the animal has already been impounded, as
well as destruction of the animal. Each day that a violation of §§
92.15 through
92.23 continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing penalties, any person who violates §§
92.15 through
92.23 shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, handling, veterinary
care, witness fees and expenses necessitated by the enforcement of §§
92.15 through
92.23.
(Ord. 05-14-07-1, passed - -2007)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Hours of town park use
   
93.02   Tobacco-free zones
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 HOURS OF TOWN PARK USE.
   The town park shall be closed to the public from dusk until dawn, daily,
except to those persons going to, attending, playing or leaving from the
lighted ball fields in connection with an organized event.
(Ord. 8-13-96-2, passed 8-13-1996)
§ 93.02 TOBACCO-FREE ZONES.
   (A)   The use of any tobacco products during any youth activities in any
parks owned or operated by the town shall be prohibited within 75 feet of any
athletic field, shelter structure, concession stand, restrooms and bleachers
located in the town's public parks.
   (B)   The Town Manager is directed to acquire appropriate signs to advise
persons visiting the town's parks of this section.
(Ord. 9-13-10-02, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed upon any person found in violation of §
93.02 the sum of $50.
(Ord. 9-13-10-02, passed 9-13-2010)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
94.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Exemptions
   
94.10   Administrative enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Town Council to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, being 28 U.S.C. §§ 1360
et seq., the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 4-9-96-1, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that the person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9.5-4-1 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person;
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of the person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9-5-6.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9-5-
6(b)); nor does the term DISABILITY include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (I.C. 22-9-5-6(d)).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04 through
94.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Discrimination on the basis of familial status means
discrimination because the person is (1) pregnant; (2) domiciled with an
individual under the age of 18 years of age in regard to whom the person is (a)
the parent or legal custodian or (b) has the written permission of the parent
or legal custodian for domicile with that person; or (3) in the process of
obtaining legal custody of an individual younger than 18 years of age.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
the FAMILY being further defined herein.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(I.C.22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 4-9-96-1, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
94.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set fort in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and herein shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provision of division (C) below, nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
any one time; provided that, in the sale of the single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who
was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption
shall apply only to one sale within any 24-month period. The private individual
owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his or her
behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale
or rental of more than three single-family houses at any one time. The sale or
rental of any single-family house shall be excepted from application of this
section only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any broker, agent or salesperson or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other professional assistance
as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 4-9-96-1, passed 4-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03 and except as exempted by §
94.03(B) and §
94.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, disability, HIV-positive status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, HIV-positive status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, HIV-positive status or
national origin, or an intention to make any preference, limitation or
discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, HIV-positive status or national origin that any
dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is
in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status, HIV-positive status or national origin; and/
or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with a dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (F), discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services, when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after 9-
13-1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in a manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwelling are sufficiently wide to allow passage by disabled
persons in wheelchairs: and
            3.   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations:
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for buildings
and facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically disabled
people (commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1") suffices to satisfy the requirements
hereof.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (F) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 4-9-96-1, passed 4-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available a transaction, or in the
terms or conditions of a transaction, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, HIV- positive status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, HIV-positive
status or familial status.
(Ord. 4-9-96-1, passed 4-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership in
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of the access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, HIV-
positive status or national origin.
(Ord. 4-9-96-1, passed 4-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having exercised or enjoyed,
or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any other person in the
exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by §§
94.03 through
94.06.
(Ord. 4-9-96-1, passed 4-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, HIV-positive status or national origin and because
he is or has been selling- purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or
contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service,
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
the person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, HIV-positive status or national
origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities
described in §
94.05(A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection to participate.
(Ord. 4-9-96-1, passed 4-9-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to the persons, unless
membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
for Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil Rights Commission
determines is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons (as
defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended for occupancy by at least one person 55 years of age or
older per unit.
(Ord. 4-9-96-1, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 94.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below shall be vested in the chief executive officer of the Town
Council.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Town Council,
because of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully
administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this
chapter, herein elect to refer all formal complaints to the State Civil Rights
Commission ("Commission'") for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to
I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief executive officer of the Town Council shall refer
all complaints to the Commission as provided for under division (A) above to
the Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate
relief, as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the Town Council shall
administer their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and
urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the chief executive officer and the Commission
to further the purposes.
   (D)   The chief executive officer of the Town Council, or the chief
executive officer's designee, shall provide information on remedies available
to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting the information.
(Ord. 4-9-96-1, passed 4-9-1996)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage the citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, HIV-positive status or national
origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities
described in §
94.08(A) or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury results shall
be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than ten years, or
both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of
years or for life.
(Ord. 4-9-96-1, passed 4-9-1996)
CHAPTER 95: RENTAL REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION PROGRAM
Section
   
95.01   Title
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Safe and habitable premises
   
95.04   Annual registration
   
95.05   Inspection
 
   
95.99   Penalties for violation
§ 95.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as fhe "Rental Registration and Inspection
Program" of the Town of Milan, Indiana.
(Ord. 7-10-17-1, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter. Words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in
the plural shall include the singular.
   INSPECTION CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the Planning Department
which documents that a rental unit has passed inspection and the owner is
permitted to rent or lease the unit.
   INSPECTION OFFICERS. The following persons, working separately or together,
who shall enforce the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Town Manager or his/her designee;
      (2)   Fire Inspector, Fire Chief or other designated officer; and/or
      (3)   County health officer or his or her designee.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, living, sleeping, cooking, or having physical or
actual possession of a rental unit.
   OWNER. One or more persons in whom is vested all or part of the legal title
to property. The term includes a mortgagee or contract purchaser in possession.
   PERSON. An individual, a corporation, an association, a partnership, a
governmental entity, a trust, an estate, or any other legal or commercial
entity.
   REGISTRATION FEE. The amount paid when registering a rental unit with the
town.
   RENTAL UNIT. As used in this chapter, means:
      (1)   A structure, or the part of a structure, that is used as a home,
residence, or sleeping unit by;
         (a)   One individual who maintains a household;
         (b)   Two or more individuals who maintain a common household; or
      (2)   Any grounds, facilities, or area promised for the use of a
residential tenant, including the following:
         (a)   An apartment unit;
         (b)   A boarding house;
         (c)   A rooming house;
         (d)   A mobile home space; or
         (e)   A single- or two- or more family dwelling.
   RENTAL UNIT COMMUNITY. One or more parcels of contiguous real property upon
which are located one or more structures containing rental units, if:
      (1)   The combined total of all rental units in all of the structures is
five or more rental units; and
      (2)   The rental units are not occupied solely by the owner or the
owner's family
   UNSAFE BUILDING. A building or structure, or any part of a building or
structure, that is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to the public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance;
      (6)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance; or
      (7)   Otherwise in violation of state or town unsafe building laws.
   UNSAFE PREMISES. The tract of real estate on which an unsafe building is
located.
(Ord. 7-10-17-1, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 95.03 SAFE AND HABITABLE PREMISES.
   An owner must maintain the rental unit in a safe and habitable manner.
Accordingly, the owner must ensure that a rental unit:
   (A)   Is not in an unsafe building;
   (B)   Is in compliance with all rules, regulations, ordinances, statutes, or
other laws including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The Town of Milan unsafe building ordinance;
      (2)   The state of Indiana Unsafe Building Law;
      (3)   State and town fire code;
      (4)   State and town building code;
      (5)   National, state, and local electric code;
      (6)   Any other rule, regulation, statute, or other law relating or
pertaining to the safety or habitability of a residential or rental property.
   (C)   Is safe and habitable with respect to:
      (1)   Electrical supply and electrical systems;
      (2)   Plumbing and plumbing systems;
      (3)   Water supply, including hot water;
      (4)   Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment and systems;
      (5)   Bathroom and toilet facilities;
      (6)   Doors, windows, stairways, and hallways;
      (7)   Functioning smoke detectors; and
      (8)   The structure in which a rental unit is located.
(Ord. 7-10-17-1, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 95.04 ANNUAL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration form. The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a form for an
owner of a rental unit to complete ("registration form"). The registration form
shall require information including, but not limited to: name of owner, address
of rental unit, mailing address for owner or owner's representative, name of
tenant, e-mail address, phone number, number of units that owner rents, and
verification that the landlord will update any and all information within 30
days of any change. The Clerk-Treasurer may amend the registration form from
time to time as appropriate and/or necessary.
   (B)   Annual registration and fee. An owner of a rental unit in the town
shall complete a registration form and pay an annual $5 registration fee
("registration fee") for each parcel of real property on which a rental unit is
located. The registration form and the registration fee shall be submitted to
the town Clerk-Treasurer. The registration forms for all existing rental
properties in place the time of adoption of this chapter shall be submitted on
or before January 1, 2018. In all other cases, registration forms shall be
submitted within 30 days of the establishment of the new rental property. In
all other cases, the annual registration fee shall be due by January 1 of each
year.
   (C)   Rental unit community exception. Notwithstanding the provisions of
division (B) of this section, an owner of a rental unit community will only be
obligated to complete one registration form and to submit a single registration
fee per each rental unit community.
   (D)   Obligation to update information. The owner of a rental unit will be
required to update its registration form within 30 days of any change in
address, change in ownership, change in occupant, or any other material changes
thereto. Failure to do so will result in a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Initial registration. All current owners shall submit an initial
registration form and a registration fee for any and all existing rental units
by January 1, 2018. Thereafter, any owner shall have 30 days from obtaining
ownership in a rental unit and/or leasing a rental unit to register that rental
unit with the town and to submit the registration fee.
   (F)   Rental registration and inspection fund. The Town Council hereby
establishes a special fund which shall be known as the "Rental Registration and
Inspection Fund" dedicated solely to reimbursing the costs actually incurred by
the town relating to the registration and inspection of rental units as
provided in this chapter. All registration fees required hereunder shall be
deposited in that special fund.
(Ord. 7-10-17-1, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 95.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspections authorized. The inspection officers are authorized and
directed to make inspections to determine the condition of rental units located
within the town.
      (1)   The inspection officers are authorized to enter, examine and
survey, at all reasonable times, any and all rental units. The owner or the
owner's representative, and/or occupant of every rental unit, shall give the
inspection officer free access to such rental unit and its premises at all
reasonable times for the purpose of such inspection, examination and survey,
provided, however, that such inspection officer has, prior to entry thereof,
positively identified himself or herself as a person authorized pursuant to
this chapter to enter upon said premises. At the time of each inspection, all
pets must be controlled so that the inspection officer can move about the
dwelling and surrounding property.
      (2)   The owner or the owner's representative and the occupant shall be
entitled to 72 hours' written notice from the inspection officer prior to
conducting the inspection, examination or survey. In the event that the owner,
or the tenant if occupied, refuses to allow the inspection officer to conduct
the inspection, the inspection officer shall apply for a warrant to make the
inspection in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-16.
      (3)   This provision shall not be construed to limit or restrain the
right of the inspection officer to make an inspection of any other building or
premises pursuant to any of the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et al. or the
town's ordinances concerning unsafe buildings or unsightly premises.
   (B)   Inspection at least once every five years. Every rental unit operated
and maintained in the town shall be inspected by an inspection officer or his/
her designee at least one time every five years ("routine inspection"). The
routine inspection shall be made to ascertain that the facility conforms to all
requirements of this chapter, any other ordinance of the town, and all statutes
of the State of Indiana regarding such facilities.
   (C)   Exemption to routine inspection. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-20-4.1(c),
except as provided in division (D) of this section, the town may not conduct a
routine inspection of a rental unit or impose a fee pertaining to the
inspection of a rental unit, if the rental unit satisfies all of the following:
      (1)   The rental unit is:
         (a)   Managed by a professional real estate manager; or
         (b)   Part of a rental unit community that is managed by a
professional real estate manager.
      (2)   During the previous 12 months, the rental unit has been inspected
or is part of a rental unit community that has been inspected by either of the
following:
         (a)   By or for:
            1.   The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority, or another federal or
state agency; or
            2.   A financial institution or insurance company authorized to do
business in Indiana.
         (b)   By an inspector who:
            1.   Is a registered architect;
            2.   Is a professional engineer; or
            3.   Satisfies the qualifications of the town's Planning Department
such that the inspector would qualify as an inspection officer.
         (c)   However, the inspector may not be an employee of the owner.
      (3)   A written inspection report of the inspection under division (C)(2)
of this section has been issued to the owner of the rental unit or rental unit
community (as applicable) that verifies that the rental unit or a random sample
of the rental unit community, if the sample size complies with the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) rules for sample
size on inspection, is safe and habitable with respect to:
         (a)   Electrical supply and electrical systems;
         (b)   Plumbing and plumbing systems;
         (c)   Water supply, including hot water;
         (d)   Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment and
systems;
         (e)   Bathroom and toilet facilities;
         (f)   Doors, windows, stairways, and hallways;
         (g)   Functioning smoke detectors; and
         (h)   The structure in which a rental unit is located.
      (4)   The inspection report issued under division (C)(3) of this section
is delivered to the Town Planning Department on or before the date of the
scheduled inspection.
   (D)   Additional inspections. In addition to the routine inspection, the
town may inspect any rental unit, if the political subdivision has reason to
believe or receives a complaint that the rental unit does not comply with
applicable code requirements, so long as the town provides 72 hours' written
notice as provided in division (A)(2) of this section.
   (E)   Access. Every occupant of a rental unit shall give the owner thereof
or the owner's representative access to any part of such dwelling or rental
unit or its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making such
repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Inspection fee. For any routine inspection or additional inspection,
the town shall charge the owner of the rental unit a fee of $125 ("inspection
fee") for each building, along with an additional $25 fee for each unit.
Failure to pay the inspection fee within 30 days of receiving notice thereof
shall result in a violation of this chapter. However, in the case of a rental
unit that meets the requirements for an exemption under division (C) of this
section, the town may not impose any inspection fee pertaining to the
inspection of that rental unit.
   (G)   Inspection certificate. The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the owner
of every registered and inspected rental unit an inspection certificate as
proof that the unit passed inspection. The inspection certificate shall be
valid until the next inspection.
   (H)   Violation notice. If an inspection officer finds that a rental unit or
any part thereof fails to comply with any standard set forth in this chapter,
any other ordinance of the town of Milan, or any statute of the state of
Indiana, he or she shall give notice of the alleged violation to the owner of
the rental unit (the "violation notice"). The violation notice shall be in
writing and shall reasonably describe the violation found. The violation notice
shall further specify the date by which the violation must be corrected.
   (I)   Service of violation notice. The violation notice shall be served upon
the owner or the owner's representative, and the occupant of the rental unit.
The violation notice may be served by any of the following methods:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the violation notice by registered or certified
mail to the address of the owner and/or occupant as reflected on the
registration form;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the violation notice personally to the person
to be notified; or
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the violation notice at the address of the owner
and/or occupant as reflected on the registration form.
      (4)   In the event that service cannot be obtained by foregoing methods,
the alternate means of service described in I.C. 36-7-9-25 may be used.
   (J)   Curing violations. A rental unit that the inspection officer finds to
be unsafe or uninhabitable shall be repaired so that it meets acceptable
standards within 15 days of the violation notice. Any other violations shall be
repaired within 30 days of the violation notice. Failure to cure a violation
shall result in a violation of this chapter. The inspection officer may extend
the period for cure for good cause.
   (K)   Re-inspection. Upon termination of the applicable notice period as
provided in division (J) of this section, the town may reinspect the property
and charge an inspection fee for any and all such re-inspections.
(Ord. 7-10-17-1, passed 8-14-2017)
Editor’s note:
   Division (C)(3) above concerning exemption from inspection has been updated
to include language adopted by the Indiana Legislature in P.L. 56-2023, Sec.
329 and P.L. 236-2023, Sec. 163.
§ 95.99 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the violating
party to a fine not to exceed $500. Each day that a violation continues or
remains uncured shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 7-10-17-1, passed 8-14-2017)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Permit required; applications
   
110.02   Permit issuance; hours of operation
   
110.03   Number of solicitations per year
   
110.04   Age requirement; position
   
110.05   Clothing requirement
   
110.06   Location requirement
   
110.07   Sign requirement
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications shall only be issued to organizations with an address in
the town’s community. An application for a permit shall be submitted to the
Town Council, via the Town Marshal, Town Manager or Town Clerk/Treasurer. The
application shall be filed a minimum of 30 days prior to the date and shall
indicate the proposed times for the solicitation. A non-refundable application
fee of $25 shall be included with the application for any solicitor that is not
a charitable or religious organization from the town. In addition, the
applicant shall submit a $50 deposit for required use of the ANSI reflective
vests provided by the town as required by this chapter. The deposit for the
ANSI vests may not be waived. Upon return of the vests in satisfactory
condition, the $50 deposit shall be refunded to the applicant. The application
will not be forwarded to the Council for review without the application fee and
the refundable vest fee. These fees will be paid to the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to forwarding to the Town Council, applications for
permits shall be reviewed by the Town Marshal and the Town Manager. They shall
ensure that the application is complete and the fee has been paid to the Town
Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   Applications shall then be forwarded to the Town Council for final
review and disposition prior to the issuance of the permit.
§ 110.02 PERMIT ISSUANCE; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The permits shall be issued only for weekends, for a maximum of three
consecutive hours, and shall not begin until one hour after daylight and shall
end one hour before dark.
   (B)   (1)   Upon approval of the application by the Town Council, the Town
Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a permit for the solicitation (roadblock) in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The permit shall be present at the site of the solicitation at all
times while the solicitation is occurring.
(Ord. 06-11-07-1, passed 6-11-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 NUMBER OF SOLICITATIONS PER YEAR.
   No organization or solicitor shall be allowed to conduct more than two
solicitations of this type (roadblocks) in any one calendar year.
(Ord. 06-11-07-1, passed 6-11-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 AGE REQUIREMENT; POSITION.
   All persons soliciting contributions shall be at least 18 years of age. They
shall position themselves in places and in a manner where they do not block or
impede the flow of traffic and in no event shall any solicitor stand within the
intersection itself.
(Ord. 06-11-07-1, passed 6-11-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 CLOTHING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Every person soliciting contributions is required to wear an ANSI
reflective vest provided by the town as their outermost clothing as required
under federal standards. No more than six people shall be allowed to solicit
contributions.
   (B)   In the event this provision is violated, the applicant shall be denied
a subsequent permit for a period of one year from the date of the violation.
(Ord. 06-11-07-1, passed 6-11-2007; Ord. 11112024-1, passed 11-11-2024)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LOCATION REQUIREMENT.
   Due to traffic flow and limited site distances, no solicitations shall be
allowed in any other location than the intersection of Indiana 350 and Indiana
101.
(Ord. 06-11-07-1, passed 6-11-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 SIGN REQUIREMENT.
   All organizations or solicitors must place a two-foot by two-foot sign at
least 300 feet preceding the intersection in all four directions to warn the
drivers. The sign must have the organization's name and the purpose of the
solicitation.
(Ord. 06-11-07-1, passed 6-11-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The permit issued under the terms and conditions of this chapter may
be suspended or revoked for any violation of the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Penalties for soliciting without a permit are a $100 fine and
immediate seizure of all monies collected.
   (C)   Penalties for conviction of I.C. 35-45-17-2, § 2(C), Panhandling, a
Class C misdemeanor, are up to 60 days' imprisonment and a maximum fine of
$500.
(Ord. 06-11-07-1, passed 6-11-2007)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 35-45-17-2 was repealed by P.L.75-2021,     Sec. 9.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GRAFFITI
         
131.   NOISE
CHAPTER 130: GRAFFITI
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Violations
   
130.03   Owners
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public Health and Safety; Nuisances, see
Ch. 90
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRAFFITI.
      (1)   Markings which deface, deform, mar or which cause the defacing,
deforming or marring of any public or private property including, by way of
illustration and not limitation, buildings, trees, lampposts, poles, hydrants,
bridges, piers, sidewalks, streets and alleyways, or the surface of any public
or private property located upon any public thoroughfare or right-of-way, or
upon any public place within the town.
      (2)   However, this section shall not prohibit the posting of notices
required by law to be posted.
   OWNER. All public and private property owners in the town.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 130.02 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the appearance of graffiti on
public or private property within the limits of the town.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 OWNERS.
   (A)   Any owner or tenant shall notify the Town Police Department (the
Department) within 48 hours of the appearance of graffiti on his or her
property.
   (B)   Upon notification, the Department shall cause an inspection of the
graffiti to be made, a police report to be filed and shall begin an
investigation as the Department deems necessary and prudent. A copy of the
police report shall be forwarded to the Town Manager for purposes of
commencement of deadlines and notification requirement contained herein.
   (C)   Once an inspection has been made, the owner shall have ten business
days in which to remove or cover the graffiti.
   (D)   Non-compliance with the removal provision of this section shall occur
at the expiration of the ten business day period if the graffiti has not been
either removed or covered.
   (E)   In the event of non-compliance, the Town Manager shall issue a written
notice to the violating owner. The notice shall order the owner to correct the
non-compliance by removal and/or covering of the graffiti within five days of
receipt of notice. The notice may be served either personally on the owner or
sent by certified mail with a return receipt requested. If the owner is a non-
resident of the town, notice shall be sent to owner's last known address.
   (F)   Expenses incurred by the owner in abating the violation may be
reimbursed from the fund upon compliance with reporting procedures and removal
time frames. No reimbursement will be made if the owner does not comply with
the requirements set forth herein.
   (G)   If the owner fails to abate the violation within the time prescribed
by the notice, the owner shall be deemed to have granted permission to the
respective town official to cause a designee of the town to enter the property
for the limited purpose of covering and/or removing the graffiti.
   (H)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall make a certified statement of the actual
cost incurred by the town in the covering and/or removal, and issue a bill for
the costs, including administrative costs and removal costs, which bill shall
be delivered to the owner either by hand or by certified mail, return receipt
requested. The owner shall, within ten days of receipt or refusal of the
notice, pay the amount due at the Clerk/Treasurer's office.
   (I)   Any notice of violation or bill issued under this section may be
appealed to the Town Council if notice of appeal is given to the Clerk/
Treasurer within seven days of the owner's receipt or refusal of the notice of
violation. The Town Council shall hear any properly requested appeal at a
regularly scheduled meeting within 30 business days following receipt of the
appeal request and shall make a determination at the meeting at which it hears
the appeal or at its subsequent regularly scheduled meeting.
   (J)   If the owner fails to pay a bill issued under this section within the
time specified, the Clerk/Treasurer shall certify to the County Auditor the
amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the
certification. The Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the tax
duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount, including any
accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and
shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
   (K)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to preclude any criminal
investigation by any other law enforcement agency.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined
in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
   (B)   All fines collected pursuant to division (A) above shall be deposited
in a special fund for reimbursement to qualified owners of expenses incurred
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
CHAPTER 131: NOISE
Section
   
131.01   Prohibitions
   
131.02   Exemptions
   
131.03   Animals producing noise
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 92
   Public Health and Safety; Nuisances, see
Ch. 90
Statutory reference:
   Sound regulation authorized, see I.C. 36-8-2-8
§ 131.01 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall play, use or operate any machine or device for the producing
or reproducing of sound, including, but not limited to, loudspeakers, radios,
CD players, television sets, musical instruments, phonographs and cassette
players, nor any other machine or tool that produces sound, nor shall any
person operate any motor vehicle that contains a modified or defective exhaust
system, if the machine, tool or vehicle is located in or on any of the
following:
   (A)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way, highway,
building, sidewalk, public space, park or thoroughfare and the sound generated
therefrom is:
      (1)   Audible 40 feet or more from its source; or
      (2)   Is at a level of 90 decibels or more when measured on a dB(A) scale
from a distance of not less than six feet from its source.
   (B)   And is:
      (1)   Audible 40 feet or more outside of the private property line; or
      (2)   Is at a level of 90 decibels or more when measured on a dB(A) scale
from a distance of not less than six feet from the private property line.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
   (A)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Lawn mowers, weed blowers, garden tractors, construction and repair
equipment, go-carts and power tools, when properly muffled, between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. only;
   (C)   Burglar alarms and other warning devices when properly installed;
providing, the cause for the alarm or warning device sound is investigated and
turned off within a reasonable period of time;
   (D)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concert
performances, band and drum corps performances, and artistic performances, as
well as any rehearsals for same, and all other events authorized by the Board
of Public Works and Safety or other appropriate governmental entity;
   (E)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic or
sporting events and practices related thereto;
   (F)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency construction,
repair or other work;
   (G)   Sounds associated with the use of legal fireworks;
   (H)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established non-
transient businesses, organizations and governmental entities, when the sounds
are customary, incidental and within the normal range appropriate for the use;
   (I)   Rubbish collection utilizing any mechanical equipment between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. only;
   (J)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, and any other
applicable law, rule or regulation, those sounds associated with motor vehicles
lawfully operating on town streets;
   (K)   Sounds associated with equipment or animals lawfully utilized by
disabled persons to accommodate their disability; and/or
   (L)   Sounds associated with the operation of aircraft or snow removal
equipment.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 131.03 ANIMALS PRODUCING NOISE.
   No person shall keep any animal, other than a service animal lawfully used
by a disabled person to accommodate his or her disability, which, by causing
frequent or long-continuing noise that is audible 40 feet or more from its
source when the animal is on public property or 40 feet or more outside of a
private property line when the animal is on private property, does disturb the
comfort or repose of any other person.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of an infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than:
 
First offense                  Up to $250
Second offense                 Up to $500
Third offense                  Up to $1,000
Fourth and subsequent offenses Up to $2,500
 
   (B)   Any court of competent jurisdiction shall be the court of proper venue
and jurisdiction for the enforcement of this section.
   (C)   Citations for violation of this section may be issued by any member of
the Police Department.
(Ord. 7-11-05-1, passed 8-8-2005)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
         
151.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING
         
152.   SOIL EROSION AND CONTROL
         
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of state laws
   
150.02   Certain building conditions deemed unsafe
   
150.03   Substantial property interest
   
150.04   Unsafe Building Fund
   
150.05   Application of provisions; compliance required
   
150.06   Conditions of buildings constituting unfit for human occupancy
   
150.07   Order to vacate; time allowed to vacate
   
150.08   Written notice of violation
   
150.09   Removal or alteration of notice or placard prohibited
   
150.10   Approval required for reoccupancy
   
150.11   Requirements for vacant buildings
   
150.12   Unsecured openings to be boarded
   
150.13   Duties
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.25   Provisions for inspection authority
   
150.26   Notice of violations
   
150.27   Hearings
   
150.28   Violations
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, entitled Enforcement of Building Standards,
are hereby adopted in their entirety, incorporated by reference and made a part
hereof as if copied verbatim. These provisions are further supplemented by the
provisions of this chapter. All proceedings within the town for the inspection,
repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by I.C. 36-7-9-
1 through 36-7-9-28 and by the provisions of this chapter and any other
applicable town ordinance.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.02 CERTAIN BUILDING CONDITIONS DEEMED UNSAFE.
   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is hereby
supplemented to provide minimum standards for building conditions or
maintenance in the town, by adding the following: any building or structure
which has any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described shall
be deemed to be an unsafe building; provided that, the conditions or defects
exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety of the public or its
occupants are endangered:
   (A)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not of
sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate
means of exit in case of fire or panic;
   (B)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof, due
to all dead and live loads, is more than one times the working stress or
stresses approved for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location;
   (C)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to an extent that the structural strength or
stability thereof is materially less than it was before the catastrophe and is
less than the approved minimum requirements for new buildings of similar
structure, purpose or location;
   (D)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons or
damage property;
   (E)   Whenever any portion of a building or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses approved for the building; or whenever any portion thereof has
cracked, warped, buckled or settled to an extent that walls or other structural
portions have materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is
approved in the case of similar new construction;
   (F)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting the building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
   (G)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
   (H)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to an extent that a plumb line passing through the center of
gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the footer; this item
shall not be the sole criteria for evaluating non-inhabited accessory
structures;
   (I)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50%
damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
   (J)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons for
the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
   (K)   Whenever any building or structure that has been constructed, exists
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to the building or structure provided by the building regulations of
the County Building Department or of any law or ordinance of the state or town
relating to the condition, location or structure of buildings;
   (L)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non- supporting
part, member or portion less than 66% of the strength, fire resisting qualities
or characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics approved
by law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location;
   (M)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
residential or nonresidential purposes because of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate
light, air or sanitation facilities or otherwise is determined by the Council
or its designee to be unfit for human occupancy, to be insanitary or in a
condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
   (N)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire- resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connection
or heating apparatus or other cause is determined by the Council or its
designee to be a fire hazard; or
   (O)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute the building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.03 SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.
   The definition of "substantial property interest" contained in I.C. 36-7-9-
2 is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, including the portion of the
definition which applies to a consolidated town.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.04 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget
of the town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
   (B)   Money in the Unsafe Building Fund shall be held and distributed in
accordance with state law and pursuant to the instruction of the Town
Controller.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.05 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   These provisions shall apply to any building, dwelling or structure
that is declared by the Council or its designee as unsafe and unfit for human
occupancy.
   (B)   The designation of dwellings as unfit for human occupancy and the
procedure for the condemning and placarding of the unfit dwellings, and
maintenance of all vacant buildings shall be carried out in compliance with the
following requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.06 CONDITIONS OF BUILDINGS CONSTITUTING UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY.
   Any building, dwelling, dwelling unit rooming house or rooming unit shall be
declared by the Council or its designee unfit for human occupancy when the
following conditions exist:
   (A)   Damage, decay, dilapidation, abandonment, insanitation or vermin or
rodent infestation which constitute a serious hazard to the health or safety of
occupants or the public;
   (B)   The lack of required sanitation, illumination, ventilation, heating,
electrical, plumbing or other facilities and systems adequate to protect the
health and safety as to create a serious hazard to the occupants or the public;
and/or
   (C)   Conditions or defects described as follows:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one times the working stress or
stresses approved for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location;
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to an extent that the structural strength or
stability thereof is materially less than it was before the catastrophe and is
less than the approved minimum requirements for new buildings of similar
structure, purpose or location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons or
damage property;
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses approved for the building; or whenever any portion thereof has
cracked, warped, buckled or settled to an extent that walls or other structural
portions have materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is
approved in the case of similar new construction;
      (6)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting the building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (8)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the footer; this item
shall not be the sole criteria for evaluating non-inhabited accessory
structures;
      (9)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (10)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as
to become an attractive nuisance to children, or freely accessible to persons
for the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
      (11)   Whenever any building or structure that has been constructed,
exists or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to the building or structure provided by the building regulations of
the County Building Department or of any law or ordinance of the state or town
relating to the condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-
supporting part, member or portion less than 66% of the strength, fire
resisting qualities or characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or
characteristics approved by law in the case of a newly constructed building of
like area, height and occupancy in the same location;
      (13)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
residential or non-residential purposes because of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate
light, air or sanitation facilities or otherwise is determined by the Council
or its designee to be unfit for human occupancy, to be insanitary or in a
condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connection
or heating apparatus or other cause is determined by the Council or its
designee to be a fire hazard; or
      (15)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute the building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.07 ORDER TO VACATE; TIME ALLOWED TO VACATE.
   (A)   Whenever a building, dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming
unit is declared by the Council or its designee as unsafe or unfit for human
occupancy, the Council or its designee may post an order to vacate placard
requiring the building to be vacated and to remain vacated. The placard shall
be authorized and signed by the Administrator of the Department, it shall
contain the address and phone number of the Department and the date by which
the occupant shall vacate the building, dwelling or dwelling unit or portion
thereof. The Council or its designee may issue an order to vacate pursuant to
I.C. 36-7-9-5 or 36-7-9-17 if the owner or occupant fails to vacate the unsafe
premises.
   (B)   Any building, dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human
occupation and so designated and placarded by the Council or its designee,
shall be vacated within not less than 24 hours or more than 30 days as ordered
by the Council or its designee.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.08 WRITTEN NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Council or its designee, after posting an order to vacate a property,
shall, in addition to I.C. 36-7-9-25, serve to the owner, agent or person in
control of the property, a written notice listing the violations that caused
this order to be issued and the action that this order requires.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.09 REMOVAL OR ALTERATION OF NOTICE OR PLACARD PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, remove or alter any notice or
placard from any structure or dwelling which has been placarded under this
chapter, except by the express written permission of the Council or its
designee.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR REOCCUPANCY.
   No building or dwelling unit which has been placarded as unfit for human
occupancy shall again be used for human occupancy until written approval is
secured from and the placard is removed by the Council or its designee. The
Council or its designee shall remove the placard whenever the defect(s) upon
which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.11 REQUIREMENTS FOR VACANT BUILDINGS.
   The owner of any building or structure or portion thereof that is vacant is
required to secure and maintain them according to all requirements of this
chapter relative to exterior condition of the structure and its premises.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.12 UNSECURED OPENINGS TO BE BOARDED.
   Unsecured openings in any building, dwelling, dwelling unit or structure
shall be secured with one-half inch C.D.X. plywood to be nailed with eight-
penny Ardox siding nails or equal to the frame of the opening. Other boarding
specifications may be approved by the Department.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.13 DUTIES.
   The Council shall adopt a schedule setting forth the maximum amount of
performance bonds applicable to various types or orders pursuant to I.C. 36-7-
9-7(f), and determine the amount of the average processing expense pursuant to
I.C. 36-7-9-12.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.25 PROVISIONS FOR INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   The Council or its designee shall inspect buildings, dwellings, dwelling
units and accessory structures and premises based on the following provisions.
   (A)   The Council or its designee is hereby authorized and directed to make
inspections where probable cause exists or with consent of the owner, agent or
occupant to determine the condition of buildings, dwellings, dwelling units,
rooming units and premises located within the town in order that they may
perform their duty of safeguarding the health and safety of the occupants of
dwellings and of the general public.
      (1)   For the purpose of making the inspections, the Council or its
designee is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times all buildings, dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and premises.
      (2)   In the event the owner or occupant of any building, dwelling,
dwelling unit or rooming unit or the person in charge thereof refuses to give
the Council or its designee free access to the dwelling, dwelling unit or
rooming unit and its premises, the Council or its designee may apply for an
inspection warrant pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-16.
   (B)   Where conditions of an area, passage of time, the nature of the
building, or a need to conduct a periodic, area-wide inspection exists, and
where a showing of such is made by affidavit, an inspection warrant shall be
issued by a court of record in the county directing the inspection of the
property concerned.
   (C)   The Council or its designee is authorized, in order to protect the
life, health and safety of persons or property, to take emergency action and
recover costs.
   (D)   The Council or its designee is authorized and directed to proceed with
a full inspection of any structure that is deemed to be a public nuisance by
the fact that it is unsealed, unsecured and vacant.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.26 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Council or its designee determines there are reasonable grounds
to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this chapter, it
may serve notice of the alleged violation to the person or persons responsible
therefor. The Council or its designee is not required to serve a notice prior
to an order pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-5.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.27 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice of any provision of this chapter may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Council or its
designee; provided that, the person shall file in the office of the Council or
its designee a written petition requesting the hearing and setting forth a
brief statement of the grounds therefor within ten days after the day the
notice was served.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the petition the Council or its designee shall set
a time and place for the hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice
thereof. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be
heard and to show why the notice should be modified or withdrawn.
      (2)   The hearing shall be commenced not later than ten days after the
day on which the petition was filed; provided that, upon application of the
petitioner the Council or its designee may postpone the date of the hearing for
a reasonable time beyond the ten-day period, if, in its judgment, the
petitioner has submitted a good and sufficient reason for the postponement.
   (B)   When the Council or its designee issues an order to repair, a hearing
shall be conducted pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-7.
   (C)   The hearing officer shall not be an employee of the town.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.28 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to fines levied against the owner and in consideration of the
property's effect on the neighborhood, the Council may petition the court to
place the property in the housing receivership program. The Council will
petition the court for the appointment of a receiver pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-
20, granting to the receiver all authority, powers and duties therein set
forth.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of I.C. 36-7-9-28 or any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not provided, shall, upon conviction by the court, be
punished by a fine not to exceed $2,500 per violation. Each and every day on
which the condition exists shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.
All fines and costs recovered by the town pursuant to this chapter shall be
placed in the Unsafe Building Fund.
(Ord. 3-13-00-3, passed 3-13-2000)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
   
151.01   Permit required
   
151.02   Permitted use in mobile home park
   
151.03   Minimum square footage requirements
   
151.04   Other requirements
   
151.05   Variances
   
151.06   Compliance
   
151.07   Classifications
§ 151.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Manufactured homes may be allowed by permit in the town; provided that,
their use as a single-family dwelling unit incorporates a permanent foundation,
a permanent perimeter wall and all other conditions and requirements set forth
in this chapter.
(Ord. 4-8-97-1, passed 4-8-1997)
§ 151.02 PERMITTED USE IN MOBILE HOME PARK.
   Mobile homes shall be a permitted use only in a mobile home park.
(Ord. 4-8-97-1, passed 4-8-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 MINIMUM SQUARE FOOTAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   Manufactured homes shall be required to meet the minimum square footage
requirements provided for all single-family homes.
(Ord. 4-8-97-1, passed 4-8-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The homes shall meet all the requirements applicable to single-family
dwellings and shall be subject to all necessary improvement, location, building
and occupancy permits.
   (B)   The homes shall be larger than 720 square feet of occupied space or
shall be required to meet the standards established by the appropriate zoning
district, whichever is greater.
   (C)   The homes must be permanently attached to a foundation consisting of
at least straight-line footers every eight feet and at least 24 inches deep;
under the frame line of the manufactured home footer shall be a minimum of 16
inches and 24 inches deep; the excavated area under floor grade shall be
completely enclosed with permanent perimeter foundation or basement walls,
except for any required openings; provided further that, vinyl skirting may be
allowed if it is interlocked horizontally or vertically.
   (D)   The homes shall be covered with an exterior material of one or more of
the following types, which shall extend over the top of the foundation:
      (1)   Horizontal aluminum or vinyl lap siding;
      (2)   Cedar or wood siding;
      (3)   Weather resistant grain pressboard;
      (4)   Stucco, block or stone; and/or
      (5)   Any other material approved by the Executive Secretary of the Area
Plan Commission.
   (E)   The homes shall have a roof composed of material customarily used on
site-built residential buildings such as asbestos or metal, fiberglass, shake,
asphalt or tile, which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately pitched
for the materials used.
(Ord. 4-8-97-1, passed 4-8-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 VARIANCES.
   Any manufactured homes not meeting the terms of this chapter shall be
permitted only after receiving a variance approved by the Area Plan Commission
of the county.
(Ord. 4-8-97-1, passed 4-8-1997)
§ 151.06 COMPLIANCE.
   Any structural alteration or modification of a manufactured home after it is
placed upon the site must be made in full compliance with this chapter and must
be approved by the Executive Secretary of the Area Plan Commission prior to the
issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 4-8-97-1, passed 4-8-1997)
§ 151.07 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A mobile home located on a lot, when an improvement location permit
and a certificate of occupancy have been issued for the use which is on file in
the office of the Executive Secretary of the Area Plan Commission, is a
permitted use on the lot and shall be classified by the Executive Secretary
according to one of the six mobile home classifications set forth in division
(B) below. Accordingly, the existing "classified" mobile home may remain on the
lot upon which it was legally located at the time of passage of this chapter.
The owner of the lot has the following options.
      (1)   The existing mobile home may be replaced by another mobile home
having the same or a higher classification; provided that, the existing mobile
home would either replace another mobile home or be removed from the town
before an improvement location permit could be issued by the Executive
Secretary.
      (2)   The existing mobile home may be replaced with any other use
permitted in the particular district where the lot is located.
      (3)   If an existing or replaced mobile home is removed from a lot for a
period of more than 90 days, another mobile home cannot again be located on
that lot.
   (B)   Mobile homes are hereby divided into the following classes by the
Executive Secretary.
      (1)   Class A. Mobile homes built on or after 6-15-1976, and manufactured
dwellings built prior to 1-1-1981, or on or after 6-15-1976, certified as
meeting the mobile home construction and safety standards of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and approved as meeting “acceptable similarity”
appearance standards in accordance with the federal § 504.10.
      (2)   Class B. Mobile homes certified as meeting HUD mobile home
construction and safety standards, but not approved as meeting "acceptable
similarity" appearance standards.
      (3)   Class C. Mobile homes (built prior to 6-15-1976) certified as
meeting "acceptable prior code or codes" or used mobile homes certified as
meeting either HUD standards specified above or the prior code, found on
inspection to be in excellent condition and safe and fit for residential
occupancy.
      (4)   Class D. Mobile homes (built prior to 6-15-1976), whether or not
certified as meeting HUD or prior codes, found on inspection to be in good
condition.
      (5)   Class E. Mobile homes (built prior to 6-15-1976), whether or not
certified as meeting HUD or prior codes, found on inspection to be in fair
condition.
      (6)   Class F. Mobile homes (built prior to 6-15-1976), whether or not
certified as meeting HUD or prior codes, found on inspection to be in poor
condition, unsafe and/or unfit for residential occupancy.
(Ord. 4-8-97-1, passed 4-8-1997; Ord. 3-12-01-1, passed - -2001)
CHAPTER 152: SOIL EROSION AND CONTROL
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Applicability
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   General principles
   
152.05   Design criteria, standards and specifications for erosion control
measures
   
152.06   Erosion and sediment control requirements
   
152.07   Inspection
   
152.08   Enforcement
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to conserve the natural resources; to protect
the quality of air and water, and to protect and promote the health, safety and
welfare of people, to the extent practicable by minimizing the amount of
sediment and other pollutants resulting from soil erosion due to land
disturbing activities, from being transported off-site to adjacent public or
private lands including ditches, streams, lakes, wetlands and reservoirs.
(Ord. 4-8-97-3, passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all land disturbing activities on land within
the boundaries and jurisdiction of the County Area Plan Commission, hereafter
referred to as the "jurisdiction". Agricultural land disturbing activities, as
defined in §
152.03, are exempted from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   This section applies to those sites requiring an improvement location
permit.
   (C)   This chapter does not preclude the applicable from acquiring any other
necessary local, state and federal permits.
(Ord. 4-8-97-3, passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES. The disturbance of land for the
production of animal or plant life, including forestry, pasturing of livestock
and planting and growing, cultivating and harvesting crops for human or
livestock consumption. This does not include the construction of farm
facilities such as dwellings, barns, sheds or other structures.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice or gravity.
   EROSION CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or a combination of practices to control
erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting and
grading.
   RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation from sources as rainfall, snow melt or
irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land disturbing activity has been conducted.
(Ord. 4-8-97-3, passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.04 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   The following principles apply to all land disturbing activities within the
jurisdiction:
   (A)   To minimize the potential for soil erosion, development should fit the
topography and soils of the site. Areas with steep slopes where deep cuts and
fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible;
   (B)   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever possible.
Areas immediately adjacent to watercourses and lakes also should be left
undisturbed wherever possible;
   (C)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence so
that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development;
   (D)   Provision should be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changed soil and surface conditions (impervious areas) during and after
development; and
   (E)   Minimize the length and steepness of slopes to reduce erosion control.
(Ord. 4-8-97-3, passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.05 DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR EROSION CONTROL
MEASURES.
   All erosion control measures including, but not limited to, those required
to comply with this chapter shall meet the design criteria, standards and
specifications for erosion control measures similar to or the same as those
outlined in the Indiana Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas,
published by the State Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 4-8-97-3, passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.06 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall be met on all sites.
   (A)   Sediment-laden water flowing from the site shall be detained by
erosion control measures appropriate to minimize sedimentation.
   (B)   Water shall not be discharged in a manner that causes erosion at or
downstream of the point of discharge.
   (C)   All access to building sites that cross a natural watercourse,
drainage easement or swale/channel shall have a culvert of appropriate size.
   (D)   Wastes or unused building materials, including, but not limited to,
garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater, toxic materials and hazardous
substances, shall not be carried by runoff from a site. All wastes shall be
disposed of in a proper manner.
   (E)   Sediment being tracked from a site onto public or private roadways
shall be minimized. This can be accomplished initially by a temporary gravel
construction entrance, in addition to a well-planned layout of roads, access
drives and parking areas.
   (F)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water.
   (G)   All storm drain inlets shall be protected against sedimentation with
barriers meeting accepted criteria, standards and specifications.
   (H)   Runoff passing through a site from adjacent areas shall be controlled
by diverting it around disturbed areas, where practical. Diverted runoff shall
be conveyed in a manner that will not erode the channel and receiving areas.
Alternatively, the existing channel may be left undisturbed or improved erosion
or sedimentation from occurring.
   (I)   Drainage ways and swales shall be designed and adequately protected so
that their final gradients and resultant velocities will not cause channel or
outlet scouring.
   (J)   Appropriate sediment control practices shall be installed prior to any
land disturbances and thereafter whenever necessary.
   (K)   During the period of construction activity at a site, erosion control
measures necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter shall be
maintained.
(Ord. 4-8-97-3, passed 4-8-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 INSPECTION.
   The County Building Inspector, or his or her representative, may enter the
site for the purpose of verifying compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 4-8-97-3, passed 4-8-1997)
§ 152.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall post a stop-work order on the site if the
requirements of this chapter are not being met.
   (B)   If, within 30 days after issuance of a stop-work order, a permit
holder does not comply with the requirements of this chapter, the Building
Inspector may ask the Executive Director of the County Area Plan Commission to
revoke the improvement location permit.
   (C)   Appeal of the revocation of an improvement location permit may be made
in accordance with § 80.40 of the County Area Zoning Code.
   (D)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter also may be enforced by
injunction.
(Ord. 4-8-97-3, passed 4-8-1997)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 153.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county's zoning code, and any and all amendments thereto, is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 10-8-01-2, passed 8-31-2001)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                Code Section
1-1-1-5                     10.04
1-1-1-7                     10.12
1-1-1-8                     10.06
1-1-4-5                     10.05
1-1-5-1                     10.11
1-1-6-1                     10.08
3                           32.03
3-5-2-40.1                  32.03
3-10-6-5                    30.02
4-21.5-3-1 et seq.          53.18,
                            53.37
5-2-1-9(f)                  31.02
5-11-13-1                   32.03
8-1.5-3-4                   52.03
9-13-2-49.3                 70.02
9-13-2-104 (Repealed)       70.02
9-13-2-108                  70.02
9-13-2-109 (Repealed)       70.02
9-13-2-123                  70.02
9-13-2-150                  70.02
9-13-2-188                  70.02
9-18-12 (Expired)           91.07
9-19-11 et seq.             70.02
9-21-9-2                    70.02
9-21-11-9                   71.13
9-22-1                      90.039
9-22-1 et seq.              91.02
9-22-1-1 et seq.            91.01
9-22-1-11                   91.05,
                            91.06
9-22-1-11 through 9-22-1-14 91.05
9-22-1-27 et seq.           91.07
9-22-1-30                   91.07,
                            91.08
9-25-2-3                    70.02
9-25-2-4                    70.02
14-8-2-185                  70.02
15-5-9-14 (Repealed)        92.04
22-9-5-6                    94.02
22-9-5-6(b)                 94.02
22-9-5-6(d)                 94.02
22-9-7-4                    92.01
22-9-7-6                    92.01
22-9.5-1 et seq.            94.01
22-9.5-2-2                  94.02
22-9.5-2-3                  94.02
22-9.5-2-4                  94.02
22-9.5-2-8                  94.02
22-9.5-2-9                  94.02
22-9.5-2-11                 94.02
22-9.5-2-13                 94.02
22-9.5-3                    94.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.            94.09
22-9.5-4-1 et seq.          94.02
22-9.5-4-8                  94.10
22-9.5-5                    94.02
22-9.5-5-1                  94.03
22-9.5-6                    94.02,
                            94.10
22-9.5-6(b)                 94.02
22-9.5-6(d)                 94.02
32-26-1 et seq.             90.008
32-30-7-1                   90.038
32-30-7-7                   90.040
35-41-1                     90.038
35-45-1-1 et seq.           90.005
35-45-4                     90.038
35-45-17-2 (Repealed)       110.99
35-49-2-1                   90.006
35-49-2-2                   90.006
36-1-3-8(a)(10)             10.99
36-1-20-4.1(c)              95.05
36-1-20.2                   32.03
36-4-6-4                    30.01
36-4-6-5                    30.01
36-4-6-11                   30.01
36-5-2-2                    10.15,
                            30.01
36-5-2-8                    30.01
36-5-2-9.2                  30.01
36-5-2-9.4                  30.01
36-5-2-9.6                  30.01
36-5-2-9.8                  30.01
36-5-2-10                   30.01
36-5-2-10.2                 30.01
36-5-4-12                   31.15
36-5-6-2                    30.01
36-5-6-6                    30.01
36-5-6-7                    30.01
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28  150.01
36-7-9-1 et seq.            95.05
36-7-9-2                    150.03
36-7-9-4                    150.02
36-7-9-5                    150.07,
                            150.26
36-7-9-7                    150.27
36-7-9-7(f)                 150.13
36-7-9-12                   150.13
36-7-9-14                   150.04
36-7-9-16                   95.05,
                            150.25
36-7-9-17                   150.07
36-7-9-20                   150.28
36-7-9-25                   95.05,
                            150.08
36-7-9-28                   150.99
36-7-10.1-3 et seq.         90.057
36-8-2-2                    90.002
36-8-2-4                    90.001
36-8-2-8                    90.003,
                            Ch. 131
36-8-2-9                    90.004
36-10-3                     31.03
                            
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
12-12-2022 12-12-2022  30.01
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.         Date Passed Code Section
8-8-94-1         8-8-1994    Ch. 72 Sch. I
3-13-95-0        3-13-1995   32.02
2-13-96-6        2-13-1996   31.15
3-12-96-2        3-12-1996   31.01
3-12-96-5        3-12-1996   30.01
                             94.01 
4-9-96-1         4-9-1996    94.10,
                             94.99
8-13-96-2        8-13-1996   93.01
8-13-96-3        8-13-1996   52.02,
                             52.03
4-8-97-1         4-8-1997    151.01 
                             151.07
4-8-97-2         4-8-1997    70.15,
                             70.99
4-8-97-3         4-8-1997    152.01 
                             152.08
8-19-97-3        8-19-1997   Ch. 72 Sch. I
9-9-97-1         9-9-1997    Ch. 72 Sch. I
9-9-97-2         9-9-1997    Ch. 72 Sch. I
9-9-97-3         9-9-1997    Ch. 72 Sch. I
11-18-97-1       11-18-1997  50.01
6-8-98-1         - -1998     31.02
-                8- -1998    52.15 
                             52.22
8-10-98-2        8-10-1998   53.01
                             90.075 
1-11-99-1        9- -1998    90.077,
                             90.999
1-11-99-2        - -1999     31.03
                             150.01 
                             150.13,
3-13-00-3        3-13-2000   150.25 
                             150.28,
                             150.99
3-12-01-1        - -2001     151.07
10-8-01-2        8-31-2001   153.01
1-14-02-1        1-12-2002   53.30 
                             53.39
2-11-02-1        2-11-2002   51.01
12-13-04-1       - -2004     32.01
                             90.001 
                             90.020,
                             90.035 
                             90.040,
                             90.055 
                             90.063,
                             90.999,
                             91.01 
7-11-05-1        8-8-2005    91.08,
                             91.99,
                             92.01 
                             92.04,
                             130.01 
                             130.03,
                             130.99,
                             131.01 
                             131.03,
                             131.99
7-11-05-2        8-8-2005    53.02 
                             53.18
                             70.01,
8-8-05-1         9-12-2005   70.99,
                             Ch. 73 Sch. I
7-11-05-3        9-12-2005   53.99 
                             92.15 
05-14-07-1       - -2007     92.23,
                             92.99
                             110.01 
06-11-07-1       6-11-2007   110.07,
                             110.99
                             71.01 
10-08-07-1       11-19-2007  71.14,
                             71.99
11-19-07-1       11-19-2007  52.01
12-10-07-1       12-10-2007  32.01
9-13-10-02       9-13-2010   93.02,
                             93.99
4-11-11-1        - -2011     70.02,
                             70.99
2-9-15-01        2-9-2015    32.02
Res. 3-9-15-01   3-9-2015    32.03
                             51.01,
7-13-2015-1      9-14-2015   52.01,
                             52.02,
                             52.21
7-13-2015-2      9-14-2015   53.32
06-13-16-02      6-13-2016   32.04
06-13-16-1       6-13-2016   32.05
6-13-16-01       7-11-2016   70.15
2017-03-13-11  4-10-2017   30.02
6-12-17-1        6-12-2017   70.02
2017-6-12-2      7-10-2017   52.23
                             95.01 
7-10-17-1        8-14-2017   95.05,
                             95.99
7-10-17-3        8-14-2017   90.037
2019-5-13        6-10-2019   90.007
2019-05-13-2     6-10-2019   Ch. 72, Sch. I
7-8-2019-1       7-8-2019    Ch. 73, Sch. I
10-14-2019-1     10-14-2019  Ch. 72, Sch. I
10-14-2019-2     11-18-2019  50.01
7-13-2020-1      8-10-2020   32.06
2021-11-2        12-13-2021  90.058
4-11-2022        - -2022     Ch. 73, Sch. II
2022-6-13        7-11-2022   92.01
5-9-2022         8-15-2022   90.037
11-14-2022       12-12-2022  50.01
101923-2         10-19-2023  52.01
05132024-1       5-13-2024   52.21
08122024-4       10-7-2024   Ch. 73, Sch. I
10072024-1       10-7-2024   90.037,
                             90.039
11112024-1       11-11-2024  110.01,
                             110.05
12092024-1       12-9-2024   32.07
                            
 
 
