MONON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-5-2023
State legislation current through 2023 Legislative Service, Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Monon Town Code”,
for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or “code” may
be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws,
amendments thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or
amendment thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and
effect, as if it had not been repealed by this code.
      (2)   All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to
the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   (1)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved
by reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted.
      (2)   The section most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting
section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. White County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Monon, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a prior year and subsequently amended, the
previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1998 Code,
§      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
      
33.   PERSONNEL
      
34.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Employees
   
30.01   Clerk-Treasurer; part-time help
   
30.02   Employees to be residents of town
   
30.03   Travel expenses
   
30.04   Promoting town business
   
30.05   Street Commissioner; duties
EMPLOYEES
§ 30.01 CLERK-TREASURER; PART-TIME HELP.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is authorized to have two employees
(one full-time and one part-time) to work as he or she deems necessary.
   (B)   The salaries of the two employees shall be paid from Utilities or
General Funds, as stated in the salary ordinance each year.
(1998 Code, § 12-3)
§ 30.02 EMPLOYEES TO BE RESIDENTS OF TOWN.
   (A)   All full-time employees of the town shall reside within the corporate
limits of the Town of Monon.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES shall mean any
person employed by the town who works at least 40 hours per week.
(1998 Code, § 12-2) (Ord. passed 11-2-2004)
§ 30.03 TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   The Town Council allows payment for the following expenses:
   (A)   For mileage, the same rate as the federal government allows for income
tax purposes;
   (B)   For meals with receipts, not to exceed the sum of $24 per day, per
person;
   (C)   For lodging, not to exceed the single room rate per night; and
   (D)   Parking fees.
(1998 Code, § 4-11)
§ 30.04 PROMOTING TOWN BUSINESS.
   (A)   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from
the town’s General Fund to pay expenses or to reimburse town officials, as the
case may be, for expenses incurred in promoting the town’s best interests.
   (B)   The expenses may include, but not be limited to, rental of meeting
places, booth space, meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards, expenses incurred
in promoting industrial services, residential development and any other expense
of a civic or governmental nature, which, in the opinion of the Town Council,
will advance the interests of the town.
   (C)   Expenses for any special dinners for town employees and the Town
Council.
   (D)   The expenses may not exceed the sum of $1,200 per year.
(1998 Code, § 4-9) (Ord. 4-9, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 30.05 STREET COMMISSIONER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The position of Street Commissioner is hereby established. The duties
of said position shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   To ensure resident and customer safety through careful management
of the town infrastructure, including but not limited to the town streets,
sidewalks, parks, storm drains, buildings and properties; to facilitate
coordination with and between other departments, to ensure that town roads and
streets are safe, clearly marked and free of obstruction(s) ensuring resident
and driver safety; to ensure that sidewalks are safe and ADA compliant, to take
part in planning for the future paving, storm water, and construction and
repair projects, planning and implementing corrective actions or repairs, and
snow removal, replacement/maintenance of signage on streets and properties,
ensuring storm sewer system is maintained and repaired.
      (2)   To coordinate manpower, scheduling issues and project priorities to
keep the streets and other facilities in a good, safe condition.
      (3)   Those duties and responsibilities granted to a Utility
Superintendent under I.C. 8-1.5-3-5.
      (4)   Attend monthly Town Council meetings and provide an oral report.
      (5)   Other duties as assigned by the Town Council.
   (B)   Should any personal bond be required by the laws of the state for the
Street Commissioner for the powers and duties imposed by I.C. 8-1.5-3-5, the
premiums of such bond shall be paid in the same manner as those bonds required
for other town officials.
   (C)   The Street Commissioner shall be considered a purchasing agent under §
32.32(D) and have all the powers and authority granted to a purchasing agent.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 12-5-2023)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Council
   
31.02   Park and Recreation Board
   
31.03   Economic Development Commission
   
31.04   Violations Bureau
   
31.05   Election Board
§ 31.01 COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council consists of five members and its members shall be elected
at large by the voters of the whole town in accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-5, and
as adopted herein.
   (B)   The legislative districts of the town have been abolished as provided
by the town.
(1998 Code, § 16-2) (Ord. passed 11-7-2000; Ord. 02-02, passed 11-5-2002)
§ 31.02 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3, there is hereby created the
Monon Department of Parks and Recreation, operated by a Park and Recreation
Board.
   (B)   The Park and Recreation Board shall be composed of:
      (1)   Four members appointed by the Town Council on the basis of their
interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation.
      (2)   Additional members shall include one member from the North White
School Corporation School Board, who shall be appointed by the School Board,
and one member from the Monon Township Public Library Board, who shall be
appointed by the Monon Township Public Library Board.
      (3)   No Town Council member may sit on the Park and Recreation Board.
   (C)   (1)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of its members shall
be as follows:
         (a)   One member for a term of one year.
         (b)   One member for a term of two years.
         (c)   One member for a term of three years.
         (d)   One member for a term of four years.
         (e)   The North White School Corporation appointee shall be appointed
annually for the term of one year.
         (f)   The Monon Township Public Library appointee shall be appointed
annually for the term of one year.
      (2)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the Town
Council for a four year term. All terms expire on the first Monday in January,
but a member shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
If an appointment for a new term is not made by the Town Council by the first
Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy occurs,
the Town Council shall appoint a new member for the remainder of the unexpired
term.
   (D)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
President and a Vice-President. The Vice President shall have authority to act
as the President of the Board during the absence or disability of the
President. The Board may select a Secretary either from within or without its
own membership.
   (E)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be parks and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have all the powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-10-3 et seq.
   (F)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of town government as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
   (G)   The Park and Recreation Board shall have full and complete charge of
town parks and recreational property, including but not limited to the park
hereby designated to be known and named “The C.M. Homer Memorial Park”. The
Board shall have full power to make and enforce the rules and regulations as
shall be, in its opinion, necessary for the proper care, improvement, and
ornamentation of all parks and recreational property owned or partially owned
by the Town of Monon.
(1998 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 06-2014, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 31.03 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a department of economic development for
the town, to be controlled by a commission known as the “Monon Economic
Development Commission”.
   (B)   The Town Economic Development Commission shall consist of three
members, appointed as follows. All successor members shall serve a four-year
term.
      (1)   One member shall be selected by the President of the Town Council,
who shall be considered the town executive for purposes of this section.
      (2)   One member shall be nominated by the County Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   One member shall be nominated by the Town Council.
   (C)   The terms of office of the members of the Town Economic Development
Commission shall begin upon their appointment and continue for:
      (1)   Three years from 2-1-1987, in the case of the member selected by
the town executive;
      (2)   Two years from 2-1-1987, in the case of the member selected by the
County Board of Commissioners; and
      (3)   One year from 2-1-1987, in the case of the member selected by the
Town Council.
   (D)   Successor members shall be selected in the same manner as the original
members of the Town Economic Development Commission.
   (E)   The Town Economic Development Commission shall be governed by and
conform to the economic development statutes, I.C. 36-7-12-1, as amended,
insofar as procedural matters are concerned.
   (F)   The Town Economic Development Commission shall have all the powers
provided for at law and specifically those stated in I.C. 36-7-12-8, as
amended, as originally enacted by Acts, 1981, Pub. Law No. 309, § 31.
   (G)   Within 30 days of its initial meeting and on January 31 of each
subsequent year, the Town Economic Development Commission shall file its report
with the Town Council and the State Department of Commerce on the form
prescribed by the Department and pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-36.
(1998 Code, § 4-8)
§ 31.04 VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   There is hereby established for the town an Ordinance Violations
Bureau and the duly elected Clerk-Treasurer is appointed Administrator and
Clerk of the Bureau, to hold the office during the term of office.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to accept written
appearances, waivers of trial and admissions of ordinance violations to the
extent permitted by law.
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to assess and collect a
civil penalty, as set by Town Council from time to time, from each person who
admits a violation of one of the following ordinances:
         (a)   
Ch. 90, Animals, except the fee for reclaiming an animal shall remain, as set
by Town Council from time to time;
         (b)   Ch.
91, Fires;
         (c)   Section
92.02, Weeds;
         (d)   Section
70.05, Motor Vehicles; and
         (e)   
Ch. 73, Sch. I, Parking.
      (2)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted from and accounted for
by the Clerk-Treasurer under procedures provided by the State Board of
Accounts.
   (D)   Any person charged with an ordinance violation who does not admit to
the violation to the Clerk-Treasurer and does not waive his or her right to
trial shall be entitled to a trial before the White Supreme Court or other
court before which the violation charged may be pending. A denial may be made
in person or in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   If any person, upon denying a violation of the ordinance charged or
failing to pay the civil penalty for the ordinance violation charged, fails to
appear to either admit or deny the charge, the Clerk-Treasurer shall report
this fact to the Town Attorney who shall prosecute the alleged violation on
behalf of the town.
   (F)   This section does not apply to any offense involving moving vehicular
traffic and/or violation of state motor vehicle laws.
(1998 Code, § 14-3)
§ 31.05 ELECTION BOARD.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-5.5, there is hereby established a Town
Election Board, to conduct the 2007 municipal election for the town, which
shall be conducted in the manner provided by I.C. 3-10-7 and as otherwise
required by law.
   (B)   The Town Election Board, pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-7(b), shall consist
of three members.
(Res. 07-03, passed 8-7-2007)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Issuance, use of credit cards
   
32.02   Capital asset policy
   
32.03   Organization dues
   
32.04   Investment of excess funds
   
32.05   Materiality policy
   
32.06   Electronic funds transfers and online banking
Fees
   
32.15   Accident report fees
   
32.16   Trash service rates and charges
Purchasing
   
32.30   Purchase of materials manufactured in the United States
   
32.31   Purchasing agent
Funds and Accounts
   
32.45   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
32.46   Cumulative Capital Fund
   
32.47   Forfeited Property Fund
   
32.48   Vehicle Inspection Fund
   
32.49   Rainy Day Fund
   
32.50   Water and Sewage Fund
   
32.51   Sewage Works Improvement Fund
   
32.52   Sewage Works Fund
   
32.53   Water Depreciation Account
   
32.54   Riverboat Gaming Tax Fund
   
32.55   Petty Cash Fund
   
32.56   Cash Change Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 ISSUANCE, USE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   Credit card issuance.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make application for
credit cards to use by town officials and employees for official town business,
limited to travel and educational expenses and for public purchases.
      (2)   Credit cards issued for travel and educational expenses shall have
a maximum limit of $2,000.
      (3)   Credit cards issued for public purchases shall have a maximum limit
of $5,000.
   (B)   Credit card use policies and procedures.
      (1)   When not in use, the credit cards shall be secured in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Upon request by a town official or employee, the Clerk-Treasurer or
Clerk-Treasurer’s designee shall issue the credit card for use and shall keep a
record showing the name and position of the individual requesting use of the
card, date of issuance, date of return and purpose of use.
      (3)   Town officials and employees shall use credit cards for the purpose
of city travel and educational expenses limited to the following:
         (a)   Hotel or motel room;
         (b)   Hotel or motel room charges for telephone calls pertaining to
town business;
         (c)   Meals, including a maximum of 20% gratuity;
         (d)   Fees or costs associated with attending schools, conventions,
seminars and the like;
         (e)   Gasoline, if using a town-owned vehicle; and
         (f)   Excluded charges include alcoholic beverages, room service, non-
business telephone calls, in-room movies and cash advances.
      (4)   Town officials and employees shall use credit cards for the purpose
of town public purchases limited to the following:
         (a)   Supplies;
         (b)   Materials;
         (c)   Small tools and minor equipment; and
         (d)   Fuel.
      (5)   Accounts payable vouchers (claims) filed in connection with the use
of credit cards shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer for processing within
72 hours of use and shall be properly itemized and documented as provided in
I.C. 5-11-10, including receipts, before approved and paid. The credit card
account will be paid in full every billing cycle. Improperly itemized and
documented items, as well as all interest, carrying charges or penalties, shall
be the personal responsibility of the individual user.
      (6)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall have the power and authority to pay all
reasonable annual fees associated with the credit card accounts.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 32.02 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Council sets its capital asset policy as follows:
      (1)   Any machinery or equipment or any other property purchased by the
town or utilities of a value of $5,000 or more; and
      (2)   Has a life of one year or more.
   (B)   All machinery or equipment shall be depreciated at a rate of 10% per
year and other property shall be depreciated at a rate of 1-1/2% per year.
(1998 Code, § 4-10)
§ 32.03 ORGANIZATION DUES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay dues from the General Fund for and to
the following organizations:
      (1)   Indiana Association of Towns and Cities;
      (2)   Monon Chamber of Commerce;
      (3)   Indiana League of Municipal Clerks;
      (4)   International Institute of Municipal Clerks; and
      (5)   Indiana Vehicle Theft Association.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay dues from the town’s water works for and
to the following organizations: Alliance of IN Rural Water, and Indiana Rural
Water Association.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay dues from the town’s sewage works for
and to the following organizations: Alliance of IN Rural Water, and Indiana
Rural Water Association.
(1998 Code, § 4-7)
§ 32.04 INVESTMENT OF EXCESS FUNDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized, from time to time, as
surplus monies are available in the various funds of the town, to invest the
surplus in United States Treasury certificates, treasury bills or certificates
of deposit, with maturities that will make the monies available when needed in
the various funds. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to continue to make
investments and reinvestments of surplus funds until the time as the Town
Council shall deem otherwise.
(1998 Code, § 4-3)
§ 32.05 MATERIALITY POLICY.
   (A)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of
the town subdivision funds or property, or funds or property the town holds in
trust, shall be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee promptly
upon discovery.
   (B)   It will be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to report to the State
Board of Accounts and to the Town Council of Monon, Indiana, any erroneous
variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of cash in excess of $500, except for
inadvertent clerical errors that are identified timely and promptly corrected
with no loss to the town. The Clerk-Treasurer shall report any and all
erroneous variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of cash of $20 or more
occurring on a repetitive basis lasting for four weeks or more.
   (C)   It will be the policy of the Clerk-Treasurer to report promptly to the
State Board of Accounts and the Town Council of Monon, Indiana, any erroneous
variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of non-cash items in excess of $2,000
estimated market value, except for those resulting from inadvertent clerical
errors or misplacements that are identified in a timely manner and promptly
corrected with no loss to the town, except for losses from genuine accidents.
   (D)   All town elected officials are requested, and all town employees and
agents are directed, to comply with this policy, and the Town Council if
requested to endorse it.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall, when an irregular variance, loss, shortage,
or theft is determined material according to the town’s policy on materiality,
report the incident to the State Board of Accounts. This reporting may take
place through a reporting link on the State Board of Accounts website, by e-
mail, or in person.
(Res. 2016-02, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 32.06 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic Clearing House (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized and the Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make certain
payments via ACH. Authorized payments are payroll, bond payments and accounts
payable payments. Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic Funds Transfers (EFT) including online transfers. The Town
Council of the Town of Monon authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to use online
transfers for the purpose of transferring funds between the general, water, and
wastewater checking accounts in the process of paying claims/invoices.
   (C)   Documentation. The Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain adequate
documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits, as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-17-2022)
FEES
§ 32.15 ACCIDENT REPORT FEES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is authorized to charge a fee for furnishing an
accident report to any person requesting the report.
   (B)   The fees, when collected, shall be deposited with the Town Clerk-
Treasurer at least on a weekly basis and deposited in the “Accident Record
Account”. The funds may thereafter be expended by the Marshal for purposes
related to the keeping of accident reports and records for the prevention of
street and highway accidents when authorized by the Marshal and on the basis of
a claim filed and allowed in the manner provided by law.
(1998 Code, § 12-1)
§ 32.16 TRASH SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to the authority granted
under I.C. 36-1-3 et seq., I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(6) and I.C. 36-9-30-5.
   (B)   Rate for weekly residential trash pick-up service. There shall be
charged and collected monthly in advance, commencing 1-1-2010 (billed December,
2009) a fee of $5 per month from each residential sewer or water utility
customer of the town, who resides within the town limits for weekly residential
trash collection service.
   (C)   Billing and collection.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall bill each residential customer of town
municipal sewer utility, at the rate provided in division (B) above. If a
particular residence receiving trash collection is not a customer of the sewer
utility (e.g., customer has a septic tank), then the Clerk-Treasurer shall bill
that customer separately or with that customer’s water utility bill.
      (2)   Delinquent accounts for residential trash collection service shall
be subject to the collection policies and procedures of the towns’ municipal
utilities for delinquent accounts.
   (D)   Payment and returned check charge.
      (1)   Payment of the fees prescribed in this chapter may be made in cash,
by certified check or money order, or by single-party check.
      (2)   An additional charge of $20 shall be imposed for the return or non-
payment of any check for any reason.
   (E)   Disposition of fees. All fees collected under the authority of this
section, shall be accounted for in a non-reverting fund separate from all other
revenues of the town and its municipal utilities. All fees collected pursuant
to this section shall be applied and paid in accordance with the budget for
residential trash collection service, as adopted by the Town Council.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon its adoption, but
the rates and charges set forth herein shall be effective 1-1-2010, to be
billed in advance in December, 2009.
(Ord. 07-2009, passed 9-15-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Garbage, see §
92.03
PURCHASING
§ 32.30 PURCHASE OF MATERIALS MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town
purchases and shall be purchased unless the town determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The prices of supplies manufactured in the United States exceed by an
unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies manufactured
elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is less
than the quality of supplies of a comparable price manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(1998 Code, § 4-18)
§ 32.31 PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The Town Council is established as the purchasing agency for the town.
The Town Marshal and the Fire Chief are established as additional purchasing
agencies for their respective departments.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall have all powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22 et seq., as amended, as may be supplemented from time to time
by ordinances adopted by the Town Council and the rules and policies of the
purchasing agency.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office, council or department of the town.
   (D)   The purchasing agency may designate in writing any employee or elected
official of the town as a purchasing agent.
   (E)   The Town Superintendent, Town Marshal, Fire Chief and the Town Clerk-
Treasurer are hereby designated purchasing agents for all routine supplies and
materials, except those involving public works projects.
(1998 Code, § 4-17)
FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
§ 32.45 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Monon Cumulative Capital Development Fund is now reestablished and
retitled the Monon Municipal Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (B)   The reestablishment of a Cumulative Capital Development Fund shall be
established under the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5-5 et seq. for all uses set
forth in I.C. 36-9-15.5-2.
   (C)   An ad valorem property tax levy is reestablished at the maximum rate,
and the revenues from the levy will be retained in the Town of Monon Municipal
Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (D)   The maximum rate of levy under division (C) will not exceed $0.0500
per $100 assessed valuation for the year 2014 and thereafter.
   (E)   The Town of Monon Municipal Cumulative Capital Development Fund is
established until such time as the fund is rescinded.
   (F)   The funds accumulated in the Town of Monon Municipal Cumulative
Capital Development Fund shall be used as specified and as specifically set
forth in I.C. 36-9-15.5-2. The funds shall be specifically designated by the
Town Council as it deems fit, and the Town Council shall advise to spend the
capital development funds as set forth in I.C. 36-9-15.5-2, including but not
limited to the following:
      (1)   For capital improvements, as described in I.C. 36-8-14, regarding
firefighting building and equipment, police equipment and police radio
equipment;
      (2)   For capital improvements, as described in I.C. 36-9-16-2, regarding
the acquisition and erection of buildings;
      (3)   For capital improvements, as described in I.C. 36-9-16-3, regarding
expenditures for general cumulative capital improvement projects;
      (4)   For capital improvements, as described in I.C. 36-9-16.5 et seq.,
regarding expenditures for public streets, thoroughfares, sidewalks, and the
like;
      (5)   For capital improvements, as described in I.C. 36-9-17 et seq.,
regarding expenditures for the general improvement fund as provided;
      (6)   For capital improvements, as described in I.C. 36-9-26 et seq.,
regarding establishment of a Cumulative Building Fund for municipal sewers and
storm water projects as provided;
      (7)   For capital improvements, as described in I.C. 36-10-3-21 et seq.,
regarding expenditures for the general improvement fund for parks and
recreation as provided; and
      (8)   For uses set forth in I.C. 8-16-3, 8-22-3-25, 14-27-6-48, 14-33-14,
16-23-1-40, 36-9-27-100, and 36-10-4-36.
   (G)   Notwithstanding division (F) above, funds accumulated in the Town of
Monon Municipal Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes
other than the purposes stated in division (F) if the purpose is to protect the
public health, welfare or safety in an emergency situation which demands
immediate action. Money may be spent under the authority of this section only
after the Town Council President issues a declaration that the public health,
welfare or safety is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money
in the fund.
   (H)   This reestablishment of an ad valorem property tax levy at the maximum
rate takes effect only upon approval of the Department of Local Government
Finance.
(1998 Code, § 4-13) (Ord. 04-2014, passed 6-24-2014)
§ 32.46 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL FUND.
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements of § 8 of Chapter 225, Acts 1965
General Assembly, there is hereby created a special fund to be known as the
“Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund of Monon”, into which the cigarette taxes
allotted to the town, by reason of subsection C(1)(C) of § 27C and § d of the
Indiana Cigarette Tax Law, being Ch. 222 of the Acts of 1947, as amended, shall
be deposited.
   (B)   The Fund shall be a cumulative fund and all monies deposited into the
Fund shall be appropriated and used solely for capital improvements, as
hereinafter defined, and none of the monies shall revert to the General Fund or
be used for any purposes other than capital improvements.
   (C)   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS shall mean the construction or improvement of any
property owned by the town, including, but not limited to, streets,
thoroughfares, sewers, the retirement of general obligation bonds and the
proceeds used for the purpose of constructing capital improvements. Capital
improvements shall not include salaries of any public officials or employees,
except those which are directly chargeable to a capital improvement.
(1998 Code, § 4-1)
§ 32.47 FORFEITED PROPERTY FUND.
   There is hereby established the “Forfeited Property Fund”, which Fund is
established for the purpose of collecting proceeds received from the sale of
property used in violation of criminal statutes of the state and as defined by
state law, I.C. 34-4-30.1-1, as amended.
(1998 Code, § 4-15)
§ 32.48 VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the “Vehicle Inspection Fund”, which Fund
is established for the purpose of collecting all fees charged by the Town
Marshal or his or her Deputy for inspection of manufacturers numbers, title
numbers and license numbers and the certification thereof to any agency
requiring the certification.
   (B)   The fee for inspection of the vehicle manufacturer’s number, title
number or license number shall be the sum of $5 per vehicle inspected and
certified, which fee shall be collected at a time as certification is made and
deposited in the Vehicle Inspection Fund.
   (C)   The Town Council may appropriate funds from the Fund for use as
permitted by law when it adopts its annual budget or by use of the special
appropriation procedure.
(1998 Code, § 4-16)
§ 32.49 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Rainy Day Fund. There is hereby established a “Rainy Day
Fund” to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general
or special tax levy on taxable property within the town whenever the purpose of
the tax levy has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance remains.
   (B)   Purposes of the Fund. The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may
be used for the operation of the town and its various departments, when the
town does not have sufficient levies or funds to pay the costs, including, but
not limited to, salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment,
capital improvements, repairs and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfer to Fund. On or before December 31 of each year, the Town
Council shall determine the amount, if any, of any unused and unencumbered
funds available to be transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, which transfer may not
exceed more than 10% of the town’s budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations. The Town Council may authorize the expenditure of
funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same manner as
other funds are appropriated that receive tax monies, upon making a finding
that the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the Fund.
(Ord. 2004-01, passed 2-3-2004)
§ 32.50 WATER AND SEWAGE FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is authorized and empowered to invest
those funds which are paid to the town in the form of water and sewage fees and
which are from time to time determined by the Town Council to be “excess
funds”, the same being funds which would not be needed to operate and conduct
the general business of the town and which would not be necessary to keep at
ready hand for any general purpose, in United States Treasury certificates,
treasury bills or certificates of deposit, with maturities that will make the
monies available when needed in the various funds.
   (B)   The funds shall be invested for the longest period of time deemed
advisable by the Clerk-Treasurer and at the highest rate of interest determined
to be possible by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   (1)   Interest received from the purchase of the investments shall be
made payable to the order of the town and shall be deposited upon receipt to
the account of the utility fund from which the original funds were withdrawn to
purchase the investments.
      (2)   If the investments are purchased from more than one utility fund,
then the Clerk-Treasurer shall make a division of the interest received thereon
on a pro-rata basis and deposit to each utility fund its proportionate share of
interest received.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a record of all investments
purchased. The investment record shall include the following information:
      (1)   Source and amount of excess funds;
      (2)   Date of purchase;
      (3)   Account number;
      (4)   Date of maturity;
      (5)   All interest received; and
      (6)   Date of renewal and/or redemption.
   (E)   The investment record shall be reviewed on at least a quarterly basis
by the Town Council and determination made at that time as to the termination
or renewal of any accounts or deposits and to avoid possible penalties assessed
due to the necessity of early withdrawals.
   (F)   When any investment is redeemed or withdrawn, the funds received shall
be returned to and deposited in the utility fund from which it was originally
taken.
(1998 Code, § 4-6)
§ 32.51 SEWAGE WORKS IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   After satisfying the requirements for operation and maintenance and
the Sewage Works Sinking Fund, any excess revenues may be transferred or
credited to the Fund designated the “Sewage Works Improvement Fund”, herein
created, to be used for improvements, replacements, additions and extensions of
the sewage works.
   (B)   Monies in the Sewage Works Improvement Fund shall be transferred to
the Sewage Works Sinking Fund if necessary to prevent a default in the payment
of principal and interest on the then outstanding bonds, or, if necessary, to
eliminate any deficiencies in credits to or minimum balance in the Debt Service
Reserve Account of the Sewage Works Sinking Fund.
   (C)   Funds for operation and maintenance and the Sewage Works Improvement
Fund may be maintained in a single bank account or accounts, but the bank
account or accounts shall be maintained separate and apart from all other bank
accounts of the town and apart from the Sewage Works Sinking Fund bank account
or accounts.
(1998 Code, § 4-5)
§ 32.52 SEWAGE WORKS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created the “Sewage Works Sinking Fund”, to which Fund
there shall be deposited a sufficient amount of the net revenues of the sewage
works to meet the requirements of the Bond and Interest Account and of the Debt
Service Reserve Account, hereinafter created in the Sewage Works Sinking Fund.
   (B)   Beginning on the first calendar month following the beginning of the
section herein authorized, there shall be credited on the first day of each
calendar month to the Bond and Interest Account an amount equal to the sum of
one-twelfth of the principal and interest on then outstanding bonds payable
during the next succeeding 12 calendar months. There shall be similarly
credited to the account the amount necessary to pay the bank fiscal agency
charges for paying principal and interest on the bonds, as the same become
payable. The Town Council shall, from the sums deposited in the Sewage Works
Sinking Fund and credited to the Bond and Interest Account, remit promptly to
the bank/fiscal agency sufficient monies to pay the principal and interest on
the due dates thereof together with the amount of bank fiscal agency charges.
   (C)   Beginning on the first calendar month following the beginning of the
section herein authorized, there shall be credited from available net revenues
to the Debt Services Reserve Account the sum of $895 to be accumulated for both
the bonds issued hereunder and the Series B bonds or a higher amount as may be
fixed from time to time by the Town Council. The credits to the Debt Service
Reserve Account shall continue until the balance therein shall equal not less
than the maximum annual principal and interest requirements of the then
outstanding bonds payable from the Sewage Works Sinking Fund. The Debt Service
Reserve Account shall constitute the margin for safety and as a protection
against default in the payment of principal and interest on the bonds, and the
monies in the Debt Service Reserve Account shall be used to pay current
principal and interest on the bonds to the extent that monies in the Bond and
Interest Account are insufficient for that purpose. Any deficiencies in credits
to the Debt Service Reserve Account shall be promptly made up from the next
available net revenues remaining after credits into the Bond and Interest
Account. In the event monies in the Debt Service Reserve Account are
transferred to the Bond and Interest Account to pay principal and interest on
bonds, then the depletion of the balance in the Debt Service Reserve Account
shall be made up from the next available net revenues after the credits into
the Bond and Interest Account hereinbefore provided for. Any monies in the Debt
Service Reserve Account in excess of the maximum annual principal and interest
requirements of the then outstanding bonds may be used for the redemption of
bonds which are then callable, or for the purchase of outstanding bonds at a
price not exceeding the then applicable redemption price or the first
redemption price if the bonds are not callable, or may be transferred to the
Sewage Works Improvement Fund, but in no event shall the excess monies be held
in the Debt Service Reserve Account.
   (D)   The payments shall continue until the balance in the Bond and Interest
Account, plus the balance in the Debt Service Reserve Account hereinafter
created, equal the principal of and interest on all of the then outstanding
bonds to the final maturity thereof.
   (E)   The Sewage Works Sinking Fund shall be deposited in and maintained as
a separate bank account or accounts apart from all other bank accounts of the
town.
   (F)   NET REVENUES shall mean the gross revenues of the sewage works less
payment of the reasonable expenses of operation, repair and maintenance.
(1998 Code, § 4-4)
§ 32.53 WATER DEPRECIATION ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The Town Council may direct that any excess over the surplus shall be
used in the purchase or redemption of outstanding bonds at a price not
exceeding the redemption prices hereinafter set out. No further payments need
to be made into the Bond and Interest Redemption Account when the funds therein
equal or exceed the amount of the principal of the bonds then outstanding and
interest thereon to the maturity date thereof.
   (B)   All of the funds of the several accounts shall be deposited in lawful
depositories of the town, and shall be continuously held and secured as
provided by the laws of Indiana relating to the deposits, shall continue until
the balance in the Bond and Interest Account, revenues of the water works be
transferred or used for any purpose not authorized by this section, so long as
any of the bonds issued pursuant to the provisions of this section be
outstanding.
   (C)   The funds heretofore derived from the operation of the water works, on
hand on the effective date of this section, may be used in paying the operating
expenses of the water works to the extent required for that purpose and in
paying the cost of the additions, extensions and improvements to the water
works in the event the cost shall exceed the cost as now estimated.
   (D)   Any balance remaining after the completion of the extensions,
additions and improvements shall then be allocated to the three above-named
accounts on the percentage basis therein above set out in this section.
(1998 Code, § 4-2)
§ 32.54 RIVERBOAT GAMING TAX FUND.
   Since the town or the county do not have a riverboat whereby it may collect
riverboat gaming tax and since I.C. 4-33-13-6 requires the state to distribute
wagering taxes to the County Treasurer who is required to place distributions
in the city or town’s General Fund or Riverboat Fund, or both, authorizes the
creation of a Riverboat Gaming Fund as long as the funding is forthcoming to be
used as designated through appropriation by the town’s fiscal body.
(Res. 01-03, passed 8-19-2003)
§ 32.55 PETTY CASH FUND.
   A new cash fund to be known as the Petty Cash Fund is established.
   (A)   The fund shall be used only for minor cash purchases and expenditures.
The fund may not be used for personal cash advances even if secured by check or
other I.O.U.s.
   (B)   The Petty Cash Fund shall contain the amount of $100.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be designated as the disbursement officer
for the Petty Cash Fund and shall be responsible for its use.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be appointed custodian for the Petty Cash
Fund. The custodian shall assure the petty cash is kept in a safe place. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall assure that the amount in petty cash is periodically
counted by someone other than the custodian.
   (E)   The fund must be replenished to its original level of $100 at least
monthly by warrant or check payable to the custodian. The replenishment shall
be subject to the same review and approval as processed invoices. The
replenishment must be by voucher with the appropriate receipts attached. The
receipts should show the date, recipient, purpose, and amount of each cash
disbursement. The receipts must be signed by the person receiving the cash. The
receipts should be perforated or canceled by some other appropriate means to
prevent reuse. At the time of replenishment, the custodian should ensure that
the balance remaining in the petty cash, together with the amount of the
replenishment voucher, equals the authorized cash amount. The Fund shall be
replenished at the end of the fiscal year so that the expenses will be
reflected in the proper accounting period.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 5-18-2022)
§ 32.56 CASH CHANGE FUND.
   There is hereby authorized, created and established a Cash Change Fund for
use in the Utility Office to be known as the Utility Cash Change Fund, pursuant
to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-8 et seq.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer and such employees as he or she may designate are
permitted to collect cash revenues at the Utility Office, in order to support
the duties outlined in and to carry out the purposes of the utility.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is permitted to establish a Cash Change Fund in
support of this section.
      (2)   Such a Fund must be established by a warrant drawn upon the
appropriate fund in favor of the Clerk-Treasurer, who is the custodian of the
Fund.
   (B)   The Fund shall be established by a warrant drawn from the proper
appropriated or non-appropriated balance of the corporation general or such
other fund, as the Town Council may direct, in the amount of $100, in support
of the establishment of such a Cash Change Fund:
      (1)   The establishing warrant and such successive warrants as shall be
necessary to resupply the Fund shall be drawn in favor of the Clerk-Treasurer
who shall convert the warrant to cash.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer and such employees as he or she may designate
shall use it to make change when collecting rates and charges for programs or
services performed under the authority of law by the Utility Office.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall account for it in the same manner as is
required of other funds of the town.
   (C)   The entire Cash Change Fund authorized and established pursuant to
this section shall be returned to the corporation General Fund or its fund of
origin whenever there is a change in the custodian of the fund.
   (D)   The entire Cash Change Fund authorized and established pursuant to
this section shall be returned to the corporation General Fund or its Fund of
origin of the municipality whenever the purposes of the Fund have substantially
changed or the Fund is no longer needed.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 5-18-2022)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   General information
   
33.002   Equal employment opportunity
   
33.003   Productive work environment
   
33.004   Authorized alien status and citizenship
   
33.005   E-verify
Employment Policies
   
33.020   Residency requirements
   
33.021   Employee classifications
   
33.022   Introductory period
   
33.023   Access to personnel files
   
33.024   Personal information changes
   
33.025   Confidential information
   
33.026   Performance review and wage increases
   
33.027   Outside employment
   
33.028   Nepotism
Salary Administration
   
33.035   Work hours
   
33.036   Wage policy
   
33.037   FLSA timekeeping
   
33.038   Indiana timekeeping requirements
   
33.039   Work time restricted
   
33.040   Rounding
   
33.041   Payday
   
33.042   Cell phone allowance
   
33.043   Clothing allowance
   
33.044   Payroll deduction
   
33.045   Employment at will
   
33.046   Full-time employee/volunteer fireman
   
33.047   Overtime
   
33.048   Compensatory time
   
33.049   Flex time
Employee Benefits
   
33.060   Vacation
   
33.061   Holidays
   
33.062   Sick leave
   
33.063   Bereavement leave
   
33.064   Time off to vote
   
33.065   Court and jury duty
   
33.066   Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
   
33.067   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
   
33.068   Worker’s Compensation
   
33.069   Workplace safety
   
33.070   Group medical and life insurance
   
33.071   Dental insurance
   
33.072   Vision insurance
   
33.073   Life insurance
   
33.074   Identify theft protection
   
33.075   Legal shield
   
33.076   Indiana Public Retirement System (INPRS)
   
33.077   Longevity
   
33.078   Elective waiver of benefits
   
33.079   Cafeteria plan
Working Conditions
   
33.090   Work rules
   
33.091   Anti-theft policy
   
33.092   Use of town property
   
33.093   Use of cellular phones and electronic devices while driving
   
33.094   Social media policy
   
33.095   Drug free workplace
   
33.096   Smoking
   
33.097   Use of town telephones, fax machines, and town mail
   
33.098   Use of town provided computers, digital equipment, and internet access
   
33.099   Authorized use of town owned and/or leased vehicles
   
33.100   Take home vehicle policy
   
33.101   Travel and conferences
   
33.102   Training
   
33.103   Indiana Internal Control Standards policy
   
33.104   Materiality policy
Personal Conduct
   
33.115   Attendance and punctuality
   
33.116   Excessive tardiness/absenteeism
   
33.117   Unexcused tardiness/absenteeism
   
33.118   Excused tardiness/absenteeism
   
33.119   Dress code
   
33.120   Harassment/hostile work environment
   
33.121   Violence-free workplace
   
33.122   Employee conduct
   
33.123   Summary
GENERAL INFORMATION
§ 33.001 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The policies contained in this chapter and throughout the Town of
Monon Personnel Policies Handbook apply to all Town of Monon employees, except
when in direct conflict with special employment conditions set forth by various
statutes governing employment relationships.
   (B)   This Town of Monon Personnel Policies Handbook is designed to provide
employees with information about working conditions, employee benefits, and
some of the policies affecting employees employment. Employees should read,
understand, and comply with all provisions of the policy. The Town of Monon
Personnel Policies Handbook describes many responsibilities as an employee and
outlines the programs developed to benefit town employees. One of the town’s
objectives is to provide a work environment that is conducive to both personal
and professional growth.
   (C)   Nothing in this policy is intended to, in any sense, constitute a
contract of employment. Town of Monon is an "At-Will" employer which refers to
the nature of the employment relationship, which means that the employee may
resign at any time and the employer may discharge an employee at any time with
or without cause.
   (D)   This personnel policy is not a contract of employment and in no way
grants property interests or contractual rights to Town of Monon employees.
This policy does not create an entitlement or an expectation of continued
employment.
   (E)   No employee handbook can anticipate every circumstance or question
about policies. As the Town of Monon continues to grow, the need may arise to
change the policies described in the handbook. The Town of Monon therefore
reserves the right to revise, supplement, or rescind any policies or portion of
the policies from time to time as it deems appropriate, in its sole and
absolute discretion. Employees will, of course, be notified of such changes as
they occur.
   (F)   While the Town of Monon believes these policies are accurate, they are
only summaries, and any discrepancies between these summaries (such as
insurance policies) shall be governed by the actual terms of the underlying,
more detailed plan documents.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.002 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   The Town of Monon does not discriminate in employment opportunities or
practices on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (pregnancy, gender
identity, and sexual orientation), national origin, age (40 and over),
disability, genetic information as referenced in the Genetic Information
Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), military service veteran status, or any other
characteristic protected by federal, state and local laws.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.003 PRODUCTIVE WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   It is a policy of the Town of Monon to maintain a productive work
environment. Verbal or physical conduct by any supervisor or employee which
harasses, disrupts, or interferes with another's work performance or which
creates an intimidating, offensive, or hostile environment will not be
tolerated.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.004 AUTHORIZED ALIEN STATUS AND CITIZENSHIP.
   (A)   The Town of Monon is committed to employing only United States
citizens and aliens who are authorized to work in the United States and does
not unlawfully discriminate on the basis of citizenship or national origin.
   (B)   Applicants who refuse to or are unable to supply the documentation
necessary to prove that they are American citizens or aliens authorized to work
in this country will be dropped from consideration for the position.
   (C)   In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986,
each new employee, as a condition of employment, must complete Section 1 of the
Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9 at the time of hire. HIRE means
the beginning of employment in exchange for wages or other remuneration. The
time of hire is noted on the form as the first day of employment. and present
documentation establishing identity and employment eligibility within the first
three days of employment. Former employees who are rehired must also complete a
new I-9 form, if they have not completed the form with the town within the past
three years, or if their previous form is no longer retained or valid.
   (D)   Employees with questions or seeking more information on immigration
law issues are encouraged to contact the Clerk-Treasurer. Employees may raise
questions or complaints about immigration law compliance without fear of
reprisal. I-9 Forms are maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.005 E-VERIFY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall administer the E-Verify enrollment of all town
new-hires and shall ensure that appropriate forms are properly completed and
retained as required by law.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
§ 33.020 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Employment policies. The policies contained in this chapter and
throughout the Town of Monon Personnel Policies Handbook apply to all Town of
Monon employees, except when in direct conflict with special employment
conditions set forth by various statutes governing employment relationships.
   (B)   All full-time employees of the Town of Monon shall reside within 30
miles of the corporate limits of the Town of Monon. All new full-time employees
have one year from the date of hire to comply with these requirements.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.021 EMPLOYEE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Exempt employees. Exempt employees are in a supervisory or
professional position, or work for the Monon Police Department (less than five
man department) and not eligible for overtime payments for work in excess of 40
hours.
   (B)   Non-exempt employees. Non-exempt employees are eligible for overtime
payments for work in excess of 40 hours per week.
   (C)   Full-time employees. Full-time employees are those salaried or hourly
paid employees who are regularly scheduled to work at least 30 hours per week.
All full-time employees are eligible for benefits after the prescribed
applicable waiting period.
   (D)   Part-time employees. Part-time employees are those salaried or hourly
paid employees who are hired with the understanding that they will regularly
work less than 30 hours per week. Part- time employees will receive only those
benefits that are required by law. A part-time employee who becomes a full-time
employee will have benefits based on the date the employee becomes full-time.
   (E)   Temporary/seasonal employees. Temporary/seasonal employees are those
salaried or hourly paid employees who are hired with the understanding that
their tenure with the town is for a fixed period. Temporary/seasonal employees
may work any number of hours up to and including full-time. Temporary/seasonal
employees will receive only those benefits that are required by law. A
temporary/seasonal employee who becomes a full-time employee will have benefits
based on the date the employee becomes full-time.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.022 INTRODUCTORY PERIOD.
   (A)   The introductory period is intended to give new employees the
opportunity to demonstrate their ability to achieve a satisfactory level of
performance and to determine whether the new position meets their expectations.
The town uses this period to evaluate employee capabilities, work habits, and
overall performance.
   (B)   All new and rehired employees work on an introductory basis for the
first 90 days after their date of hire. Any significant absence will
automatically extend the introductory period by the length of the absence.
   (C)   If the town determines that the designated introductory period does
not allow sufficient time to thoroughly evaluate the employee's performance,
the introductory period may be extended for a specified period.
   (D)   During the introductory period, new employees are eligible for those
benefits that are required by law, such as Workers' Compensation Insurance and
Social Security.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.023 ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILES.
   (A)   Access to confidential personnel files shall be limited to the
employee, the Town Council/department head of the employee, Town Attorney,
Clerk-Treasurer, and other persons authorized by the Town Attorney on a need-
to-know basis. The Clerk-Treasurer shall not provide any information pursuant
to a subpoena or court order sooner than ten calendar days after the date of
receipt of the subpoena or court order.
   (B)   Within five calendar days of the receipt of a subpoena, the Town
Attorney shall notify the affected employee(s) of the receipt to permit the
employee(s) to seek any appropriate judicial relief from the subpoena.
   (C)   With reasonable advance notice, an employee may review material in
his/her file in the presence of the Clerk-Treasurer. Upon request, the town
will provide the employee with copies of any documents contained in his/her
personnel file. Employees shall be responsible for copy fees that apply.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.024 PERSONAL INFORMATION CHANGES.
   It is the responsibility of each employee to promptly notify the Clerk-
Treasurer of any changes in personal data. Personal mailing addresses,
telephone numbers, change in family status for insurance purposes, tax
exemptions for tax withholdings, individuals to be contacted in the event of an
emergency, educational accomplishments, driver's license status and proof of
insurance (where applicable), and other such status reports should be accurate
and current at all times. If any personal data that affects payroll, benefits,
or Workers' Compensation records has changed, employees are to notify,
complete, and submit the appropriate form to the Clerk-Treasurer's office. Any
unreported changes in personal status may impact eligibility under the town's
benefits plans.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.025 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   In the course of your employment with the town, you may have access to
information which is confidential, including, but not limited to, information
about new town projects, accounting records, insurance records, personnel
records, and information about the citizens of our town. You shall not use,
disclose, or divulge confidential information about the town or its citizens to
any third party, without prior authorization.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.026 PERFORMANCE REVIEW AND WAGE INCREASES.
   During the first year of employment with the town, job performance will be
reviewed three times. Reviews of full-time hourly employees will be given by
the department head or Town Council after the initial 90 day probationary
period, again at six months and then around the one-year anniversary. After
receiving the one-year review, an annual performance review for all employees
will be given during the month of June by the department head or Town Council.
At these reviews, the reviewer will discuss an employee's progress with the
town, past accomplishments, performance shortcomings (if any), attendance,
safety record, and overall performance on the job. The Clerk-Treasurer will
evaluate all office employees. All evaluations shall be properly documented and
kept in the employee's permanent personnel file in the Clerk-Treasurer's
office.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.027 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Employees may hold outside jobs as long as they meet the performance
standards of their job with the town. All employees will be judged by the same
performance standards and will be subject to the Town of Monon scheduling
demands, regardless of any existing outside work requirements.
   (B)   If the town determines that an employee's outside work interferes with
performance or the ability to meet the requirements of the Town of Monon, as
modified from time to time, the employee may be asked to terminate the outside
employment if he/she wishes to remain with the town.
   (C)   Outside employment that constitutes a conflict of interest is
prohibited. Employees may not receive any income or material gain from
individuals outside the town for materials produced or services rendered while
performing their town jobs.
   (D)   Employees who are provided medical leave under the town's policy for
their own serious illness or injury shall not be employed by outside employers
when on leave of absence.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.028 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2012 I.C. 36-1-20.2 specifies that relatives may not
be employed by the town in positions that result in one relative being in the
direct line of supervision of the other relative.
   (B)   An employee who is employed by the town as of June 30, 2012, is not
subject to the nepotism provision unless the employee has a break in employment
with the Town of Monon.
   (C)   Direct line of supervision is defined as an elected officer or
employee who is able to affect the terms and conditions of another individual's
employment, including making decisions about work assignments, compensation,
grievances, advancement, or performance evaluation.
   (D)   Indiana Code defines RELATIVE to include a spouse; a parent or
stepparent; a child or stepchild; a brother, sister, stepbrother, or
stepsister; a niece or nephew; an aunt or uncle; a daughter-in-law or son-in-
law; an adopted child; and a brother or sister by half blood. For the purpose
of this policy, the Town of Monon definition of relative will also include
mother-in-law, and father-in-law, effective as of adoption of the policy
handbook.
   (E)   Each elected office holder of the town shall annually certify in
writing that the officer is in compliance with the nepotism policy under I.C.
36-1-20.2. Such certification must be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer not
later than December 31 of each year.
   (F)   An elected official or department head that is in violation of this
policy may be subject to penalties for perjury which is a level 6 felony with
up to three years prison sentence.
   (G)   The town's failure to adopt policies under I.C. 36-1-20.2 will result
in the Department of Local Government Finance not approving the town's budget
or any additional appropriations for the ensuing calendar year until the State
Board of Accounts certifies the town is compliant.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
SALARY ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.035 WORK HOURS.
   (A)   Salary administration. The policies contained in this chapter and
throughout the Town of Monon Personnel Policies Handbook apply to all Town of
Monon employees, except when in direct conflict with special employment
conditions set forth by various statutes governing employment relationships.
   (B)   The usual workweek for employees of the Town of Monon is Monday
through Friday. All personnel will be expected to work a five consecutive day
workweek. Employees are expected to work an actual eight hours with the town
providing two 15-minute breaks to be taken as one in the morning and one in the
afternoon. Unpaid lunch periods are 60 minutes long. Employees shall take their
full lunch period unless emergency situations arise preventing the employee
from doing so, or they have been given prior approval by their department head.
The Town Council must approve any variation of this each year.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.036 WAGE POLICY.
   Violations of the sick leave and/or vacation policy of the county shall be
penalized as follows:
   (A)   Unauthorized time away from work shall be subtracted from existing
leave time in the following order: accrued compensatory time, vacation time,
and sick time.
   (B)   If a non-exempt employee has no existing leave time as described
above, unauthorized time from work shall be docked from his/her wages on an
hourly basis.
   (C)   The penalty for exempt employees paid at a salary rate shall be
computed by the normal workdays in a year divided into the gross yearly salary
(daily rate).
   (D)   An employee cannot be granted time off without pay if they have
remaining compensatory time, excess benefit time, vacation time, unless
otherwise stated in written policy (i.e.: military leave).
   (E)   The wages of an elected official cannot be decreased or increased as
set by the salary ordinance, unless by statutory exception.
   (F)   Additional disciplinary actions may be taken for violations of paid
leave policies, up to and including termination of employment with the Town of
Monon.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.037 FLSA TIMEKEEPING.
   (A)   Accurately recording time worked is the responsibility of every
employee. Federal and state laws require the Town of Monon to keep an accurate
record of time worked in order to calculate employee pay and benefits. Time
worked is all the time actually spent on the job performing assigned duties.
   (B)   The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) requires that certain records be
kept on each covered non-exempt worker. The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
requires that certain records be kept on each covered worker. The record must
include accurate information about the employee and data about hours worked and
wages earned. Employers are required to maintain the following records:
      (1)   Employee's full name, as used for Social Security purposes, and on
the same record, the employee's identifying symbol or number if such is used in
place of name on any time, work, or payroll records;
      (2)   Address, including zip code;
      (3)   Birth date if younger than 19;
      (4)   Sex and occupation;
      (5)   Time of day of the week when employee's workweek begins, hours
worked each day, and total hours worked each workweek and work period;
      (6)   Basis on which the employee's wages are paid;
      (7)   Regular hourly rate;
      (8)   Total daily or weekly straight-time earnings;
      (9)   Total overtime earnings for the workweek or work period;
      (10)   All additions to or deductions from the employee's wages;
      (11)   Total wages paid each pay period; and
      (12)   Date of payment and the pay period covered by the payment.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.038 INDIANA TIMEKEEPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   I.C. 5-11-9-4 requires that all public sector employees (except
elected officials) maintain records showing which hours were worked each day by
officers and employees. These employee service records are subject to audit as
prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   All employees must accurately record the time they begin, and end work
each day. They also must record the hours of any departure or absence from work
for personal reasons. Overtime work must always be approved before it is
performed, and an unencumbered balance must exist in the budget for that
department for overtime purposes. Working any unauthorized overtime hours may
result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
   (C)   Altering, falsifying, tampering with employee service records/
timesheets, or recording time for another employee's time record may result in
disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
   (D)   It is the employee's responsibility to complete and sign his or her
employee service record/timesheet to certify the accuracy of all time recorded.
The Clerk-Treasurer or department head will review and then sign the record.
The employee service record shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   In addition, if corrections or modifications are made to the employee
service record/timesheet, both the employee and the Clerk-Treasurer or
department head must verify the accuracy of the changes by signing off on the
employee service record/timesheet.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.039 WORK TIME RESTRICTED.
   Non-exempt employees should report to work no more than seven minutes prior
to their scheduled starting time, nor stay more than seven minutes after their
scheduled stop time, without prior authorization from their supervisor.
Deviations of up to seven minutes will not have an impact on overtime,
compensatory time, or a reduction in pay calculations.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.040 ROUNDING.
   Time is to be recorded to the quarter (1/4) hour, using the seven minute
rule (i.e., leeway of seven minutes before and seven minutes after scheduled
start and stop time). All employee work commenced more than seven minutes
before the start time work hour will be paid on a quarter hour schedule; all
employee work continued more than seven minutes after the end of the last work
hour will be paid on a quarter (1/4) hour schedule.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.041 PAY DAY.
   Regular, part-time, and temporary employees as well as the Clerk-Treasurer
will be paid by check or direct deposit on Wednesday, every two weeks. If a
payday falls on a holiday, your paycheck will be available on the last workday
before the holiday. The pay period is hereby defined as bi-weekly. The bi-
weekly term for such pay represents the 14 day period, commencing at 12:01 a.m.
Saturday and extending to and concluding on midnight of the second following
Friday, immediately preceding the week of the scheduled payday. It is the
policy of the town not to make any advances of wages. It is prohibited under
I.C. 5-7-3-1.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.042 CELL PHONE ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Cell phones are required for some positions. The purpose of carrying
such a device is to provide 24-hour access to better serve citizens and
increase productivity. Those positions are designated by each department head,
as well as the level of access required to be maintained by the employee on
behalf of the Town of Monon. When an employee is not supplied a cell phone by
the town, the determination of the wireless carrier will be up to the employee.
The employee is required to pay his or her own bill and to supply the phone as
prescribed by their department head.
   (B)   Employees who meet the above conditions will be paid a cell phone
allowance of $50 per month payable twice a year, $300 in January and $300 in
June.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.043 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   Uniform apparel other than safety equipment is a noncash benefit provided to
eligible full-time employees. Employees eligible for clothing allowance include
Municipal Superintendent, Wastewater Operator, Laborer 1A and Laborer 1B. The
allowance of $500 per year is provided for replacement of work clothing,
including coats and steel toe boots, and is subject to applicable withholding.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.044 PAYROLL DEDUCTION.
   The law requires that we make certain deductions from your paycheck for
federal income tax, state income tax, Social Security, and any other applicable
taxes. These deductions will vary depending upon how much you earn and how many
dependents you have. It is the employee's responsibility to report any change
in marital status or number of dependents to the Clerk-Treasurer. Except where
expressly indicated otherwise, no deduction, other than those named above, will
be made from your check without your consent.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.045 EMPLOYMENT-AT-WILL.
   Full and part-time employment is for no definite term. This means that you
and the town have an "employment-at-will" relationship. In such a relationship
you may end your employment with the town at any time. The town does request
that you give at least two weeks' written notice prior to leaving. No written
or oral promises have been made to employees regarding the length of their
employment.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.046 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE/VOLUNTEER FIREMAN.
   A full-time employee who is also a member of the Monon Volunteer Fire
Department or Monon First Response shall not be entitled to compensation from
the Monon Volunteer Fire Department or Monon First Response when responding to
fire or EMT calls while on duty at their regular full-time position.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.047 OVERTIME.
   In accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), the town must
compensate a non-exempt employee for all hours worked in excess of 40 in a
workweek. Time worked over 40-hours per week will be paid at time and one half.
Time off for vacation benefits, bereavement leave, or other leave time will not
be considered as hours worked for the purpose of calculating overtime. Holiday
hours will be counted as hours worked for the purpose of calculating overtime
hours. Exempt employees will not receive overtime pay unless specifically
authorized by the Town Council. The Town Marshal and Deputy Marshal, with the
permission of the Town Council, have the possibility of overtime with Operation
Pullover and any other grants.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.048 COMPENSATORY TIME.
   In lieu of the payment of overtime, non-exempt employees may be provided
compensatory time in the amount of time and one half for all hours worked over
40 in a workweek. The employee may utilize their compensatory time when
approved by a department head. Compensatory time is capped at 80 hours per
calendar year. The town will pay out all unused compensatory time at the end of
each calendar year. Employees with more than 40 hours of compensatory time off
may make a request from the Clerk-Treasurer to receive payment on two separate
paychecks at the end of the calendar year.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.049 FLEX TIME.
   Flex time is time used for time in the same workweek. When a department head
has approved an employee to work in excess of their regular daily work
schedule, the department head may grant time off to the employee for the excess
time worked in the same workweek.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
§ 33.060 VACATION.
   (A)   Employee benefits. The policies contained in this chapter and
throughout the Town of Monon Personnel Policies Handbook apply to all Town of
Monon employees, except when in direct conflict with special employment
conditions set forth by various statutes governing employment relationships.
   (B)   The Town of Monon recognizes the need to provide paid vacation leave
for its employees. All full-time employees shall receive one day of vacation
pay (straight time base rate) each year for the employee's birthday in addition
to the following schedule:
      (1)   One-year continuous service: five days.
      (2)   Two to five years of continuous service: ten days.
      (3)   Six or more years of continuous service: 15 days.
   (C)   Vacation days will be earned on a calendar year basis. Vacation time
will not be included in overtime calculations.
   (D)   Regarding the vacation days referenced above, one day shall equal
eight hours. An employee must give the department head 48 hours written notice
of intention to take a vacation day, unless an emergency arises, and then the
employee shall notify the office or the Clerk-Treasurer as soon as possible.
Vacation days may be taken in full week increments or a single day at a time.
Only regular scheduled workdays may be counted as vacation days. Vacation time
will not accrue from year to year. If the employee does not use his or her
vacation time by the end of the calendar year, the vacation time will be
forfeited.
   (E)   If an employee is involuntarily terminated by the Town of Monon, the
Town of Monon will pay any unused vacation leave.
   (F)   If an employee voluntarily resigns their position, the Town of Monon
will pay any unused vacation leave due to the employee in the year of
resignation provided that the employee gives appropriate notice. Non-exempt
employees must give two weeks' notice and exempt employees must give four
weeks' notice. In the event of an employee's death, payment for any unused
vacation leave will be made to the employee's estate.
   (G)   Vacation time shall not be used to extend an employee's termination
date.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.061 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the Town of Monon to ensure that all full-
time employees receive the same number of holidays each year. Employees must
complete their probationary status period before they are eligible for paid
holidays. Paid holidays include:
      (1)   New Year's Day;
      (2)   Martin Luther King Day;
      (3)   President's Day;
      (4)   Good Friday;
      (5)   Memorial Day;
      (6)   Independence Day;
      (7)   Labor Day;
      (8)   Columbus Day;
      (9)   Veterans Day;
      (10)   Thanksgiving Day; and
      (11)   Christmas.
      (12)   If a recognized holiday falls on a Saturday, the previous Friday
will be observed as the holiday. If the holiday falls on a Sunday, the
following Monday will be observed.
   (B)   Employees will be paid for eight hours for the holidays listed above.
To be eligible for holiday pay, you must have worked on your regularly
scheduled shift the day before the holiday and the day after the holiday, the
exception is when an employee is on vacation. If an employee is required to
work a paid holiday, he/she will receive eight hours for the paid holiday, plus
time and one-half for the hours worked.
   (C)   Holiday hours will be included in the calculations of overtime.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.062 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   All full-time employees shall be eligible for sick leave after
completion of the 90-day probationary period. Days are awarded on a calendar
year basis at the rate of nine days per year. An employee shall be allowed to
accumulate a maximum of 90 sick days. No time will accrue after the available
balance reaches 90 days.
   (B)   If an employee is involuntarily terminated by the Town of Monon, the
Town of Monon will pay any unused sick leave.
   (C)   If an employee voluntarily resigns their position, the Town of Monon
will pay any unused sick leave due to the employee in the year of resignation
provided that the employee gives appropriate notice. Non-exempt employees must
give two weeks' notice and exempt employees must give four weeks' notice. In
the event of an employee's death, payment for any unused sick leave will be
made to the employee's estate.
   (D)   Sick days may not be used in advance of earning the time. Sick days
may be used for such circumstances as an employee's or a family member's
illness, for an employee's or family member's doctor's appointment, or when an
employee is responsible for the care/treatment of his/her sick child. These
days must be used in full (eight hour), half day (four hour), or 15-minute
increments.
   (E)   Abuse of sick leave privilege can be used as consideration in
disciplinary actions. The Clerk-Treasurer will keep an individual up-to-date
record on all employees. Employees must have 48 hours prior approval from their
department head for more than three continuous days.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.063 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   (A)   If a death should occur in your immediate family, you may be given
personal time off with pay to attend the funeral if you are a full-time
employee who has completed the 90-day probationary period with the town. The
pay will be for the time lost from work because of the death, but not to exceed
eight hours per day at your straight time rate, up to a maximum of five days.
   (B)   Bereavement leave will not be included in the calculation of overtime.
   (C)   You will not be paid for funeral leave on days for which you are
otherwise compensated (holidays, vacation, etc.) and the five days must fall
within consecutive workdays or be approved by the department head. One of the
five days must either be the date of death or the date of funeral. Immediate
family is defined as current spouse, child, stepchild, parent or stepparent,
current mother-in-law, current father-in-law, brother, sister, grandparents,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent-in-laws or grandchildren or any
family member residing in the employee's household.
   (D)   Employees shall receive two days of leave upon the death of an aunt,
uncle, niece, nephew, or cousin. If the employee feels that he/she needs more
than one day, vacation time can be used with the permission of the department
head.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.064 TIME OFF TO VOTE.
   Employees who may be required to work on an Election Day should find time to
vote either before or after their working hours. If nonexempt employees are
unable to vote in an election during their nonworking hours, the Town of Monon
may grant a maximum of one hour of unpaid time off to vote.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.065 COURT AND JURY DUTY.
   (A)   The Town of Monon encourages employees to fulfill their civic
responsibilities by serving jury duty when required. Non-exempt employees are
required to return to his/her scheduled shift once released from jury duty.
   (B)   Employees must show the jury duty summons to their department head as
soon as possible so that the supervisor may arrange to accommodate their
absence.
   (C)   The per diem amount paid to an employee for jury duty shall be turned
over to the Town of Monon Clerk-Treasurer. The employee shall keep mileage
compensation.
   (D)   Either the Town of Monon or the employee may request an excuse from
jury duty, if in the town's judgment, the employee's absence would create
serious operational difficulties.
   (E)   Jury duty pay will be calculated on the employee's rate of pay times
the number of hours the employee would otherwise have worked on the day of
absence.
   (F)   The Town of Monon encourages employees to appear in court for witness
duty when subpoenaed to do so. If employees have been subpoenaed or otherwise
requested to testify as witnesses by the town, they will receive full pay for
the entire period of witness duty. Other court appearances will require use of
vacation days or compensatory time. Employees are expected to report for work
whenever the court schedule permits.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.066 FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (FMLA).
   (A)   The town shall comply with all regulations as described in the Family
and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) of 1993 including all subsequent revisions. This
policy serves as a general description of employee's FMLA rights; therefore, in
the event a conflict arises between this policy and applicable law, employees
shall be granted all such rights allowed by law. Town of Monon shall adhere to
the "General Notice Requirements" prescribed by the Department of Labor through
the following actions:
      (1)   Posting required FMLA information explaining provisions of the Act
and procedures for filing complaints of violations of the Act with the Wage and
Hour Division of the Department of Labor. This information shall be posted
prominently where it can be readily viewed by employees and applicants for
employment; and
      (2)   Providing this general notice to each town employee by including
the notice in the Personnel Policies Handbook or other written guidance to
employees concerning employee benefits and leave rights. The general notice may
be distributed electronically as deemed appropriate by the Town of Monon.
   (B)   Any full-time employee who has been employed by the Town of Monon for
at least 12 months and who has provided at least 1,250 hours of service, shall
be given up to 12 unpaid work weeks of leave during any 12-month period. This
time would be used to recover from a serious health condition, care for a newly
born or adopted child, or care for a spouse, parent or child who is suffering
from a serious health condition.
   (C)   A serious health condition is an illness, injury, impairment or
physical or mental condition, involving either inpatient care or continuing
treatment by a health care provider.
   (D)   An employee may take leave for the birth or placement of a child only
within 12 weeks of that birth or placement, and an employee must provide 30
days advance written notice before the date on which the leave would begin. If
the employee is unable to provide 30 days written notice, he or she must
provide "such notice as is practical".
   (E)   The employee must use their paid vacation and/or sick leave, during
the 12 week period, to be paid bi-weekly according to the employee's normal
work scheduled hours until exhausted.
   (F)   The employee desiring to take leave due to his/her own or a family
member's serious health condition must provide certification of the condition
from a health care provider including the following:
      (1)   The date on which the serious health condition in question began.
      (2)   The probable duration of the condition.
      (3)   Appropriate medical facts regarding the condition.
      (4)   A statement that the employee is needed to care for the family
member along with an estimate of how long the care will be required, or a
statement that the employee is unable to perform his/her duties because of the
serious health condition.
   (G)   Failure to return from FMLA without written authorization from the
town will be considered a voluntary resignation.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.067 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA).
   (A)   It is the policy of the Town of Monon that qualified individuals with
disabilities are not excluded from participating in or benefitting from the
services, programs, or activities of the town.
   (B)   It is the policy of the town not to discriminate against a qualified
individual with a disability in job application procedures; the hiring,
advancement, or discharge of employees; employee compensation; job training;
and other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment. It is the intent of
this town to comply with all applicable requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA).
   (C)   If a person is not able to perform the essential functions of a job,
even with reasonable accommodation, then the person is not qualified for the
position.
   (D)   The town will reasonably accommodate persons within the requirements
of the law. Such reasonable accommodation may include making facilities readily
accessible to individuals with a disability, restructuring jobs, modifying work
schedules, modifying equipment, or other similar accommodations.
   (E)   Accommodation may not create undue hardship for the town or other
employees. An individual who cannot be reasonably accommodated for a job,
without undue hardship, will not be selected for that position.
   (F)   All employees are required to comply with safety standards. Applicants
who pose a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals in the
workplace, which threat cannot be eliminated by reasonable accommodation, will
not be hired.
   (G)   Current employees who pose a direct threat to the health or safety of
the other individuals in the workplace will be placed on appropriate leave.
   (H)   Disabled individuals cannot pose a direct threat to the safety of
themselves or others. Generally, a "direct threat" means a significant risk to
the health or safety of others that cannot be eliminated by reasonable
accommodation.
   (I)   Benefits provided to disabled individuals who are qualified to perform
the work are not different from the benefits provided to other employees.
   (J)   Members of the public, including individuals with disabilities and
groups representing individuals with disabilities, are encouraged to submit
suggestions to the Town of Monon ADA Coordinator on how the town might better
meet the needs of individuals with disabilities pursuant to this policy.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.068 WORKER'S COMPENSATION.
   All on-the-job injuries must be reported to the department head or Clerk-
Treasurer immediately. If a full- time employee is injured while performing
his/her job for the Town of Monon, an Incident Report must be filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer within 24 hours of the injury. There is a seven calendar day
waiting period required by Worker's Compensation before benefits are paid. If
an employee is off 21 calendar days or longer, Worker's Compensation will then
pay the employee for the seven day waiting period. If the employee is off less
than the 21 days, the town will then pay the employee for the days regularly
scheduled to work in that seven day waiting period after the employee returns
to work.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.069 WORKPLACE SAFETY.
   (A)   All employees are responsible for maintaining a safe workplace.
Employees must consider safety as an essential aspect of their job. Specific
rules vary from job to job. The following rules apply to all jobs and have been
established for employee protection:
      (1)   Use safety equipment and follow the safety procedures for each job.
      (2)   If an injury or illness occurs while on the job, employee must
notify the department head or Clerk-Treasurer. All injuries, no matter how
slight, must be reported at once. In any case, employee should never treat
their own, or another employee's injury, nor remove foreign particles from the
eye.
      (3)   If an employee desire to leave work before the end of a scheduled
workday because of illness or injury, the employee is to notify the department
head immediately.
      (4)   Report immediately any unsafe acts, hazards, equipment, or
condition, which is a safety hazard. Before starting any job, employee should
be sure they understand the job and the hazards involved.
      (5)   If treatment is required for an injury, notify the Clerk-Treasurer
so that proper OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) records can
be maintained.
      (6)   Aisles, passageways, and floors shall be kept clean, dry, in a
sanitary condition and free from stumbling and tripping hazards always.
      (7)   Guards and other safety devices are installed for employee
protection. Do not remove them except for maintenance purposes and replace all
guards before starting equipment. Never tie down or block guards on machinery.
Federal law requires guards. These guards are there for employee protection and
safety.
      (8)   Before doing any type of work on moving machinery, it must be
stopped and disconnected from electrical source to prevent accidental start-up.
      (9)   Before using any ladder, employee must see that it has good safety
feet and is free from cracks, broken rungs, and other defects. When necessary
to prevent slipping, employee should have another worker hold the bottom of the
ladder.
      (10)   Do not attempt to lift or push objects that may be heavy. ASK FOR
HELP when needed.
      (11)   Shut down machines before cleaning, adjusting or repairing.
      (12)   Never use defective tools such as chisels, sledgehammers, punches,
wrenches, etc.
      (13)   Replace or ensure that defective tools are repaired.
      (14)   Know the location of the nearest fire extinguisher in employee
vehicle or work area.
      (15)   Do not wear gloves, ragged, or loose clothing around moving
equipment.
      (16)   If working where there are heavy fumes or dust, make sure there is
proper ventilation.
      (17)   If someone is working carelessly and is liable to be hurt, warn
him/her about it and advise him/her to work carefully.
      (18)   Do not make electrical repairs unless employee is qualified to
make those repairs. Make sure all power is off. Never touch any loose or broken
electrical wires.
      (19)   Pay attention to warning signs, they indicate danger.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.070 GROUP MEDICAL AND LIFE INSURANCE.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to change, alter, modify, or cancel the
insurance plan coverage with or without notification. Group medical and life
insurance for all full-time employees will take effect after the 90-day
probationary period. The Clerk-Treasurer will be eligible for insurance
benefits upon taking office.
      (1)   Employee paid premiums:
         (a)   Employee only: $82.24/month.
         (b)   Employee and child(ren): $155/month.
         (c)   Employee and spouse: $180.32/month.
         (d)   Family: $249.10/month.
      (2)   Town paid premiums:
         (a)   Employee only: $885.26/month.
         (b)   Employee and child(ren): $1,668.50/month.
         (c)   Employee and spouse: $1,941.18/month.
         (d)   Family: $2,681.40/month.
      (3)   Employees will only be allowed to carry coverage on a spouse if the
spouse is not employed, or the spouse is employed but spouse's employer does
not offer health insurance. The town will cover dependents up to 26 years of
age with health insurance. employees shall provide proof of full-time schooling
to the Clerk-Treasurer's office every semester.
   (B)   For any dependent(s) over 26 not in school, premium will be paid 100%
by the employee.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.071 DENTAL INSURANCE.
   (A)   The Town of Monon will pay 100% of the dental insurance premiums for
all eligible full-time employees and the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   Employee only: $28.07/month.
      (2)   Employee and child(ren): $74.89/month.
      (3)   Employee and spouse: $57.27/month.
      (4)   Family: $111.08/month.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.072 VISION INSURANCE.
   (A)   The Town of Monon will pay 100% of the vision insurance premiums for
all eligible full-time employees and the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   Employee only: $5.04/month.
      (2)   Employee and child(ren): $9.57/month.
      (3)   Employee and spouse: $8.82/month.
      (4)   Family: $14.61/month.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.073 LIFE INSURANCE.
   The town will provide all eligible full-time employees and the Clerk-
Treasurer with $15,000 life insurance coverage at no additional cost to the
employee.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.074 IDENTITY THEFT PROTECTION.
   (A)   The town will pay for employee only identity theft protection for all
full-time employees and the Clerk-Treasurer. Employees may elect to carry
coverage on spouse or dependents at their own expense to be paid by payroll
deduction. Employees may make changes to their coverage at any time.
      (1)   Employee only: $4.37/month.
      (2)   Family: $18.96/month.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.075 LEGAL SHIELD.
   (A)   Employees of the Town of Monon can choose to enroll in Legal Shield
services at their own expense.
      (1)   Employee only: $8.75/month.
      (2)   Family: $8.75/month.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.076 INDIANA PUBLIC RETIREMENT SYSTEM (INPRS).
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer and eligible full-time employees may participate
in the Indiana Public Retirement System (INPRS). The town shall contribute the
11.2% mandatory employers' contribution and the 3.0% employee's mandatory
contribution. The benefits, costs, and administration are determined by current
INPRS directives and will be paid 100% from either the General, MVH, Sewer, and
Water Funds.
   (B)   An employee may, on a voluntary basis, have up to 10% more taken from
his/her paycheck. Forms for the voluntary contribution may be obtained from the
Clerk-Treasurer, filled out and then returned to the Clerk-Treasurer to be kept
on file.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.077 LONGEVITY.
   (A)   A full-time employee of the Town of Monon shall receive, in addition
to his/her regular salary, longevity pay as determined by the following
schedule.
      (1)   After two full consecutive calendar years of employment, a $100
bonus will be paid as a stipend.
      (2)   After three, four and five years of consecutive employment, an
additional $50 will be added each year cumulatively.
      (3)   After six through ten consecutive full calendar years of employment
a $100 bonus will be added cumulatively each year.
      (4)   After ten through 15 consecutive full calendar years of employment
a $150 bonus will be added each year cumulatively.
      (5)   At 15 years of consecutive employment, the bonus will be frozen
thereafter at $1,500 per year.
   (B)    The following longevity pay chart shall illustrate the longevity pay
for consecutive years of completed years of service.
2024 S2
   Personnel   44A
COMPLETED YEARS OF SERVICE LONGEVITY PAID THE ENSUING YEAR
1                          $0
2                          $100
3                          $150
4                          $200
5                          $250
6                          $350
7                          $450
8                          $550
9                          $650
10                         $750
11                         $900
12                         $1,050
13                         $1,200
14                         $1,350
15                         $1,500
 
   (C)   Longevity pay will be paid to the employee on the first pay of the
year. Longevity pay is not included in the calculation of overtime.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.078 ELECTIVE WAIVER OF BENEFITS.
   Any employee or elected office of the municipality, may decline and waive
any of the benefits conferred and set forth in the Compensation and Benefits
Ordinance, provided such waiver be in writing, in a form approved by the Town
Attorney, a copy of which shall be retained and placed on file with the
municipality. Such a waiver may not be rescinded once executed without
authorization of the Monon Town Council.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.079 CAFETERIA PLAN.
   The cafeteria plan as laid out in Ord. 2023-01 and adopted by the town on
March 15, 2023 is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this code
as if laid out in full herein.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-15-2023)
WORKING CONDITIONS
§ 33.090 WORK RULES.
   (A)   Working conditions. The policies contained in this chapter and
throughout the Town of Monon Personnel Policies Handbook apply to all Town of
Monon employees, except when in direct conflict with special employment
conditions set forth by various statutes governing employment relationships.
   (B)   Work rules.
      (1)   The work rules set forth below have been established by the town to
ensure that all employees are provided with a safe, orderly, and productive
work environment. They describe certain acts that have been determined to be
violations of acceptable work behavior. Employees are expected to read these
rules carefully and to conduct yourself accordingly. The town will endeavor to
follow the procedures set forth below. Alleged violations of the rules will be
investigated to see if they are supported by facts. Employees will be given the
opportunity to present their side of the incident before final disciplinary
action is taken. When it is determined that the work rules have been
disregarded or violated, employee will be subject to one of the following forms
of disciplinary action: a verbal warning, a written warning, a final written
warning, or discharge.
      (2)   These work rules do not constitute an exhaustive list of all the
acts that will subject an employee to disciplinary action. No set of work rules
can cover all situations and the penalties may be waived or increased depending
on the particular facts involved. They do cover the most common types of
employment misconduct. Cases of unacceptable work behavior not covered by these
rules will be handled on an individual basis, subject to such penalties as the
Town Council may deem appropriate for the type of misconduct involved.
Employees should note that an accumulation of offenses over a period of time
that have not been corrected, even though unrelated, is unacceptable.
Accordingly, it is the town's policy to discharge any employee who has been
disciplined on three previous occasions during any 12 month period whether
because of specific work rule violations, unsatisfactory job performance, other
misconduct, or any combination thereof.
   (C)   Work violations. Employees who commit any of the following acts, which
have been determined to be violations of acceptable work behavior, will be
subject to corrective disciplinary action through the procedures established
for performance management.
      (1)   Exceeding time limits on break (15 minutes) or meal periods (60
minutes) or taking break or meal periods other than the designated times
without proper authorization.
      (2)   Stopping or leaving work before the end of a scheduled work period
without proper authorization.
      (3)   Sleeping, loafing, or wasting time during a scheduled work period.
      (4)   Using work hours for personal matters. This includes making or
receiving excessive non-emergency personal telephone calls during scheduled
work periods.
      (5)   Directing profane, abusive, insulting, or threatening language at a
fellow employee.
      (6)   Creating disharmony among employees or interfering with other
employees on the job.
      (7)   Working time is for work. Solicitation by employees is prohibited
during the working time of the solicitor and the employee being solicited.
Distribution of literature by employees, including handbills, leaflets,
circulars, or other matter is prohibited in any working area. WORKING TIME
means the time when you are scheduled to work as opposed to mealtime breaks,
etc.
      (8)   Posting materials on bulletin board without the prior approval or
defacing, marking, damaging, destroying, or removing materials posted on the
bulletin board authorized by management.
      (9)   Failure to observe safety rules or regulations or engaging in any
other unsafe or unhealthful conduct.
      (10)   Engaging in conduct which violates the town's policy concerning
business ethics and conflicts of interest.
      (11)   Failures to report any work-related injury or accident no matter
how minor.
      (12)   Poor workmanship, low productivity, or substandard performance.
   (D)   Serious work violations. Employees who commit any of the following
acts, which have been determined to be serious violations of acceptable work
behavior will be subject to discipline, up to and including discharge, for the
first offense.
      (1)   Insubordination, including failure or refusal to promptly carry out
the orders or instructions of the department head or Town Council while on duty
or on town property.
      (2)   Provoking or engaging in a fight while on duty or on town property.
      (3)   Threatening physical harm to a supervisor, member of management,
citizen, or fellow employee.
      (4)   Directing profane, abusive, insulting, or threatening language at a
supervisor, member of management, fellow employee, or citizen.
      (5)   Destruction, damage or abuse of town property or the property of
other employees, or citizens.
      (6)   Theft of town property or the property of other employees or
citizens, or the unauthorized use or possession of any such property.
      (7)   Possession, display or use of explosives, or other dangerous
weapons while on duty or on town property unless your job specifically requires
such use or possession. Per Indiana State law, legally owned firearms must be
kept locked/secured in employee's personal vehicle.
      (8)   Using, possession, selling, distributing or being under the
influence of alcoholic beverages, illegal drugs, or controlled substances while
on duty or on town property.
      (9)   Commission of any criminal offense (other than a minor traffic
violation) while on duty or on town property, or commission of any criminal
offense, which might adversely affect the employee's work or work
relationships.
      (10)   Misrepresentation or omission of material facts on an employment
application or any other document used to secure or retain employment with the
town.
      (11)   Acts of dishonesty, including falsification or alteration of time
sheets, production records, or any other documents used in connection with
work.
      (12)   Punching/marking another employee's timecard or having another
employee punch/mark your timecard.
      (13)   Encouraging or engaging in any unprotected work stoppage,
slowdown, walkout, cessation of work or any other activity designed to restrict
or delay the production, shipment, delivery or receipt of goods or services by
the town.
      (14)   Engaging in acts of sexual harassment.
   (E)   The town recognizes that there are going to be times when employees
have a problem or complaint that needs to be resolved. When an employee has a
work-related complaint, he/she shall discuss the complaint with his/her
department head. The employee and the department head shall make every effort
to resolve the matter. If the matter does not get resolved, then the employee
may take the problem to the Town Council.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.091 ANTI-THEFT POLICY.
   The security of employee property, the town's property, and the property of
our citizens is a serious concern of the municipality. In the event of theft or
suspected theft, the town will thoroughly investigate the matter. Law
enforcement may be called to investigate such thefts. Any employee caught
stealing will subject themselves to possible criminal prosecution and/or
termination from employment with the Town of Monon.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.092 USE OF TOWN PROPERTY.
   Use of town property such as tools, material, equipment, etc. without
permission is strictly prohibited. Permission must be requested from the
department head and the department head will communicate the request to the
Town Council for approval. Town property cannot be used for personal profit.
Failure to obtain approval for use of town property will result in disciplinary
action, up to and including dismissal.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.093 USE OF CELLULAR PHONES AND ELECTRONIC DEVICES WHILE DRIVING.
   (A)   The use of cellular phones and electronic devices while driving may
present a hazard to the driver, other employees, and the public. This policy is
meant to ensure the safe operation of town vehicles and equipment, and the safe
operation of private vehicles while an employee is on work time conducting town
business. This policy applies to all uses of cellular phones and communication
devices, except for police officers, including, but not limited to, computers,
text messaging, e-mail, electronic calendars, multi-media devices, and
printers.
   (B)   Employees shall adhere to all federal, state, and local rules and
regulations regarding the use of cellular phones and electronic devices while
driving.
   (C)   Accordingly, employees shall not use cellular phones if such conduct
is prohibited by law, regulation, or other ordinance.
   (D)   Employees, while driving a classified commercial vehicle, shall not
send or read received text messages on personal or town-issued cellular phones.
   (E)   Employees should not use handheld cellular phones for business, or any
purposes while driving, except for emergency personnel responding to emergency
situations. Should an employee need to make or receive a business call while
driving, he/she should locate a lawfully designated area to park and make or
receive the call.
   (F)   Employees may use hands-free cellular phones to make or receive calls.
Such calls should be kept short and should the circumstances warrant (such as
heavy traffic or inclement weather), the employee should locate a lawfully
designated area to park to continue the call.
   (G)   Employees, while operating commercial vehicles, as defined by the U.S.
Department of Transportation, shall not engage in text messaging under federal
law.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.094 SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY.
   Social media can take many different forms, including internet forums, blogs
and micro-blogs, online profiles, wikis, podcasts, pictures and video, instant
messaging, music-sharing, and voice over IP to name just a few. Examples of
social media applications include, but are not limited to, LinkedIn, Twitter,
Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat YouTube, Wikipedia, etc.
   (A)   Guidelines.
      (1)   As a public employee some acts can adversely affect work or work
relationships. Ultimately employees are solely responsible for what they post
online, on or off duty. Certain types of content or conduct may reflect poorly
upon an employee's character and judgement and therefore influence his/her
standing as an employee. Before creating online content, consider some of the
risks and rewards that are involved. Employees should keep in mind that any of
their conduct that adversely affects their job performance, the performance of
fellow employees, or otherwise adversely affects the public, and people who
work on behalf of the Town of Monon, or the Town of Monon, may result in
disciplinary action up to and including termination.
      (2)   (2)   Discussion, debate and sharing one's opinion occur in many
forms and forums including online conversations. Social media is defined as
media designed to be disseminated through social interaction, created using
highly accessible and scalable publishing techniques.
      (3)   Given the growing popularity of online media, the Town of Monon has
developed a series of guidelines to assist its employees when engaging in such
forums and discussions. The guidelines are intended to assist employees both
when participating personally as well as when acting on behalf of the town.
   (B)   Know and follow town policies and work rules. Employees should
carefully read the policies in this personnel policies handbook. Employees
shall ensure that their postings are consistent with these policies,
inappropriate postings including, but not limited to discriminatory remarks,
harassment, and threats of violence or similar inappropriate or unlawful
conduct will not be tolerated and may subject employee to disciplinary action,
up to, and including termination.
   (C)   Be respectful.
      (1)   Always be fair and courteous to fellow employees, town vendors, and
the public on behalf of the Town of Monon. Also, employees should keep in mind
that they are more likely to resolve work-related complaints by speaking
directly with co-workers or the public rather than posting complaints to a
social media outlet.
      (2)   However, if an employee does post complaints or criticism, they
should avoid using statements, photographs, video, or audio that reasonably
could be viewed as malicious, obscene, and threatening or intimidating, that
disparage co-workers, town vendors, or the public, or that might constitute
harassment or bullying. A few examples of such conduct include offensive posts
meant to intentionally harm someone's reputation or posts that could contribute
to a hostile work environment on the basis of race, sex, disability, religion
or any other status protected by law or town policy.
   (D)   Be honest and accurate. Make sure you are honest and accurate when
posting information and news, and if you make a mistake, correct it quickly. Be
open about any previous posts you have altered. Remember that the internet
archives almost everything; therefore, even deleted postings can be searched.
Never post any information or rumors that you know to be false about the Town
of Monon, fellow co-workers, Town vendors, or the public.
   (E)   Restrictions.
      (1)   Employees should not post confidential or propriety information
about the town, co-workers, town vendors, or the public. They should never
violate federal law such as HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act). Employees who share confidential information are subject
to disciplinary action, up to, and including termination.
      (2)   Employees should not use the town's name to promote a product,
cause, or political party or candidate.
      (3)   Employees should not state or imply that they speak for the town or
for town officials. Be aware of their association with the town when using
social networks. Remember that they are a public employee and expected to
maintain a high standard of personal conduct.
      (4)   If they publish to a blog or some other form of social media, make
it clear that whatever they say is their view or opinion by stating: "these are
my personal views and opinions and not necessarily the views and opinions of
your employer."
      (5)   Photographs posted on social media sites can easily be appropriated
by others. Employees should use caution when posting pictures of town events,
town employees, or citizens visiting town offices. Be respectful of others'
privacy.
      (6)   Employees should not post obscenities, slurs, or personal attacks
that could slander or libel them or the county which could result in civil or
criminal penalties.
      (7)   Do not infringe on copyrights, logos, or trademarks.
   (F)   Respect time and property. The town's computers and time on the job
are reserved for work-related business. Employees may use personal cellular/
mobile phones during break periods, including meal breaks in locations that do
not pose a disruption to others. Employees may not use town time to engage on
social media for personal use.
   (G)   Think twice before posting. Privacy does not exist in the world of
social media. Employees should consider what could happen if a post becomes
widely known. Search engines can turn up posts years after they are created,
and comments can be forwarded or copied. Exercise sound judgment and common
sense, and if there is any doubt, DO NOT POST IT. There should be no
expectation of privacy.
   (H)   Know that the internet is permanent. Once information is published
online, it is essentially part of a permanent record, even if that information
is removed/deleted later, or an attempt is made to make it anonymous. If a
complete thought, along with its context, cannot be squeezed into a character
restricted space (such as Twitter), provide a link to an online space where the
message can be expressed completely and accurately.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.095 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   (1)   Drug and alcohol use are highly detrimental to the safety and
productivity of employees in the workplace. No employee may be under the
influence of alcohol, or any illegal drug while in the workplace, while on
duty, or while operating a vehicle or equipment owned or leased by the town .
      (2)   The town shall maintain a drug-free workplace in accordance with
the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, and the State of Indiana Drug-Free
Workplace Executive Order No. 90-5 of 1990. Failure to comply with this law
could jeopardize government funds received by the town. The unlawful
manufacture, possession, distribution, transfer, purchase, sale, use, or being
under the influence of alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs while on town
property, while attending business-related activities, while on duty, or while
operating a vehicle or machine leased or owned by the town is strictly
prohibited and may lead to disciplinary action, including suspension without
pay or discharge. When appropriate, the town may refer the employee to approved
counseling or rehabilitation programs.
      (3)   Any employee while on official town business, or when serving as a
representative of the town, who is convicted of a drug-related crime must
notify the town within five days of the conviction.
      (4)   Monon Town Council members, the Clerk-Treasurer and department
heads are required to notify the appropriate government funding agency within
ten days of the conviction. Appropriate personnel action including possible
discipline, up to, and including termination, and/or participation in a drug
abuse assistance or rehabilitation program, may result after notice of the
conviction is received.
      (5)   The town will determine on a case-by-case basis whether assistance
will be provided to employees whose health or performance is at risk of
deterioration. Employees may use physician prescribed medications, provided
that the use of such drugs do not adversely affect job performance or the
safety of the employee or other individuals in the workplace.
      (6)   The town recognizes that employees may wish to seek professional
assistance in overcoming drug or alcohol problems. Please contact the Clerk-
Treasurer for more information about the benefits potentially available under
the employee medical benefit plans and any possible referral sources.
      (7)   Employees may keep prescription drugs on town premises when
prescribed by a medical physician. Employees may keep over-the-counter
medications on town premises as needed. Employees holding safety-sensitive
positions shall notify their elected official/department head of such over-the-
counter medications and prescription drugs, which may impair judgment in the
performance of job duties and responsibilities.
   (B)   Testing. The Town of Monon may ask employees to submit to random
alcohol or drug tests.
Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the following
circumstances.
      (1)   Pre-employment testing. The Town of Monon will not employ
individuals known to use illegal drugs or misuse prescription drugs. All
prospective new employees may be subject to drug and alcohol testing at the
town's expense. Offers of employment may be contingent on passing the pre-
employment drug and alcohol screen. Applicants who refuse to complete the test,
test positive, or refuse to complete related documentation will not be hired by
the town. Applicants will be asked to list any legally prescribed drugs taken
at the time of the test and will be asked to provide physician authorization
for those drugs.
      (2)   (2)   Reasonable suspicion. At the time a department head/Clerk-
Treasurer requests an employee provide a sample for testing, the department
head/Clerk-Treasurer shall provide the employee with a written statement
setting forth workplace behavior witnessed by the employee's supervisors relied
upon by the requesting authority in coming to a conclusion that there is a
reasonable suspicion that the employee may be under the influence of a drug or
alcohol. If the employee refuses to submit such a sample upon request, then
accompanied by said written statement, the town will interpret such refusal as
a positive drug test result and thus a violation of the town's work rules, and
the employee's refusal of the test shall be subject to the town's progressive
discipline policy and may include termination.
      (3)   Post-accident.
         (a)   Post-accident testing occurs when an employee is involved in an
accident on town property or operating town equipment in the pursuit of town
business.
         (b)   The town reserves the right to order post-accident tests, as it
deems appropriate, based on the totality of the circumstances surrounding the
accident. Post-accident tests may include screens for both drugs and alcohol.
         (c)   Questions concerning this policy, or its administration should
be directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.096 SMOKING.
   (A)   This policy applies equally to all elected officials/department heads,
employees, and visitors.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this policy:
      SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying a lighted cigarette,
cigar, pipe, e-cigarette, or other apparatus used to smoke tobacco or any other
organic or non-organic material.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product made or derived from tobacco that is
intended for human consumption, this includes, among other products,
cigarettes, cigarette tobacco, and smokeless tobacco.
   (C)   In keeping with the town's intent to provide a safe and healthy work
environment, the use of any tobacco products and/or smoking of any substances
in town owned or leased buildings, vehicles, property, and any buildings,
vehicles, property is prohibited.
   (D)   Supervisors will discuss the issue of taking breaks with their staff,
both smokers and non-smokers.
   (E)   Together they will develop effective solutions that do not interfere
with the productivity of the staff.
   (F)   Violators of this policy will be subject to disciplinary action up to
and including termination.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.097 USE OF TOWN TELEPHONES, FAX MACHINES, AND TOWN MAIL.
   (A)   Personal telephone calls should be limited in frequency and duration.
Employees should refrain from using town telephones when making local personal
calls. Personal use of telephones for long-distance and toll calls is not
permitted, except for emergencies. Employees shall reimburse the town for all
long-distance/toll calls. The mail system is reserved for business purposes.
Employees should refrain from sending or receiving personal mail at the
workplace without expressed permission.
   (B)   A fax machine is reserved for business purposes. Employees should
refrain from sending or receiving personal faxes at the workplace without
expressed permission.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.098 USE OF TOWN PROVIDED COMPUTERS, DIGITAL EQUIPMENT, AND INTERNET
ACCESS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this policy:
      (1)   Work provided COMPUTERS AND DIGITAL EQUIPMENT mean all computers,
both desktop and laptop, cameras, scanners, printers, and all other digital
equipment the Town of Monon may in the future acquire.
      (2)   INTERNET ACCESS includes the internet, World Wide Web, Intranet,
printers, and any other network or communication system or end point on any
network established by the Town of Monon.
   (B)   The employee understands and acknowledges that he/she has absolutely
no expectation of privacy or confidentiality when using the town's
communication systems. The purpose of Town of Monon Government-provided
computers and digital equipment, and internet access for employees is to
facilitate communications in support of the mission of the town and to perform
the work of the town. Use of such work-provided equipment and access entails
responsibility. To remain eligible for such use and access, an employee's use
of the town computers and digital equipment, and internet access must be
consistent with the performance of the employee's duties within the town.
   (C)   Limited, incidental, personal use of Town of Monon provided computers
and digital equipment and internet access only as follows:
      (1)   The use does not interfere with the performance of the employee's
public duties.
      (2)   The use must be infrequent, of short duration and, unless not
reasonably practical, made on the employee's personal time.
      (3)   The use must not be for the purpose of conducting business related
to an outside commercial activity.
      (4)   The use must not be for the purpose of supporting or conducting
activities of any political party or candidate.
      (5)   The use must not be for any purpose determined to be illegal.
   (D)   While there is a general expectation that files and documents
generated or stored on Town of Monon work provided computers and email
transmitted to and from work provided computers will be accessed only by
authorized users, privacy of such files, documents, and e-mail is not
guaranteed, nor should employees expect privacy of such documents and
transmissions.
   (E)   The following uses of work provided computers and digital equipment
and internet access is not permitted:
      (1)   To access, upload, download, to distribute pornographic, obscene,
threatening, abusive, or sexually explicit material.
      (2)   To transmit obscene, abusive, sexually explicit, or threatening
language.
      (3)   To violate any local, state, or federal law.
      (4)   To vandalize, damage, or disable the property of another individual
or organization.
      (5)   To access another individual's materials, information, or files
without permission.
      (6)   To violate copyright or use in an impermissible way the
intellectual property of another individual or organization.
      (7)   To promote, advertise, or otherwise engage in a personal or private
venue.
   (F)   Violation of the policy and rules may result in loss of access to
work-provided computers and digital equipment or internet access in addition to
other disciplinary action determined to be appropriate by the employee's
department head, and the Monon Town Council. In particularly serious
situations, or when an employee continues to violate this policy, termination
may occur. Where guidance or interpretation is needed concerning the
appropriateness of a particular use, an employee should discuss the situations
with the employee's department head, who may seek further guidance and
direction as necessary.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.099 AUTHORIZED USE OF TOWN OWNED AND/OR LEASED VEHICLES.
   (A)   All town employees are allowed to utilize clearly marked town owned
and/or leased vehicles for the purpose of conducting business and providing
transportation to and from worksites.
   (B)   Town vehicles may not be used for personal business without consent
from the Monon Town Council.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.100 TAKE HOME VEHICLE POLICY.
   (A)   The Internal Revenue Code (IRC) requires the taxable value for the use
of town provided vehicles be reported as additional compensation to employees.
The town and employee must timely report personal use as a wage. Such reports
are processed by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The following employees provided a town-owned vehicle who are required
to commute and use the vehicle for official town business purposes only:
      (1)   Town Marshal.
      (2)   Municipal Superintendent.
   (C)   For town employees provided a town-owned vehicle, other than those
provided a qualified non-personal use vehicle, personal use (other than
commuting and de minimis personal use) of town-owned vehicles is prohibited.
   (D)   Other than commuting, personal use of a clearly marked police town-
owned qualified non-personal use vehicle is prohibited outside the jurisdiction
of White County, Indiana.
   (E)   Except for qualified non-personal use vehicles, $1.50 per one-way
commute (home-to-work or work-to-home) shall be includable in the gross income
of any town employee commuting to/from work in a town-owned vehicle.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.101 TRAVEL AND CONFERENCES.
   The following policies shall be used in providing or reimbursing the Clerk-
Treasurer, appointed officials and employees for travel accommodations when
travel has been authorized and budgeted.
   (A)   Registration fees. The cost of registration or similar fees for
conferences, seminars and other similar meetings or functions related to town
affairs will be provided for or reimbursed when supported by original receipts.
   (B)   Transportation. Travel by commercial airlines, rail service, bus, or
similar common carrier mode will be provided for at the prevailing "coach" or
"tourist" rate when authorized and supported by original receipts. Taxi fare
and/or the cost of other local (public) conveyance will be provided for or
reimbursed when supported by original receipts. Parking fees (not parking
violations) and tolls will be reimbursed when supported by original receipts.
When a personal vehicle is used, reimbursement for mileage will be at the
federal government rate per mile at the time. Mileage shall be determined from
the Monon Town Hall or employee's residence, whichever is the shortest
distance.
   (C)   Lodging. Lodging shall be provided for or reimbursed when supported by
original receipts in the following manner:
      (1)   Single occupancy will be provided at actual cost.
      (2)   Double occupancy will be provided at actual cost when both parties
are eligible for reimbursement.
      (3)   Double occupancy will be provided at the single occupancy rate when
only one party is eligible for reimbursement unless room is a one-rate charge.
      (4)   Reimbursement for lodging costs shall include room costs,
associated local taxes and necessary, business-related telephone charges. Any
other charges made to the room are the responsibility of the employee. Room
service will not be reimbursable.
      (5)   Overnight accommodation is not allowed for one day meetings,
conferences, and/or conventions within 60 miles of Monon, Indiana, unless
authorized by the Town Council.
   (D)   Meals.
      (1)   Meals will be reimbursed when supported by original receipts up to
$30 per meal, including gratuities. Such gratuity should be reasonable and
should not exceed 20%. Total meal reimbursements shall not exceed more than $60
per day.
      (2)   Meal expenses are not allowed for meals during normal duty hours
for routine employee's duties requiring travel.
      (3)   When separate checks are not available, an employee may claim
reimbursement for other employees up to the maximum amount provided for in the
preceding section multiplied by the number of employees, provided that each
employee is identified by name and that an original receipt is provided.
Payment for meals will be made to only to the employee who submits receipt/
claim.
      (4)   No reimbursement will be made for meals already provided for in a
registration fee.
      (5)   No reimbursement will be made for alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.102 TRAINING.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer and municipal employees may obtain training leave
without loss of pay for the purpose of participating in training that will
increase the knowledge of efficiency in their position with the municipality.
   (B)   If the training/schooling pertains to the position of the Clerk-
Treasurer or employee, the municipality (if personal vehicle is used) will pay
the cost of tuition, materials, and mileage
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.103 INDIANA INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS POLICY.
   (A)   I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) provides that through the compliance guidelines
authorized under I.C. 5-11-1-24 the State Board of Accounts (SBoA) shall define
the acceptable minimum level of internal control standards for internal control
systems of political subdivisions, including the following:
      (1)   Control environment.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
      (3)   Control activities.
      (4)   Information and communication.
      (5)   Monitoring.
   (B)   I.C. 5-11-1-27(g) requires that the Monon Town Council must adopt the
minimum internal control standards as defined by SBoA. Additionally, the
Council must ensure that employees receive training concerning the internal
control standards and procedures adopted by the town.
   (C)   The Monon Town Council has adopted the internal control standards as
defined by SBoA under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e). Personnel training of employees shall
be evidenced through a certification process. The Clerk-Treasurer will be
responsible for developing and overseeing the administration of the internal
control standards policy, training, and certifications.
   (D)   At the time of submission of the annual report, the Clerk-Treasurer
must certify that the minimum internal control standards have been adopted and
that personnel who are not otherwise on leave status have received training
regarding these standards and procedures.
   (E)   Apart from the required certification to be filed by the Clerk-
Treasurer, elected officials, appointees, and employees must sign the Internal
Control Training Certification form for Elected Officials, Appointees, and
Employees as evidence for their training. These certifications are to be
maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer onsite.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.104 MATERIALITY POLICY.
   (A)   I.C. 5-11-1-27(j) requires that erroneous or irregular material
variance, losses, shortages, or thefts of political subdivision funds or
property, shall be reported immediately. State Board of Accounts Examiner
Directive 2015-06 directs each political subdivision (Town of Monon) to
determine its own policy on materiality; and in compliance with such directives
the Monon Town Council has implemented the following:
      (1)   The Monon Town Council calls upon the Clerk-Treasurer and all town
officials, employees, and agents to enforce and comply with the policy on
materiality and process for reporting material items and to report noteworthy
items to the Town Council and to report the same to the State Board of
Accounts. The Monon Town Council of directs that the Town Council, town
employees and agents, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall monitor compliance with the
policy on materiality at the regularly scheduled Town Council meeting after the
discovery of any violation of said materiality policy and shall continue to
monitor the compliance until such violation is rectified.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall, when an irregular variance, loss,
shortage, or theft is determined material according to the town's policy on
materiality, report the incident to the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
PERSONAL CONDUCT
§ 33.115 ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY.
   (A)   Personal conduct. The policies contained in this chapter and
throughout the Town of Monon Personnel Policies Handbook apply to all Town of
Monon employees, except when in direct conflict with special employment
conditions set forth by various statutes governing employment relationships.
   (B)   To maintain a safe and productive work environment, the town expects
employees to be reliable and to be punctual in reporting for scheduled work.
Absenteeism and tardiness place a burden on other employees and on the Town of
Monon. Poor attendance and excessive tardiness are disruptive. Either may lead
to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
   (C)   In the rare instances when employees cannot avoid being late to work
or are unable to work as scheduled, they should notify their department head at
least one hour in advance of the anticipated tardiness, or absence, or as soon
as possible in the event of an emergency. Contacting a fellow employee is not
counted as notification; the contact must be made with the department head.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.116 EXCESSIVE TARDINESS/ABSENTEEISM.
   (A)   Excessive tardiness/absenteeism is defined as time late for reporting
to your assigned workstation after your scheduled start time either at the
beginning of the shift, after meal periods, or after some other excused time
off from work, up to one hour per incident.
   (B)   At the discretion of the department head, compensatory time may be
used for payroll purposes; however, the incident will still be documented as a
tardy.
   (C)   Three tardies in any consecutive 90 day period will result in a verbal
warning placed in personnel file.
   (D)   Five tardies will result in a written warning placed in personnel
file.
   (E)   Seven tardies will result in a three day suspension without pay and
written warning placed in personnel file.
   (F)   Nine tardies will result in any appropriate discipline, up to and
including termination of employment.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.117 UNEXCUSED TARDINESS/ABSENTEEISM.
   (A)   Unexcused absence is defined as an absence from work after all
vacation, compensatory time, and sick time has been utilized, or prior approval
of the department head was not received.
   (B)   One unexcused absence will result in a written warning placed in
personnel file.
   (C)   Two unexcused absences within a consecutive 90 day period will result
in any appropriate discipline, up to and including termination of employment
unless the department head determines the unexcused absence was "unavoidable",
then written warning placed in personnel file.
   (D)   Three unexcused absences will result in any appropriate discipline, up
to and including termination of employment.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.118 EXCUSED TARDINESS/ABSENTEEISM.
   (A)   An absence or tardy is considered excused if:
      (1)   Supervisor has been notified, in person, in advance, or in a timely
manner and has granted permission for tardiness or absence.
      (2)   Emergencies that are backed by:
         (a)   Documentation; and/or
         (b)   Bad weather or natural hazard;
   (B)   Vacation time, bereavement leave, jury duty, or military leave is not
counted against an employee's attendance record; however, sick time in which
the supervisor has been duly notified can be an excused absence.
   (C)   All requests for foreseeable time off, such as, but not limited to,
vacation, bereavement, illness, or compensatory time must be requested to the
department head via the internal departmental "Time Off Request" form, or any
approved departmental request form, at least 24 hours prior to absence when
possible.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.119 DRESS CODE.
   (A)   All town employees must wear clothing or name tags identifying them as
town employees. All shirts must have over the shoulder sleeves. Shorts (must
have hem), blue jeans, or work pants must be appropriate and clean. The
department head is responsible for evaluating the dress and appearance of
employees under his/her supervision.
   (B)   If an employee is not dressed appropriately, the department head will
take the following steps:
      (1)   First offense. Verbal warning will be given, and the dress code
reviewed. Nonexempt employees who are not dressed in appropriate clothing
during working hours will be sent home to change into the appropriate clothing
without pay.
      (2)   Second offense. Employee will be sent home to change immediately as
well as given a written warning. Nonexempt employees who are not dressed in
appropriate clothing during working hours will be sent home to change into the
appropriate clothing without pay.
   (C)   Further violations will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.120 HARASSMENT/HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Sexual and other unlawful harassment is a violation of Title VII
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VII), as amended, as well as many state
laws. Harassment based on a characteristic protected by law, such as race,
color, ancestry, national origin, gender, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, marital status, religion, age, disability, veteran status, or other
characteristic protected by state or federal law, is prohibited.
      (2)   This policy applies to all individuals that the Town of Monon
interacts with. The town is committed to providing a work environment that is
free of any type of discrimination or unlawful harassment. The town prohibits
any form of harassment and will take corrective action against offenders,
including discipline or discharge.
   (B)   Definition of unlawful harassment.
      (1)   UNLAWFUL HARASSMENT is conduct that has the purpose or effect of
creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; has the
purpose or effect of substantially and unreasonably interfering with an
individual's work performance; or otherwise adversely affects an individual's
employment opportunities because of the individual's membership in a protected
class.
      (2)   Unlawful harassment includes, but is not limited to, epithets;
slurs; jokes; pranks; innuendo; comments; written or graphic material;
stereotyping; or other threatening, hostile, or intimidating acts based on
race, color, ancestry, national origin, gender, sex, sexual orientation,
marital status, religion, age, disability, veteran status, or other
characteristic protected by state or federal law.
   (C)   Definition of sexual harassment/hostile work environment. Any request
for sexual favors and/or any other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
nature between employees in the workplace, or job-related contacts with
citizens or persons outside town employment, constitute sexual harassment and
are prohibited, such as:
      (1)   Unwelcome sexual advances.
      (2)   Physical or verbal conduct of a sexual nature, or joking, that is
sex-oriented and considered unacceptable by another individual. Examples of
conduct of a sexual nature include: flirtations, advances or propositions,
verbal abuse of a sexual nature, leering, touching, pinching, assault, or
coerced sexual acts, or suggestive, insulting; obscene comments or gestures;
written, photo, cartoon, or electronic displays in the workplace of sexually
suggestive objects or pictures. This includes commenting about an individual's
body or appearance where such comments go beyond mere courtesy, telling "dirty
jokes" that are clearly unwanted and considered offensive by others, or any
other tasteless sexually-oriented comments or actions that offend others.
      (3)   Any verbal or non-verbal communication expressing or implying that
participation in sexual contact is a condition of employment, promotion or
preferential treatment.
      (4)   Printed or electronic display or transmission of sexually-explicit
images, messages and cartoons is not allowed. Other violations include, but are
not limited to, ethnic slurs, racial comments, jokes, or anything that may be
construed as harassment or showing disrespect for others.
      (5)   Conduct with sexual implication that has the purpose or the effect
of interfering with work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive work environment is considered sexual harassment.
      (6)   All behavior described above is unacceptable in the workplace
itself and in other work-related settings such as business trips and business-
related social events.
   (D)   Reporting a complaint.
      (1)   Complaints should be directed to the department head and/or a
"confidential" written letter to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   While the town encourages individuals who believe they are being
harassed to firmly and promptly notify the offender that his/her behavior is
unwelcome, the town also recognizes that power and status disparities between
an alleged harasser and a target may make such a confrontation impossible. If
such informal, direct communication between individuals is either ineffective
or impossible, the following steps should be followed in reporting a harassment
complaint.
      (3)   To take corrective action, the town must be aware of harassment or
related retaliation. Therefore, any employee who experiences harassment should
contact his/her department head immediately. If unresolved, or in the event the
harassment is alleged against the department head, the employee is advised to
obtain and submit a harassment complaint form to the Clerk-Treasurer. The best
time to register a complaint is immediately after the act occurs. An employee's
job will not, in any way, be threatened by truthfully reporting any acts of
unlawful harassment as described above.
      (4)   Any department head who has witnessed or becomes aware of an
alleged occurrence of unlawful harassment or retaliation or receives a
complaint of harassment involving a person within that department head's
purview is required to take prompt corrective action and to report the incident
to the Clerk-Treasurer. Failure of a department head to immediately take
corrective action or to report the incident to the Clerk-Treasurer shall
constitute misconduct subject to disciplinary action.
      (5)   In order to prove a hostile work environment, the employee must
demonstrate that:
         (a)   They were subjected to unlawful harassment that was severe or
pervasive enough that a reasonable person would consider the workplace
intimidating, hostile, or abusive;
         (b)   The harassment was based on a protected class;
         (c)   The harassment affected a term, condition, or privilege of
employment;
         (d)   The employer knew or should have known of the harassment and
failed to take prompt remedial action; or
         (e)   The employee acted reasonable under the circumstance.
   (E)   Description of misconduct. An accurate record of objectionable
behavior or misconduct is needed to resolve a formal complaint of harassment.
      (1)   Verbal reports of unlawful harassment must be recorded in written
form either by the complainant or the individual(s) designated to receive
complaints and be signed by the complainant. Individuals who believe they have
been or currently are being harassed should maintain a record of objectionable
conduct to effectively prepare and corroborate their allegations.
      (2)   While the town encourages individuals to keep written notes to
accurately record offensive conduct or behavior, it must be recognized that, if
a lawsuit develops from the reported incident, the confidentiality of the
complainant's written notes may not be recognized under Indiana law and the
notes may have to be disclosed.
      (3)   Department heads and the Clerk-Treasurer have copies of the town
harassment complaint form. Employees are directed to obtain, complete, and
submit this form to initiate a formal complaint.
   (F)   Time frame for reporting complaints. 
      (1)   The town encourages prompt reporting of complaints so that rapid
response and appropriate action may be taken. However, due to the sensitivity
of these problems and because of the emotional toll such misconduct may have on
an individual, no limited time frame will be instituted for reporting sexual
harassment complaints.
      (2)   Late reporting of complaints will not in and of itself preclude the
town from taking remedial action.
   (G)   Protection against retaliation.
      (1)   The town will not in any way retaliate against individuals who
report unlawful harassment or against anyone who participates in a resulting
investigation, nor permit any department head or employee to do so. Retaliation
is a serious violation of this policy and should be reported immediately.
      (2)   Any person found to have retaliated against another individual for
the good faith reporting of any unlawful harassment will be subject to the same
disciplinary action provided for harassment offenders.
   (H)   Investigating the complaint.
      (1)   Any allegation of unlawful harassment that is reported will be
promptly investigated in as discreet a manner as possible to protect the
privacy of persons involved. The town will use its best efforts to maintain
confidentiality throughout the investigatory process to the extent practical
and appropriate under the circumstances; however, confidentiality is not
guaranteed. The alleged harasser will be notified of the nature of the
complaint made against him/her.
      (2)   Upon completing the investigation of a harassment complaint, the
town will communicate its decision over the outcome of the investigation to the
complainant and the alleged harasser. If the Clerk-Treasurer and the Town
Attorney determine that harassment occurred, they will consult the Monon Town
Council to determine appropriate disciplinary action. The complainant will be
informed if disciplinary action is taken.
      (3)   In determining whether alleged conduct constitutes unlawful
harassment, the town will look at the investigative file as a whole and the
totality of the circumstances, such as the nature of the conduct and the
context in which the alleged incidents occurred.
      (4)   The determination of whether disciplinary action is to be taken
will be made from the facts, on a case-by-case basis.
   (I)   Identification of investigators. Complaints will be investigated by
the Clerk-Treasurer and/or investigators selected by the Monon Town Council. In
addition, other individuals may be included in reviewing the investigation and
outcome at the discretion of the Monon Town Council.
   (J)   False accusations. The Town of Monon also recognizes that careful
consideration must be given to questions regarding whether a particular action
or incident is purely personal or social without any discriminatory employment
effect. False accusations of unlawful harassment can have devastating effects
on the lives and reputations of innocent women and men. Therefore, the town may
discipline, up to, and including termination of employment, those employees who
are proved to have intentionally, maliciously, and wrongly accused others of
unlawful harassment.
   (K)   Sanctions.
      (1)   Individuals found to have engaged in misconduct constituting
unlawful harassment, creating a hostile work environment, or related
retaliation will be severely disciplined, up to and including termination of
employment.
      (2)   Additional action may include: referral to counseling, withholding
of a promotion, reassignment, demotion, temporary suspension without pay, or
termination.
      (3)   Although the town's ability to discipline a non-town employee
harasser is limited, any town employee who has been subjected to unlawful
harassment by a non-town employee at the workplace or work-related setting
should file a complaint so that action may be taken.
   (L)   Maintaining a written record of the complaint. The town will maintain
a complete written record of each complaint and how it was investigated and
resolved. Written records shall be maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer with
copies to the Town Attorney. If disciplinary action was taken, a record shall
be maintained in the offender's personnel file.
   (M)   Prevention.
      (1)   Prevention is the best policy for the elimination of harassment.
Employees shall remain cognizant of harassment to avoid contributing to
conditions that would encourage such activity.
      (2)   Unlawful harassment violations will result in severe disciplinary
action.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.121 VIOLENCE-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The safety and security of the Town of Monon employees, customers,
suppliers, and visitors is very important. It is the intent of the town to
provide a workplace for all employees which is free of violence. Threats,
threatening behavior, acts of violence, or any related conduct which disrupts
another's work performance or the organization's ability to execute its mission
will not be tolerated.
   (B)   Workplace violence includes, but is not limited to, intimidation,
threat, physical attack, or property damage. These terms are defined as
follows:
      INTIMIDATION includes, but is not limited to, stalking, or engaging in
actions intended to frighten, coerce, or induce duress.
      THREAT is the expression of intent to cause physical or mental harm. An
expression constitutes a threat without regard to whether the person
communicating the threat has presented the ability to carry it out and without
regard to whether expression is contingent, conditional, or future.
      PHYSICAL ATTACK is unwanted or hostile physical contact such as hitting,
fighting, pushing, shoving, throwing objects, firing a weapon, causing an
explosion of hazardous materials, or discharge of hazardous substances.
      PROPERTY DAMAGE is intentional damage to property which includes property
owned or leased by the town, employees, visitors, or vendors.
   (C)   Any person who makes threats, exhibits threatening behavior, or
engages in violent acts on town-owned or leased property may be removed from
the premises.
   (D)   Threats, threatening behavior, or acts of violence executed off town-
owned or leased property but directed at town employees or members of the
public while conducting official town business, is a violation of this policy.
   (E)   Off-site threats include, but are not limited to, threats made via the
telephone, fax, electronic or conventional mail, or any other communication
medium.
   (F)   Violations of this policy will lead to disciplinary action that may
include termination of employment and may also result in arrest and
prosecution. In addition, if the source of such inappropriate behavior is a
member of the public, the response may also include barring the person(s) from
town-owned or leased premises, termination of business relationships with the
individual(s), arrest, and prosecution of the person(s) involved.
   (G)   Employees are responsible for notifying their department heads, or the
Clerk-Treasurer of any threats which they have witnessed, received, or have
been told that another person has witnessed or received.
   (H)   Employees should also report any behavior they have witnessed which
they regard as threatening or violent when the behavior is job related or might
be carried out on town- owned or leased property or in connection with town
employment.
   (I)   Any employee who receives a protective or restraining order which
lists town- owned or leased premises as a protected area is required to provide
the department head with a copy of such order.
   (J)   If an emergency exists, contact the police department at 911 and
notify your department head.
   (K)   If it is not an emergency, employees should inform the department
head. If the department head is unavailable or if the nature of the complaint
is such that the employee does not believe he/she can discuss it with the
department head, the employee may bring concerns to the Clerk-Treasurer or a
Town Council member.
   (L)   Employees who act in good faith by reporting real or implied violent
behavior violations of this policy need not fear retaliation.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.122 EMPLOYEE CONDUCT.
   (A)   When dealing with the public personally or during phone conversations,
town employees will do so in a courteous and professional manner. Excessive
complaints from the public against any employee will be investigated and may
result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
   (B)   The use or possession of intoxicants on the job, or on town property
will result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination, and /or
criminal prosecution.
   (C)   Town employees charged with a felony or found engaged in similar
conduct either during working hours or while off duty, are subject to
suspension from their position without pay until a plea agreement is entered,
the charges are dismissed, or a court of law establishes innocence or guilt.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 33.123 SUMMARY.
   The Town of Monon believes that employees of the town will understand that
work rules are necessary to administer the daily affairs of a growing town. In
that way, one can expect to be treated by the town and by fellow employees with
consideration and fairness. It is hoped that employees will, in turn, treat
their fellow employees and the town in the same manner.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 12-21-2022)
CHAPTER 34: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Identity theft prevention program
   
34.02   Town Hall usage
§ 34.01 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   The town’s identity theft prevention program is hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 34.02 TOWN HALL USAGE.
   (A)   The town’s municipal water works shall pay the town a sum, as set by
Town Council from time to time, per month for the use of the Town Hall.
   (B)   The town’s municipal sewage works shall pay the town a sum, as set by
Town Council from time to time, per month for the use of the Town Hall.
(1998 Code, § 17-7)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Compliance with state and/or federal requirements
   
50.03   Damage to municipal sewage works
Use Regulations
   
50.15   Sewer user classes
   
50.16   Strength and content of sewage discharge
   
50.17   Quantity of sewage discharge
   
50.18   Discharge of water and wastes into public sewer system
   
50.19   Connection to and use of public and private sewers and drains
   
50.20   Installation and connection of building sewers
   
50.21   Pretreatment of industrial wastes
   
50.22   Discharge of unpolluted water
   
50.23   Observation, sampling and measurement of waste
   
50.24   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
50.25   Unusual flows or wastes
   
50.26   Private sewage disposal systems
Rates and Charges; Billing
   
50.40   Billing procedures
   
50.41   Review of rates and charges
   
50.42   Reconnect fees for water and sewage service, water meter deposit; leak
and freezing allowance
   
50.43   Unclaimed utility deposits
   
50.44   Water use and rates
   
50.45   Sewage use and rates
Administration
   
50.60   By-laws and regulations
   
50.61   Appeal process
   
50.62   Inspections, observations, measurement, sampling and testing
   
50.63   Powers for inspection
   
50.64   Notices
   
50.65   Program for protecting the municipal water system
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BOARD. The Town Council of the Town of Monon, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting in its behalf.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal (this may also be referred to as a HOUSE CONNECTION).
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CLOSELY BUILT-UP AREAS. Any areas situated outside the corporate limits of
any city or town upon which area are located either residential or business
buildings; provided, however, that, it shall not include any tract of land,
situated outside the corporate limits of any city or town, consisting of ten
acres or more and upon which tracts of land is located only one building, which
building is used for residential purposes; provided, further, that, it shall
not include any tract of land situated outside the corporate limits of any city
or town, which tract of land is used for farming or agricultural purposes.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat the pollutants and, in
fact, does remove the pollutants to a precise definition, but generally
contemplates removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals
in the order of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the
additional pollutants which may be considered COMPATIBLE include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds; and
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds, and fats, oils and greases of
animal or vegetable origin (except as prohibited where these materials would
interfere with the operation of the treatment works).
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of “normal
domestic sewage”.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pre-treatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee waste or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to: roof leader, cellar, yard
and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges, drains
from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface run-off, street
wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from
infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the public
sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under 33 U.S.C. § 1317a; or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharge(s), shall mean wastewater
or sewage having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 200 mg/l; and
         (b)   S.S. not more than 240 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
Unites States pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, necessary
to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on a
continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. These costs include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation,
association, joint venture, club, social or fraternal organization, estate,
trust, receiver, lessee, agent, servant, officer, employee or any other entity.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PRE-TREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage disposal system not constructed,
installed, maintained, operated and owned by a municipality or a taxing
district established for that purpose.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sewer which is owned and controlled by the public
authority and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
sewage works equipment to maintain the capacity and performance for which the
works were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, including
polluted cooling water. The three most common types of SEWAGE are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes, including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer;
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. The combination of liquid- and water-carried
wastes discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment. This shall include the
wastes from pre-treatment facilities and polluted cooling water; and
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
receiving, treating and disposing of sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and process to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (S.S.). Solids that either float on the surface of or are
in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1317a, as amended.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the work pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1284,
as amended.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental).
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
(1998 Code, § 17-1)
§ 50.02 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND/OR FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now, in the future or projected to
be in effect.
(1998 Code, § 17-4-9)
§ 50.03 DAMAGE TO MUNICIPAL SEWAGE WORKS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(1998 Code, § 17-4-10) Penalty, see §
50.99
USE REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 SEWER USER CLASSES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided.
   (B)   These charges are established for each user class, as defined, in
order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user and user class,
revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works in terms of
volume and load.
   (C)   User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User charges shall
be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (D)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, published in the Federal
Register, 9-27-1978 (43 C.F.R. part 44022, as amended). Replacement costs,
which are recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the
expected useful life of the sewage works equipment.
   (E)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purpose of
this chapter shall be as follows:
   Class I - Residential
         Commercial
         Governmental
         Institutional
         Industrial
(1998 Code, § 17-3-1)
§ 50.16 STRENGTH AND CONTENT OF SEWAGE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In order that the rate and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger than
normal domestic sewage and shall require that user to determine the strength
and content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly
into the sanitary sewage system, in a manner and by a method as the town may
deem practicable in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the
case, in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central
sampling point available to the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 200 mg/l of fluid or suspended solids in excess of 240 mg/l of
fluid. Additional charges for treating stronger than normal domestic waste
shall be made on the following basis.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.28 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 240 mg/l of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.34 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
200 mg/l of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as
written by the Water Works Association, the American Water Works Association
and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in conformance with Guidelines
Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, 40 C.F.R. part 136,
published in the Federal Register on 10-16-1973.
(1998 Code, § 17-3-3) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 QUANTITY OF SEWAGE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in a manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and the
sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; further, as is
hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that the
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewerage system.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplies by the water utility serving the town, and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter
otherwise measured or determined by the town.
   (C)   In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in this chapter, the
owner or other interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and
maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each case,
for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for each
user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to each of
the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate or buildings served
through the single water meter.
   (E)   In the event two or more dwelling units, such as mobile homes,
apartments or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter; then, in that case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out elsewhere herein; except that, the minimum bill shall be less than the
number of the dwelling units times $9.20 per month. In the case of mobile home
courts, the number of dwelling units shall be computed and interpreted as the
total number of mobile home spaces available for rent, plus any other dwelling
units served through the meter. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted as a room
or rooms or any other space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (F)   In order that the single-family domestic and residential users of
sewage service shall not be penalized for sprinkling lawns during the summer
months of July or August, the charge for any consumer filing a statement with
his or her bill prior to the time the same shall be due and payable, that
sprinkling has been done during the month billed shall be reduced to an amount
equal to one of the four previous monthly bills, whichever is greater. Domestic
and/or residential sewage service, as applicable to the sprinkling rate, shall
apply to each lot, parcel of real estate or building which is occupied and used
as a single-family residence. The sprinkling rate shall not apply to any
premises which are partially or wholly used for commercial or industrial
purposes. In the event a portion of the premises shall be used for commercial
or industrial purposes, the owner shall have the privilege of separating the
water service so that the residential portion of the premises is served through
a separate meter and, in that case, the water usage is registered by the water
meter serving the portion of the premises used for residential purposes would
qualify under the sprinkling rate.
   (G)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 25,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs and volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewage discharge.
(1998 Code, § 17-3-4) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 DISCHARGE OF WATER AND WASTES INTO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structure, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works or that interferes with any treatment
process; and/or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged the following described substances, materials or wastes if it
appears likely in the opinion of the Superintendent that the wastes can harm
either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property or constitute a nuisance.
   (C)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged or possess the characteristics enumerated in this chapter and which,
in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent
may:
      (1)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
      (2)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of the wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage, as defined;
      (4)   Require control or flow equalization of the wastes so as to avoid
any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works;
or
      (5)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for the treating of the wastes.
   (D)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (E)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (F)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times. Agents of the town, the state water pollution control agencies
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all
properties, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing:
      (1)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (2)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (4)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works;
and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slug”, as defined herein.
      (5)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to a degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (G)   All measurements, test and analysis of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this accordance shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole, except for application for NPDES permits and
report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the USEPA published in the Federal Register on 10-16-
1973, (38 C.F.R. part 20758) and any subsequent revisions subject to approval
by the town. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the
control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the
public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling
shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property. (The particular analysis involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfall of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
suspended solids analysis are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfall
where as pHs are determined form periodic grab samples.)
   (H)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at rates as are compatible with the rate articles.
(1998 Code, § 14-4-3) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 CONNECTION TO AND USE OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS AND DRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged to any sanitary sewer or combined sewer, either directly or
indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water. The town shall require the removal of unpolluted wastewater collection
or treatment facility if the removal is cost-effective and in the best
interests of all users of those facilities.
   (C)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use the sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made unless there is
capacity available to all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the
sewage treatment plant, including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
jurisdiction of the town, any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with provisions of this
chapter and the NPDES permit.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged to any natural outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters,
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with provisions
of this chapter and the NPDES permit.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except as hereinafter provided,
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (G)   The owner of all houses, buildings or other purposes, situated within
the town and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is
now located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required
at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with
the provisions of the chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to
do so; provided that, the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(1998 Code, § 17-4-1) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to uncover, make any connections
with or openings into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits, one class
for residential and commercial service and one class for service to
establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his or
her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the town. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee as set by Town Council from time to
time for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and an amount as set
by Town Council from time to time for an industrial building sewer permit shall
be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a
building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointly testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the town.
      (2)   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface run-off or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9.
      (2)   All connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
   (K)   (1)   All excavations for building sewer installation must be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard.
      (2)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(1998 Code, § 17-4-2) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Pre-treatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries
prior to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the
rules and regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (USEPA) and published in the Federal Register on 8-25-1978 (43 C.F.R.
part 23) and Federal Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants, published in the Federal Register on 10-16-1973, (40 C.F.R. part
136), in addition to any more stringent requirements established by the town,
and any subsequent state or federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
   (B)   Plan, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pre-treatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of the facilities shall be commenced until approval, in
writing, is granted.
   (C)   Where the facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to
determine that the facilities are being operated in conformance with the
applicable federal, state and local laws and permits.
   (D)   The owner shall maintain operating records of the influent and
effluent to show the performance of the treatment facilities and for comparison
against town monitoring records.
(1998 Code, § 17-4-4)
§ 50.22 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, were it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town.
   (B)   Where a storm sewer is not available, discharge may be to a natural
outlet approved by the town and by the state.
   (C)   Where a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural sewer is not available,
the unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written
approval by the town.
   (D)   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pre-treated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with division (C)
above.
(1998 Code, § 17-4-5)
§ 50.23 OBSERVATION, SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT OF WASTE.
   (A)   (1)   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than
residential users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows
characteristics.
      (2)   The measurements, tests and analysis shall be made at the user’s
expense. If made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user
at the option of the town.
   (B)   The strength of wastewater shall be determined, for periodic
establishment of charges provided for in §
50.45, from samples taken at the aforementioned structure at any period of time
and of a duration and in a manner as the town may elect, or, at any place
mutually agreed upon between the user and the town.
   (C)   Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to the
user at the option of the town. The results of routine sampling and analysis by
the user may also be used for determination of charges after verification by
the town.
(1998 Code, § 17-4-6)
§ 50.24 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients; except that, the interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the town and shall be located so as to be readily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   (C)   All interceptors or traps shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be
of substantial construction, be gas-tight, water-tight and equipped with easily
removable covers.
   (D)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall
be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(1998 Code, § 17-4-7)
§ 50.25 UNUSUAL FLOWS OR WASTES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(1998 Code, § 17-4-8)
§ 50.26 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   (1)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, all
persons owning or leasing property in closely built-up areas shall comply with
the following provisions of this chapter for private sewage disposal systems.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to
be deposited in an insanitary manner upon public or private property within the
county, in any human excrement or sewage.
      (3)   At any business building situated within the county, where there is
installed a sewage disposal system which is not connected to a public sewer
system and no public sewer system is available, there shall be established,
installed or constructed, and maintained a private sewage disposal system which
shall comply with the standards of the State Board of Health as contained in
Bulletin S.E. 13 of the State Board of Health or in another manner as approved
by the State Board of Health. Copies of the Bulletin S.E. 13 are herewith
incorporated by reference as part of this chapter and two copies are filed in
the office of the County Auditor and County Health Officer for public
inspection.
      (4)   Any privy situated within the county shall be of the sanitary type
and shall be constructed and maintained in a clean condition and so that
insects and rodents cannot enter the vault. Any privy shall be located properly
to protect water supplies from contamination.
      (5)   All private residential sewage disposal systems and privies shall
be installed, constructed and maintained in an approved manner as described in
Bulletins S.E. 8 and 11 of the State Board of Health, copies of which are
herewith incorporated by reference as a part of this chapter and two copies
filed in the office of the County Auditor and County Health Office for public
inspection.
      (6)   (a)   The installation of any other private residential sewage
disposal systems not described by the State Board of Health may be approved by
the County Health Officer after the Board of County Commissioners has filed the
requirements, plans and specifications of the device or system in the office of
the Auditor and County Health Officer of the county.
         (b)   The requirements, plan and specifications must bear the written
approval of the State Board of Health.
      (7)   (a)   Should any defect exist or occur in any private sewage
disposal system or privy which would cause the sewage disposal system or privy
to fail to meet the requirements or cause an insanitary condition, the defect
shall be corrected immediately by the owner or agent of the owner, occupant or
agent of the occupant.
         (b)   Failure to do so shall be a violation of this chapter and the
violator shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in this chapter.
      (8)   Wherever a public combined or sanitary sewer becomes available and
is within 200 feet of the property line of the residential or business property
served by a private sewage disposal system or privy, situated within the
county, a direct connection shall be made to the sewer and any septic tanks,
seepage pits, outhouses, privy pits and/or similar sewage disposal and
treatment facilities shall be abandoned and filled in a safe and sanitary
manner.
      (9)   Whenever a new business building or subdivision is developed in an
area where a public combined or sanitary sewer is available, a connection shall
be made to said sewer if the connection can be made a reasonable cost.
      (10)   After receiving an order in writing from the County Board of
Health or the duly appointed Health Officer, the owner, agent of the owner, the
occupant or agent of the occupant of the property shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter as set forth in the order and within the time limit
included therein. The order shall be served on the owner or the owner and the
occupant or on the agent of the owner, but may be served on any person who, by
contact with the owner, has assumed the duty of complying with the provisions
of an order.
(1998 Code, § 17-5-1)
   (B)   (1)   Before commencement of construction of any building or private
residence where a private sewage disposal system or privy is to be installed or
where any alteration, repair or addition of an existing private sewage disposal
system is planned, the owner or agent of the owner shall first obtain a written
permit signed by the County Health Officer. The application for the permit
shall be made on a form provided by the county which application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, and other information as deemed
necessary by the County Health Officer. A permit and inspection fee of $1 shall
be paid to the County Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
      (2)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system or privy shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
County Health Officer. He or she, or his or her agent, shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the County Health Officer when the work is ready
for final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within two working days of the receipt of notice by
the County Health Officer.
      (3)   The application for a permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place
at or near the building where the sewage disposal system is under construction.
The notice should be plainly visible from the public thoroughfare serving this
building.
(1998 Code, § 17-5-2)
Penalty, see §
50.99
RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING
§ 50.40 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and this chapter.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all uses shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
the billing shall, in no way, relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by the tenant or tenants; provided that, the examination shall
be made at the office at which the records are kept and during the hours that
the office is open for business.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which the rates or
charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the
bill.
(1998 Code, § 17-3-5)
§ 50.41 REVIEW OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation,
following the date on which this chapter goes into effect.
   (B)   The study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the
costs associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from
industrial users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to
the various users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works
and the adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation
and maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements and capital
improvements to the waste treatment systems.
   (C)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness, equity and proportionality
of the rates and charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. The studies
shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town, or by a firm of
certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers, which firms
shall have experience in the studies, or by the combination of officers,
employees, certified public accountants or engineers as the town shall
determine to be best under the circumstances.
(1998 Code, § 17-3-6)
§ 50.42 RECONNECT FEES FOR WATER AND SEWAGE SERVICE, WATER METER DEPOSIT; LEAK
AND FREEZING ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby set a new rate of $25 for connection to water
works and sewage works after a customer has been disconnected. This fee shall
be collected by the Town Clerk-Treasurer upon reconnection of service and
remitted one-half to the water works and one-half to the sewage works.
      (2)   The meter deposit for water works service is increased to the sum
of $100 per meter for property owners and rental properties per meter
residential five-eights inch or larger, $150 per commercial usage, one inch or
larger.
      (3)   Each customer of the water works shall be entitled to one leak
allowance per year to be computed by deducting 2,500 gallons from the amount of
water used for the month in which the allowance is to be used, dividing the
remainder by two and adding back the 2,500 gallons and then computing the
amount due in the usual manner.
      (4)   For the leaving water running during the winter months to avoid
freezing lines, a customer shall be charged for the first 1,000 gallons used
over the gallons used as averaged for the three months prior to the month
running begins, in addition to the averaged amount, then each customer shall
receive 10,000 gallons running to avoid freezing allowance, and thereafter be
charged at the regular rates.
   (B)   (1)   Tenants of premises to which service is to be provided are
required to make a water meter deposit upon request of service. Finalizing an
account can be handled in two ways:
         (a)   When account is closed, the deposit will be applied toward any
utility and/or trash bill owed and a refund check will be mailed to the
customer for the remaining deposit. The Clerk-Treasurer’s office must have on a
file a signed release form allowing the application of deposit to any remaining
charges; or
         (b)   When the account is closed, the customer pays the complete
charge (water, sewage and trash). Upon full payment of charges owing, the
depositor will be issued by mail the full deposit.
      (2)   A deposit or remaining portion of deposit that has remained
unclaimed after one year after the termination of the services for which the
deposit has been made becomes property of the municipality and will be
receipted in the Water Operating Fund.
      (3)   All renters or leasers of property requesting water services must
pay a water meter deposit. A water meter deposit may be waived only upon
request of the owner of the property and upon receipt of the property owner’s
written request. The Clerk-Treasurer’s office may require a customer to provide
proof of ownership of property.
      (4)   If a tenant, occupant or other non-owner is billed, the owner shall
be liable for the user charge if payment is not made by the tenant, occupant or
other non owner when the charge is due as required per this division (B).
      (5)   Any check issued in payment to the municipal water utility for any
reason and returned to the municipal water utility for reason of insufficient
funds shall be charged to the customer at a rate of $25 per incident.
   (C)   Sprinkler credit.
      (1)   In order that residential users of sewage services shall not be
penalized for the sprinkling of lawns, gardens and the filling of pools during
the months of June, July and August, the billing for sewage service for
residences users for said months of June, July and August shall be based on the
average water usage for the previous months of March, April and May.
      (2)   This credit is only available upon a residential user's request by
calling the Town of Monon Utilities Office.
      (3)   Residential users claiming more than one month of credit must call
in each month of June, July and August.
      (4)   Residential users claiming a credit in June or July or August will
be charged based upon the lesser amount of the actual water used in the month
of claimed credit or the average water usage for the months of March, April and
May.
      (5)   Residential sewage service, as applicable to the sprinkling rate,
shall apply to each lot, parcel of real estate, or building which is occupied
and used as a residence. Said sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises
which are partially or wholly used for non-residential purposes. In the event a
portion of such premises shall be used for non-residential purposes, the owner
shall have the privilege of separating the water so that the residential
portion of the premises is served through a separate meter, and in such case,
the water usage as registered by the water meter serving such portion of the
premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the sprinkling rate.
      (6)   A user of sewage services shall not be eligible for the foregoing
sprinkler credit if that user was (voluntarily or involuntarily) disconnected
from water for any portion of the previous months of March, April and May.
(1998 Code, § 17-6) (Ord. passed 10-18-2005; Ord. 01-2008, passed 5-6-2008;
Ord. 17-6.1, passed 7-19-2011; Ord. 05-2014, passed 6-3-2014)
§ 50.43 UNCLAIMED UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to deposit any unclaimed utility
deposit in the General Fund of the town; provided that, any unclaimed deposit
must first be at least seven years old and that the unclaimed deposit exists
after off-set against any water and sewage bills outstanding against the owners
of the deposit.
(1998 Code, § 17-8)
§ 50.44 WATER USE AND RATES.
   There is hereby established for the use of and the service rendered by the
water works system of the town, the following rates and charges based on the
use of water supplied by the water works system. (Pursuant to I.C. 36-4-3-7.)
   (A)   Consumption per month rate per 1,000 gallons.
 
First 2,500 gallons $7.50
Next 7,500 gallons  $7.50
Next 30,000 gallons $6.54
Next 40,000 gallons $3.74
 
   (B)   Minimum rates.
Meter Size Cost Per Month
Meter Size       Cost Per Month
5/8 inch meter   $18.75
3/4 inch meter   $37.45
1 inch meter     $74.76
1-1/4 inch meter $93.43
1-1/2 inch meter $131.08
2 inch meter     $142.96
3 inch meter     $276.95
4 inch meter     $419.23
6 inch meter     $747.32
 
   (C)   Fire protection services - hydrant rental.
 
Municipal hydrant charge                       $25,998 (paid by town)
Private hydrant                                Per hydrant $587.66
New meter deposits for customers or landowners $150
 
   (D)   Sprinkler connection charges.
 
Size of Connection Per Year Charge
2-inch connection  $276.81
4-inch connection  $276.81
6-inch connection  $622.77
8-inch connection  $1,024.16
 
   (E)   Tap charge. A tap charge shall be collected from each customer, prior
to connection to the water system, in an amount sufficient to reimburse the
town for the labor, materials and overhead necessary for tapping the main,
installation of service from the main to the property line (including the curb
stop), and the cost of furnishing and installing a suitable water meter. The
tap charge for the minimum 5/8-inch to 3/4-inch tap shall be $1,500. The tap
charge for a 1-inch or larger tap will be the cost of labor and materials, with
a minimum charge of $1,500.
   (F)   Establishing new service.
      (1)   New or moving customers applying for utility service shall do so in
person at the Monon Utility office and shall put down a deposit before any
utility service will be rendered. Interest will not be paid on any part of the
deposit.
      (2)   When submitting the application for utility service, the applicant
will be asked for proof of identification (valid driver’s license or picture
identification). This is necessary to aid in the collection process, if
necessary, and to eliminate possible falsification of whom is actually residing
at the service address. A copy of the proof document will be attached to the
application form.
      (3)   When a previously terminated account (owner-occupied or renter)
returns to establish a new account after a period of time has elapsed, any
delinquent utility bills owed by said new account applicant, including amounts
previously written off as bad debt, must be reimbursed before a new account
will be established.
   (G)   Collection and deferred payment charges. 
      (1)   All bills for water services not paid within 15 days from the issue
date thereof, as stated in such bills, shall be subject to the collection or
deferred payment charge of 10% in the first $3 and 3% on the excess over $3.
      (2)   If an active account (owner-occupied or renter) continually becomes
or remains past due (determined by multiple application of penalty charges
against the account), or service has been discontinued due to non-payment, a
deposit equal to double the established schedule may be required for
continuation or re-establishment of service.
      (3)   Appropriate adjustments may be made to the owner/occupant for
billing errors and/or water leaks. It is the responsibility of the owner/
occupant to notify the Utility Office of any such errors and/or leaks. A high
bill due to a water leak of the owner/occupant will be adjusted one time per
calendar year at the request of the owner/occupant.
      (4)   Non-sufficient funds check return shall be charged $35. The Utility
Office will make a courtesy call to the owner/occupant to notify them of the
returned check. The amount of the returned check plus the charge shall be paid
in cash on the same day the check is returned to the Utility Office. If the
Utility Office is unable to contact the owner/occupant, service will be
disconnected with that charge being added to the other charges.
   (H)   Bill frequency. The rates and charges shall be billed monthly by the
town based upon monthly or quarterly meter readings. In the event quarterly
meter readings are used, the first two months billings of such quarter will be
estimated and adjusted to actual usage in the third month.
   (I)   Termination of water services.
      (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice approximately one week before
the end of the month. If payment is not received by the first of the following
month, service will be disconnected on the second business day of the month;
and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the Town
Clerk. The Town Clerk shall be authorized to order that the customer's service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer's complaint.
      (2)   In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the
hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time
specified, but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at
least 15 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid. A reconnect fee in the
amount of $50 will be charged. Reconnect fees shall be paid in full before
services will be restored.
   (J)   Authority to adopt water rates. The rates and charges to be collected
by the municipal water works system shall be determined by vote of the Town
Council at a regularly scheduled meeting, and such rates and charges shall not
be subject to review by the Public Service Commission of the state. The water
works, including its facilities for treatment, storage and distribution, is
removed from the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state
insofar as user rates and charges are concerned.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 6-17-2008; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-19-2023)
§ 50.45 SEWAGE USE AND RATES.
   (A)   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the
town.
   (B)   The rates and charges shall include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determined in this chapter.
   (C)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water
used on or in the property or premises subject to the rates and charges, as the
same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge based on
the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise provided.
For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges monthly, the users shall
be billed each month (or period equaling a month). The water usage schedule on
which the amount of the rates and charges shall be determined is as follows:
All Class I Users  
All Class I Users               
1. Treatment rate - total treatment rate per 1,000 gallons:
For service provided           Rate
   On or after 5-4-2023     $9.94
Plus
2. Base rate - monthly base rate:
   On or after 5-4-2023     Rate
      5/8" - 3/4" water m$24.73
      1" water meter     $57.44
      1-1/4" water meter $89.98
      1-1/2" water meter $129.30
      2" water meter     $221.04
      3" water meter     $504.00
      4" water meter     $896.24
      6" water meter or l$2,009.61
 
   (D)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or
accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined by equivalent single-family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month). The schedule on which the rates and charges shall be
determined is as follows:
Unit Type
Unit Type
On or after 5-4-2023              Rate
   Residential
      Single-family/unit    $65.25
      Apartment/unit        $48.35
   Commercial
      Retail establishment:
         First 3 employee$64.51
         Each additional $21.48ee
 
   (E)   For services rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges hereinabove provided or to charges and rates established
in harmony therewith.
   (F)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial waste, the town
shall charge the user no less than $42 per sample or cost thereof. This charge
will be reviewed on the same basis as all other rates and charges in this
chapter.
   (G)   Any lot, parcel of real estate or building that is connected to a
sewer built after the date of this chapter, the cost of which is financed by
sewer revenue bonds of the town, shall pay a capital connection charge of
$1,500.
   (H)   Establishing new service.
      (1)   New or moving customers applying for utility service shall do so in
person at the Utility Office and shall put down a deposit before any utility
service will be rendered. Interest will not be paid on any part of the deposit.
      (2)   When submitting the application for utility service, the applicant
will be asked for proof of identification (valid driver’s license or picture
identification). This is necessary to aid in the collection process, if
necessary, and to eliminate possible falsification of who is residing at the
service address. A copy of the proof document will be attached to the
application form.
      (3)   When a previously terminated account (owner-occupied or renter)
returns to establish a new account after a period of time has elapsed, any
delinquent utility bills owed by said new account applicant, including amounts
previously written off as bad debt, must be reimbursed before a new account
will be established.
   (I)   Termination of services.
      (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice approximately one week before
the end of the month. If payment is not received by the first of the following
month, service will be disconnected on the second business day of the month;
and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the Town
Clerk. The Town Clerk shall be authorized to order that the customer's service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer's complaint.
      (2)   In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the
hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time
specified, but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at
least 15 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid. A reconnect fee in the
amount of $50 will be charged. Reconnect fees shall be paid in full before
services will be restored.
(Ord. 07-2008, passed 10-21-2008; Ord. 2023-03, passed 4-19-2023)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.60 BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connecting the sewage treatment works,
for the construction and use of house sewers and connection to the sewerage
system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of the rates
and charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town or to require methods
affecting pre-treatment of the wastes to comply with the pre-treatment
standards included in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit issued to the sewage works.
(1998 Code, § 17-3-7)
 
§ 50.61 APPEAL PROCESS.
   Any differences that may arise between users and officials of the sewage
works that cannot be resolved at that level may be appealed to the Town
Council.
(1998 Code, § 17-3-8)
§ 50.62 INSPECTIONS, OBSERVATIONS, MEASUREMENT, SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   (A)   The Superintendent, inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to,
the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the town shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town employees, and
town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by town
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in this chapter.
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1998 Code, § 17-4-11)
§ 50.63 POWERS FOR INSPECTION.
   The County Health Officer or his or her agent bearing proper credentials and
identifications shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at the proper
time for purposes of inspection, observation, measurements, sampling and
testing necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 17-5-3)
§ 50.64 NOTICES.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter may be served
by the County Board of Health or the duly appointed Health Officer, with a
written order stating the nature of the violation and providing a time limit
for satisfactory correction thereof.
(1998 Code, § 17-5-4)
§ 50.65 PROGRAM FOR PROTECTING THE MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   CROSS-CONNECTION shall mean any physical connection or arrangement
between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water
from the town water system and the other, water from a private source, water of
unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases or chemicals, whereby there may
be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the
pressure differential between the two systems.
   (B)   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or
permit to be maintained any cross-connection or cross-connection potential. No
interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of the municipality,
unless the private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of the supply shall have been approved by the Town Municipal
Water Utility and by the State Department of Environmental Management in
accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-10, as amended.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the Town Water Utility
to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water
system where cross-connection with the public water system is deemed possible.
The frequency of inspections and reinspections based on potential health
hazards involved shall be as established by the Superintendent.
   (D)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town, or
its agent, shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine any property served by a connection to the public water system of the
town for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of any
property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on the property. The refusal
of access or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed
evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
   (E)   The Town Municipal Water Utility is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this chapter exists, and to take other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee or occupant of the property or premises where a violation is
found or suspected to exist. Water service to the property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   If it is deemed by the Town Municipal Water Utility that a cross-
connection, cross-connection potential or an emergency endangers public health,
safety or welfare and requires immediate action, and a written finding to that
effect is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town and delivered to the
consumer’s premises, service may be immediately discontinued. The consumer
shall have an opportunity for a hearing before the Town Council within ten days
of the emergency discontinuance.
   (G)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, including, but not
limited to, clinics, fertilizer plants, mortuaries, wastewater treatment
plants, laboratories and all other known hazardous chemical users, shall
install and maintain a reduced-pressure principal backflow preventer in the
main water line servicing each building on the premises. The backflow preventer
must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding or
freezing.
   (H)   All backflow preventer devices shall be tested by an inspector
licensed to do so by the state as and when required by any applicable state or
federal law, regulations and reports of all tests shall be forwarded in writing
to the Superintendent of the Town Water Utility within ten days after the
testing.
   (I)   This section does not supersede the State Uniform Plumbing Code or any
ordinance of the town, but is supplementary to them.
(1998 Code, § 17-9)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof.
      (2)   The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      (3)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for, shall be guilty of a class C infraction and, on conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation.
Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
      (4)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
town by reason of the violation.
(1998 Code, § 17-4-12)
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. On conviction, the violator shall be punished for
the first offense by a fine of not more than $500; and for the second offense
by a fine of not more than $1,000; and for the third and each subsequent
offense by a fine of not more than $1,000 to which may be added imprisonment
for any determinate period not exceeding 90 days and, each day after the
expiration of the time limit for abating insanitary conditions and completing
improvements to abate the conditions as ordered by the County Board of Health
or by the duly appointed Health Officer of the county shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense.
(1998 Code, § 17-5-5)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Control and regulation of motor vehicles
   
70.02   Removal of vehicles
   
70.03   Open container of alcoholic beverages
   
70.04   Alleys
   
70.05   Noise and abandonment of motor vehicles
   
70.06   Bicycles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 CONTROL AND REGULATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, operating a motor vehicle in the
town, to fail to bring the motor vehicle to a complete stop at any intersection
designated as a stop intersection by the placement of a stop sign or automatic
traffic signal, as defined by state law, I.C. 9-21-3-1 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle in the
town to fail to yield the right-of-way to other motor vehicles at any
intersection designated as a yield intersection by the placement of a yield
sign, as defined by state law, I.C. 9-21-4-19, as amended.
   (C)   All stop signs and yield signs now in place in the town are now
declared to be lawfully in place.
(1998 Code, § 8-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Marshal or Deputy Town Marshal shall have reasonable
cause to believe that any vehicle is parked in a manner as to be in violation
of the parking ordinance of the town or cause to believe is parked on public
property in a manner as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement
of pedestrian or vehicle traffic on a public right-of-way, street or alley in
the town, he or she shall make a reasonable effort to notify the owner or
driver of the aforementioned vehicle that it is in violation of the ordinance
or constitutes a hazard or obstruction.
   (B)   If, after the notification and request, the owner or driver of the
vehicle refuses to move the vehicle, the Town Marshal or Deputy Town Marshal
shall have authority to immediately summon a towing service for the removal of
the vehicle from the area it is located and shall issue a summons for the
person to appear in the White Superior Court to answer for violation of the
ordinance.
   (C)   The reasonable cost of removal of the vehicle shall be borne by the
owner or driver of the vehicle and, upon payment of the costs, the vehicle
shall be released to its owner or driver.
   (D)   When the owner or driver of the vehicle cannot be located after
reasonable efforts have been made to locate and/or notify him or her, the Town
Marshal or Deputy Town Marshal shall have authority to have the vehicle
immediately towed pursuant to the above provisions.
(1998 Code, § 8-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 OPEN CONTAINER OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while an operator or passenger in
a motor vehicle, to possess, consume or offer to others for consumption any
alcoholic beverage in an open bottle, open can or open container.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while on or about any public
street, public parking area, private parking area or drive-in restaurant, to
possess, consume or offer to others for consumption any alcoholic beverage in
an open bottle, open can or open container.
(1998 Code, § 8-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 ALLEYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, in any manner, the
free flow of traffic over and upon any alley within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any
motor vehicle on any alley located in the business district within the town.
(1998 Code, § 8-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Use of alleys, see §
94.02
§ 70.05 NOISE AND ABANDONMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a motor vehicle, while on or
adjacent to a private parking area or drive-in restaurant, to race the engine
of his or her motor vehicle, or to make or cause to be made any loud or
offensive noise of any and all kinds whatsoever, to blow or cause to be blown
the horn of the motor vehicle for any purpose other than those specifically
authorized by state law, I.C. 9-19-5-1 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a motor vehicle to leave the
same unoccupied upon the premises of a private parking area or drive-in
restaurant, except with the knowledge and consent of the owner or rightful
occupier of the premises.
(1998 Code, § 8-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 BICYCLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or operate a bicycle,
skateboard, roller skates or roller blades upon the sidewalks within the
business district of the town.
   (B)   Every person riding or operating a bicycle, skateboard, roller skates
or roller blades shall strictly observe all traffic signs, signals, rules and
regulations applicable thereto and shall obey the orders and directions of
every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
   (C)   Every bicycle, skateboard, roller skates or roller blades shall be
kept to the right and shall be operated as near as practicable to the right-
hand edge of the roadway.
   (D)   Any person riding or operating a bicycle, skateboard, roller skates or
roller blades shall yield the right-of-way in the following circumstances:
      (1)   When a pedestrian is crossing or about to cross a roadway;
      (2)   When a pedestrian is in a crosswalk or at an intersection when the
signal light changes; and/or
      (3)   When a motor vehicle is approaching so close as to be a hazard.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or operate a bicycle,
skateboard, roller skates or roller blades in a manner as to endanger,
interfere with, block or impede the free passage of motor vehicle traffic upon
roadways within the town. Any person riding or operating a bicycle, skateboard,
roller skates or roller blades, where permitted, shall yield the right-of-way
to pedestrians and shall make an audible signal to any person being passed.
(1998 Code, § 13-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the terms of §
70.01 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 8-3)
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of §
70.03 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 8-2)
   (D)   Any person violating the terms of §
70.04 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 8-5)
   (E)   Any person violating the terms of §
70.05 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 8-1)
   (F)   Any person violating the terms of §
70.06 commits a class D infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended, punishable by a fine of up to $25. For each violation of §
70.06, the Town Marshal may impound the bicycle, skateboard, roller skates or
roller blades for a period not exceeding 30 days when the Town Marshal
reasonably believes the person’s operation of the bicycle, skateboard, roller
skates or roller blades constitutes a threat to himself, herself or any other
person.
(1998 Code, § 13-3)
CHAPTER 71: OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Registered; identification
   
71.03   Operation
   
71.04   Equipment
   
71.05   Parking
   
71.06   License required
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Natural Resources.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Natural Resources.
   HIGHWAY, STREET or RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width between the boundary lines
of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of
the public for purposes of vehicle travel.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A motor-driven vehicle capable of cross-country travel,
without the benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water,
snow, ice, marsh, swampland or other natural terrain. The term includes, but is
not limited to, a multi-wheel or low pressure tire vehicle, amphibious machine,
ground effect air cushion vehicle or other means of transportation deriving
motor power from a source other than muscle or wind. OFF-ROAD VEHICLE shall not
include a farm vehicle being used for farming, a vehicle used for military or
law enforcement purposes, a construction, mining or other industrial related
vehicle used in performance of its common function, a snowmobile or a
registered aircraft, and does not include for registration any other vehicle
properly registered by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, and any water craft which
is registered pursuant to state statutes.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, and to be in actual physical control of the
operation of an off-road vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of an
off-road vehicle.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien-holder, who has the property in or title
to an off-road vehicle and is entitled to the use of possession thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, the state and any of its
agencies or subdivisions and any body of persons, whether incorporated or not.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any motor vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow or ice
of a type which utilizes sled-type runners or skis or an endless belt or any
combination of these or similar means of contact with the surface upon which it
is operated.
(1998 Code, § 8-7) (Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-21-2018)
§ 71.02 REGISTERED; IDENTIFICATION.
   All off-road vehicles and snowmobiles shall be registered and display
identification numbers pursuant to Indiana Code. Certificates of registration
shall accompany the vehicle or snowmobile and shall be made available for
inspection upon demand by an officer.
(1998 Code, § 8-7) (Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-21-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 OPERATION.
   (A)   All off-road vehicles and snowmobiles can be operated on the public
right-of-way adjacent to the traveled portion of the public street only if
there is sufficient width to operate at a reasonable distance off and away from
the traveled portion and in a manner so as not to endanger life or property.
   (B)   The operator of an off-road vehicle or snowmobile may cross the public
right-of-way at right angles for the purpose of getting from one area to
another when the operation can be done in safety. The operator shall bring his
or her off-road vehicle or snowmobile to a complete stop before proceeding
across the public right-of-way and shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic.
The operator shall not travel the public highway.
   (C)   The operator of an off-road vehicle or snowmobile shall maintain and
obey all traffic signs and regulations while operating within the town. The
purpose of operation is for the off-road vehicle or snowmobiles to operate only
from one location to another, not for the use of operation around town, side
streets or alleys (pleasure operation).
   (D)   The operator of an off-road vehicle or snowmobile shall not operate it
on private property, including railroads and schools, without permission from
the property owner.
   (E)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, all streets within
the Town of Monon, Indiana may be utilized for travel by off-road vehicles,
subject to the rules and regulations now existing or hereafter enacted by the
Department of Natural Resources of the State of Indiana and applicable laws.
   (F)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on town streets pursuant
to I.C. 14-16-1-23 as amended:
      (1)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper, having
due regard for conditions then existing;
      (2)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or under the
influence of a narcotic or other habit-forming or dangerous depressant or
stimulant drug;
      (3)   Without displaying a lighted headlight and a lighted taillight;
      (4)   While transporting thereon a bow unless unstrung or a firearm
unless unloaded. This division does not apply to a person who is carrying a
handgun if the person:
         (a)   Has been issued an unlimited handgun license to carry a handgun
under I.C. 35-47-2; or
         (b)   Is not required to possess a license to carry a handgun under
state law;
      (5)   On or across a cemetery or burial ground;
      (6)   On a railroad track or railroad right-of-way, except personnel in
performance of their duties;
      (7)   In or upon any flowing river, stream, or creek, except for the
purpose of crossing by the shortest possible route, unless of sufficient water
depth to permit movement by flotation of the vehicle at all times;
      (8)   An individual shall not operate a vehicle while a bow is present in
or on the vehicle if the nock of an arrow is in position on the string of the
bow;
      (9)   If under the age of 16 years; or
      (10)   During the hours from sunrise to sunset, except that employees of
the Town of Monon may operate the town's off-road vehicles at such other times
as deemed necessary and appropriate by town employees.
(1998 Code, § 8-7) (Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-21-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 EQUIPMENT.
   All off-road vehicles and snowmobiles shall be equipped with one functional
headlight, one functional taillight illuminated at all times, a muffler in good
working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and adequate brakes
capable of producing deceleration at 14 feet per second on level ground at a
speed of 20 miles per hour.
(1998 Code, § 8-7) (Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-21-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PARKING.
   The operator of an off-road vehicle or snowmobile shall not park the vehicle
in the business area or business district.
(1998 Code, § 8-7) (Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-21-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   The operator of an off-road vehicle or snowmobile shall not operate the
vehicle on a public right-of-way without a valid motor vehicle license.
(1998 Code, § 8-7) (Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-21-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the terms of this chapter commits a class C infraction,
as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as amended.
(1998 Code, § 8-7) (Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-21-2018)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, unless otherwise specified in this schedule, for
a person to drive any motor vehicle on the streets of the town at a speed more
than 20 mph, except on the streets that are under the control of the State
Highway Commission.
Street Location Speed Limit
Street                    Location                                  Speed Limit
                          From a point 1,550 feet west of Oak
                          Street to a point of 50 feet west of Oak  40 mph,
                          Street, a distance of approximately 1,500 55 mph
                          feet
                          From a point 100 feet east of Holly
Broadway Street (S.R. 16) Street to a point 1,100 feet east of      55 mph
                          Holly Street, a distance of approximately
                          1,000 feet
                          From a point 50 feet west of Oak Street   30 mph,
                          to a point 100 feet east of Holly Street, 40 mph,
                          a distance of approximately 2,350 feet    55 mph
                          From a point 1,610 feet south of the
                          Little Monon Dredge Ditch to a point 110  40 mph,
                          feet south of the Little Monon Dredge     55 mph
                          Ditch, a distance of approximately 1,500
                          feet
                          From a point 630 north of North Monroe
                          Street to a point 1,630 feet north of     55 mph
                          North Monroe Street, a distance of
                          approximately 1,000 feet
                          From a point 110 feet south of the Little 20 mph,
                          Monon Dredge Ditch to a point 220 feet    30 mph,
Market Street (U.S. 421)  north of 2nd Street, a distance of        40 mph
                          approximately 1,050 feet
                          From a point 35 feet north of 5th Street  30 mph,
                          to a point 630 feet north of North Monroe 40 mph,
                          Street, a distance of approximately 2,880 50 mph
                          feet
                          From a point 220 feet north of 2nd Street 20 mph,
                          to a point 35 feet north of 5th Street, a 30mph
                          distance of approximately 1,625 feet
                          From a point 310 feet south of Reed
                          Street to a point 350 feet north of Reed  35 mph
                          Street, a distance of approximately 660
                          feet
Bedford Road              From Pine Street to the town limits       35 mph
 
   (B)   Any person violating the terms of this schedule commits a class C
infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as amended.
(1998 Code, § 8-4) (Ord. 2016-09, passed 9-6-2016)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stop a motor vehicle in
violation of any posted no parking zone or in violation of any posted parking
information sign or instruction. Parking areas or zones may be so designated as
no-parking zones or restricted parking zones by the placement of an appropriate
sign at the location or by painting the curb at the location, as defined by
state law, I.C. 9-21-16 et seq., and I.C. 5-16-9 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle on the
following streets of the town, except as follows:
 
Street                 Location                     Type of Parking/Restriction
                       From the first north-south
                       alley west of Market Street  Parallel parking on both
4th Street             (U.S. 421) to the first      sides
                       north-south alley east of
                       Market Street (U.S. 421)
                       From a point 40 feet south   Parking not to exceed a 2-
                       of 4th Street to 3rd Street  hour limit on both sides
                       From a point 100 feet north  Parking not to exceed a 2-
Market Street (US 421) of 4th Street to 5th Street  hour limit on both sides
                       South of S.R. 16 and north   No parking of any semi,
                       of 5th Street                tractor trailer or truck of
                                                    any kind
                                                    Unlawful for any person to
Race Street            South of 1st Street          park any vehicle within the
                                                    public right-of-way
 
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle of over one-
ton capacity in any posted two-hour parking zone, except for loading or
unloading of passengers or merchandise.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any semi, tractor trailer,
or truck of any kind upon any portion of Market Street (US 421) south of State
Road 16 and north of 1st Street.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to park, except for loading or unloading not to
exceed one hour, in a residential area, any vehicle designed, used or
maintained as a commercial vehicle including semi-tractors and/or trailers,
buses, or any other vehicle designed or registered as a truck and licensed for
the transportation of property. A commercial vehicle shall not include station-
wagon types, pick-up trucks, or vans designed and used as a passenger-type
vehicle. However, notwithstanding this provision to the contrary, a semi-
tractor, without a trailer, may be parked in a residential area if parked in an
off-street driveway with access to a city street with a curb cut and driveway,
so long as any sidewalk is not thereby obstructed.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to park on a public street or roadway in a
residential area, or a parking lot owned or maintained by the town, motor
homes, RVs and any non-motorized objects of any kind including boats, trailers
of any kind or inoperable motor vehicles.
   (G)   No person shall operate or park any motor vehicle on any yard or
portion of a lot in any residential area other than on a drive or, in any way,
requiring the vehicle to drive over a curb instead of through a curb cut.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle upon or park any
object of any kind, motorized or non-motorized, within any portion of an
abandoned railway bed within the town which is adjacent to a public street or
roadway.
   (I)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be subject
to a fine of $10 if paid within 72 hours of issuance and $25 if paid
thereafter.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 6-3-2008; Ord. 2016-11, passed 9-20-2016; Ord. 2022-07,
passed 7-20-2022)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   TREES
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Dogs
   
90.02   Animal control and disposition
   
90.03   Vicious animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to
suffer, permit or allow the same to run at large on any public street, alley,
unenclosed lot, tract or parcel of ground within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to
keep, tether, harbor or tie up the same in any place, excepting a house, shed,
enclosure, garage or other building or a lot or part thereof with an enclosure
thereon sufficiently strong and of a nature to keep the dog confined therein.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to
suffer, permit or allow the same to bark, howl or otherwise interfere with or
disturb the peace, quiet dignity and tranquility of any home or neighborhood.
(1998 Code, § 3-1) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 ANIMAL CONTROL AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall be authorized and ordered to capture, pick up
or detain any dog determined by him or her to be running at large within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Upon the capture, pick up or detention, the animal shall be delivered
to a veterinarian licensed by the state, and designated by the town, who shall
hold the animal for a period not to exceed three full days, during which time
the animal may be claimed by its owner, keeper or harborer after payment of the
fees and charges stated in this section.
   (C)   To claim any animal having come under the control of the veterinarian
described above, the owner, keeper or harborer thereof must pay the following
fees and charges and provide the following proof:
      (1)   A sum, as set by Town Council from time to time, per day to the
veterinarian for the boarding of the animal;
      (2)   A sum, as set by Town Council from time to time, to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, which sum shall be deposited in the General Fund of the town;
      (3)   Written documentation evidencing proof that the animal has had the
rabies shots prescribed by law and been so vaccinated; and
   (D)   In the event that the animal is not claimed by its owner within the
three-day period, then the veterinarian is authorized to dispose of the animal
in a humane manner.
(1998 Code, § 3-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person who owns or keeps: a vicious animal; any dog that is of
breed commonly referred to as “pit bull” and commonly recognizable and
identifiable as such; an akita; an American pit bull terrier; an American
Staffordshire terrier; a chow chow; a doberman; a Staffordshire bull terrier; a
Staffordshire terrier; a pressa canarios (Spanish pit bull); a rottweiler; a
shar pei; a wolf hybrid; any dog whose sire or dam is one of the aforementioned
dogs; any dog known by the owner(s) to be a pit bull or one of the
aforementioned dogs; any dog identifiable as having any of the aforementioned
dogs as an element in their breeding; any animal with a known vicious
propensity, tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause injury to or
otherwise threaten the safety of human beings or domestic animals; any animal
which, because of its vicious propensity, is capable of inflicting serious
physical harm or death to humans and which would constitute a danger to human
life or property if it were not kept in the manner required by this section;
any animal which, without provocation, attacks, bites or has attacked or bitten
a human being or domestic animal; and any animal owned, kept, harbored or
trained primarily or in part for the purpose of animal fighting; shall be
required to constantly restrain the animal in one of the following ways:
      (1)   By keeping the dog confined within an enclosed building on the
owner’s or keeper’s premises;
      (2)   By keeping the dog within a completely fenced and locked pen of
chain link at least six feet high with metal top rail and concrete footing and
completely covered with strong material sufficient to prevent the escape of the
dog, the pen to be marked with a “beware of dog” sign on all sides;
      (3)   By walking the dog, only on a strong leash no longer that six feet
in length and directly held and controlled by a person over 18 years of age and
physically capable of controlling the dog and the dog being muzzled at all
times;
      (4)   By keeping the dog confined within a locked vehicle sufficiently
enclosed to prevent the escape of the dog and to prevent innocent passers-by
from attempting to pet the dog; and/or
      (5)   The owner, keeper or harborer of a vicious animal shall post or
display in a prominent place on his or her premises a clearly visible warning
sign indicating that a vicious animal is on the premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any animal
for the purpose of fighting, nor shall the person train, torment, badger, bait
or use any animal for the purpose of causing or encouraging the animal to
attack human beings or domestic animals within the town.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 2-1-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the terms of §
90.01 shall be fined according to §
10.99, as amended.
(1998 Code, § 3-1)
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of §
90.02 commits a class C infraction and shall be subject to penalties as set
forth in I.C. 34-28-5-4, as amended.
(1998 Code, § 3-2)
   (D)   Any person violating the terms of §
90.03 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended, and shall be subject to a penalty in a sum not to exceed $500 for the
first offense. Any person violating the terms of §
90.03 multiple times shall be subject to a penalty in a sum not to exceed
$7,500 per offense pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)(ii). A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 3-3, passed 2-1-2011)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
   
91.01   Control of burning
   
91.02   Prohibited fires
   
91.03   Fireworks
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 CONTROL OF BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage or waste materials
within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn leaves, brush, weeds or
other flammable material within the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain an open fire within
the town.
(1998 Code, § 7-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 PROHIBITED FIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle, maintain or cause to be
kindled or maintained any bonfire or rubbish fire upon any public street or
alley in the town, which street or alley is covered by blacktop, concrete, chip
and seal or other similar surface.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle, maintain or cause to be
kindled or maintained any bonfire or rubbish fire upon any public street,
alley, road or other public ground in the town without a written permit from
the Chief of the Town Fire Department. During construction or demolition of
buildings or other structures, no waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed
of by burning on the premises where the construction or demolition is taking
place or in the immediate vicinity without a written permit from the Chief of
the Town Fire Department.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle, maintain or cause to be
kindled or maintained any bonfire or rubbish fire upon any private land unless
the fire is contained in an approved burner located not less than 15 feet from
any building, garage, shed, pole, fence or other structure. An approved burner
shall meet the following specifications:
      (1)   The burner shall be so construed so as to prevent the spread of
fire outside of the burner itself;
      (2)   The burner shall be constructed of metal or masonry with four sides
and a bottom so constructed as to allow no openings, except for cleaning and
draft, and these openings shall be so protected as to prevent the escape of
sparks or fire; and
      (3)   The top of the burner shall be constructed as to allow the proper
escape of smoke and gases, but shall be equipped with a spark arrestor with
openings no larger than one-half inch so as to prevent the escape of sparks or
other large pieces of burning matter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle, maintain or cause to be
kindled or maintained any bonfire or rubbish fire between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. local time.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle, maintain or cause to be
kindled or maintained any bonfire or rubbish fire unless the fire is constantly
attended until the fire is extinguished. The person shall have the necessary
means readily available to extinguish the fire.
   (F)   Any person who shall construct an approved burner or shall kindle or
maintain a bonfire or rubbish fire or who shall maintain any fire shall take
into consideration and abide by all public health and environmental laws,
articles or regulations which may now or hereafter be passed or adopted by the
appropriate state or federal authorities. Burners, bonfires or rubbish fires
shall not be kindled or maintained where they constitute a public nuisance.
(1998 Code, § 5-1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Consumer fireworks as defined by I.C. 22-11-14-1.
   (B)   Days and hours of use. Consumer fireworks may not be used, ignited or
discharged within the corporate limits of the town, except during the following
times:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, July 9 and
Labor Day;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and/
or
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (C)   Nuisance. Use or discharge of fireworks which causes serious annoyance
or disturbance to a neighborhood or the residents therein by loud, frequent or
habitual noise is declared to be a nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to
conduct the activities.
   (D)   Minors. It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care, custody and control of a minor under the age of 18
years to knowingly permit the minor to fire, shoot off or discharge any
fireworks within the limits of the town.
   (E)   Liability. Any person shall be liable for damage to person or property
caused by the use or discharge of fireworks, and shall also be liable for costs
of fire service by a responding fire department, as defined in I.C. 22-11-14-1,
or other emergency services necessitated by the use or discharge of fireworks.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-2-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the terms of §
91.01 commits a class B infraction and is subject to penalties as set forth in
I.C. 34-28-5-4, as amended.
      (2)   Any burning permitted by 326 I.A.C. 1-8, as amended, shall not
constitute a violation of §
91.01.
(1998 Code, § 7-3)
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of §
91.02 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 5-1)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
91.03 shall be subject to a fine in an amount of $50 for the first violation,
payable at the Town Hall. Any subsequent violation shall subject the violator
to a fine of up to $2,500 per violation. In addition to any fine and court
costs, violators shall reimburse the town for the cost of responding emergency
services, if any.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-2-2007)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Nuisances generally
   
92.02   Weeds
   
92.03   Garbage
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 NUISANCES GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any dwelling,
building, structure, yard or place within the town to suffer or permit it to
become a nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a licensed motor
vehicle or farm implement dealer, to keep, park, store or maintain or cause to
be kept, parked, stored or maintained on any private or public grounds or
property within the town and within the public view, any junk, dismantled,
disused or abandoned motor vehicle or farm implement of any kind and all kinds
whatsoever which are not currently and legally registered and licensed.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed motor vehicle or farm implement
dealer to keep, park, store or maintain or cause to be kept, parked, stored or
maintained within any residential area within the town any motor vehicle or
farm implement as stated in division (B) above.
   (D)   It shall be a nuisance for any real property owner to allow any tree
to remain on the property of the real property owner which has dead limbs,
trunks or material which may pose a risk or which poses imminent risk to a
motor vehicle utilizing a city street or to pedestrian utilizing a city street
or sidewalk located within the town.
   (E)   A person who recklessly, knowingly or intentionally places or leaves
refuse on property of the town or of another person, except in a container
provided for refuse, commits a violation of this section.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REFUSE. Includes solid and semi-solid wastes, dead animals and offal.
   (G)   Evidence that littering was committed from a moving vehicle other than
a public conveyance constitutes prima facie evidence that it was committed by
the operator of that vehicle.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 WEEDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a landowner or tenant, to
permit noxious weeds and unsightly and overgrown grass or brush to grow and
accumulate on property within the town.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to procure notices to be
delivered to the owner or tenant of any real estate, and served and delivered
by the Town Marshal, which notice shall contain a description of the real
estate on which the weeds or grass or brush is growing, and shall notify the
owner or tenant thereof to cut all the weeds and grass and brush within ten
days from the receipt of the notice.
   (C)   In the event the owner of the real estate is a non-resident of the
town, the notice shall then be served in a like manner upon the agent of the
owner.
(1998 Code, § 7-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 GARBAGE.
   (A)   The town shall provide garbage, trash and refuse collection for
residents and those businesses that elect to do so by contracting with a
private individual or firm for the service to be furnished on at least a year
to year basis.
   (B)   The town shall advertise for bidders for the garbage service and may
award a contract to the lowest and best bidder. The minimum terms of any
contract awarded shall be one year, but may be extended to a term not to exceed
five years. The successful bidder shall provide a performance bond for the
amount of the annual cost of collection service for the duration of the
contract.
   (C)   Residents and businesses of the town will be provided with collection
of trash and garbage on a once a week basis to the extent that any resident's
or business's trash or garbage does not stick out above the tote or exceed a
weight of 40 pounds per bag. This service will be billed to the resident or
business monthly. The current rate is $10.29 and will be $12.90 once new totes
are provided. Effective January 1, 2024, the rate will increase to $13.40. To
the extent that the aforesaid limit is exceeded, each resident or business will
be individually liable for the cost of collection of the excess. There is an
allowance of one bulky item per week. Mattresses, box springs and upholstered
furniture must be wrapped in plastic to be picked up.
   (D)   Garbage and trash pick-up service will be provided at the curb or edge
of the road or street running in front of each residence or business with the
exception of houses and business located on Market Street, in which case pick-
up will be made from the alley behind the houses and businesses. All trash or
garbage is to be placed in the totes not exceeding the above-stated weight
limitation and placed no nearer than three feet from the edge of the road,
street or curb, and to be clearly visible to facilitate location and pick-up.
   (E)   The Town Council shall designate a day of the week during which
collection is to be made and all trash and garbage shall be in place for pick-
up not later than 7:00 a.m. on the collection day. All empty cans are to be
promptly removed from the edge of the road, street or curb and by not later
than 7:00 p.m. on the collection day.
   (F)   In addition to the trash and garbage limits established above,
residents and businesses may place for pick-up limbs and shrubs not exceeding
two inches in diameter and four feet in length, bundled in a bundle not to
exceed 18 inches diameter and weighing no more than 75 pounds. Loose leaves,
grass clippings, and loose branches and limbs will not be removed.
   (G)   Building materials which cannot be bagged or placed in cans within the
limits set forth by this section will not be collected. Heavy rocks, cement and
automotive parts will not be collected.
   (H)   Residents and businesses having excess trash or garbage over and above
the limits set forth by this section may contact the town's trash contractor
for collection or pick-up of the excess at the individual expense of the
resident or business.
   (I)   Reserved.
   (J)   Residents and businesses who miss the time for pick-up may call the
Town Hall, but the town shall have no responsibility for disposal of trash,
garbage or refuse of residents or businesses that fail to comply with the terms
of this section.
   (K)   The present use of burn barrels will be continued, but the owners or
residents will be responsible for cleaning refuse or burnt residue from the
barrels and bagging or placing the residue in rigid containers for collection
by the contractor. The town will continue spring and fall clean-up of large
articles as may be deemed necessary and reasonable by the Town Council, from
time to time.
   (L)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Food waste and any other organic refuse of a similar nature.
      WASTE. All putrescible and non-putrescible wastes, including, but not
limited to, garbage, household wastes, chemical compounds, industrial wastes,
unused construction materials, building debris and all other materials which
should properly and legally be disposed of at a state-approved landfill.
(1998 Code, § 7-1) (Ord. passed 8-4-1998; Ord. 08-2022, passed 8-17-2022; Ord.
2023-07, passed 8-15-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Trash rates and charges, see §
32.16
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the terms of §
92.01(A) through (D) commits a class B misdemeanor as defined by state law,
I.C. 35-50-3-3, as amended.
      (2)   A person violating §
92.01(E) shall be subject to a fine of not more than $2,500 for the first
offense and a fine of not more than $7,500 for the second offense.
      (3)   Any person maintaining or suffering or permitting the maintenance
of a nuisance as described in §
92.01 not subject hereto shall remove and abate the same within ten days of
receiving notice to do so by the Town Marshal or Town Superintendent, unless
the person, within the ten-day period of time, shall file his or her written
request for a hearing before the Town Council on the abatement notice, the
request to be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer. If the person shall not within
the ten-day period abate and remove the nuisance, or request a hearing, then
the Town Council shall cause the nuisance to be removed and abated. The town
shall keep an accurate record of the expenses incurred in the abatement or
removal. The expense shall be certified by the County Auditor and by the Clerk-
Treasurer; and, the Auditor shall cause the expense to be placed on the tax
duplicate of the person so violating §
92.01 and shall be collected at the time property taxes are collected.
(Ord. passed 11-20-2007)
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of §
92.02 and, thereafter, refusing to comply with the terms of §
92.02, after receiving the notice herein specified, shall be fined, according
to §
10.99, as amended, any sum not exceeding the sum of $75 and costs of the
prosecution.
(1998 Code, § 7-2)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Hours, time of operation
   
93.02   Unlawful behavior
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 HOURS, TIME OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The park shall open on May 1 of each year and shall close on November
1 of each year.
   (B)   During the time period specified above, the park shall be open daily
to the public from 7:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. and until any scheduled baseball
or softball game has been concluded.
(1998 Code, § 10-2)
§ 93.02 UNLAWFUL BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport into, consume, use,
sell, distribute or otherwise possess any alcoholic beverage or illegal drug
inside the park boundaries.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle in any
area other than an area designated for parking. Parking in the grass shall be
allowed, except during the spring wet season or during or after heavy rains.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an unauthorized motor
vehicle inside the white pylons.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a horse in the park,
except on a roadway or street or in the horse arena.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park on or about any park area
unless the person is using the park facilities during park hours. Unauthorized
motor vehicles may be towed at the owner’s expense. Repair of motor vehicles
inside the park is not permitted, except for bonafide emergency repairs
sufficient to permit the motor vehicle to leave or be removed from the park.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle at a
speed in excess of ten mph on or about the park.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or around the shelter
houses or park buildings.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle overnight
or camp overnight in the park.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use skates, roller
skates, roller blades, skateboards or bicycles on the tennis courts or inside
the shelter houses or park buildings.
(1998 Code, § 10-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the terms of this chapter commits a class C infraction
as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as amended.
(1998 Code, § 10-2)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
94.01   Sidewalk maintenance
   
94.02   Use of alleys
   
94.03   Destruction of streets or alleys
   
94.04   Snow removal
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Property owners in the town are responsible to maintain all existing
or pre-existing sidewalks located within the town limits on each property
owner’s lot or lots, and that the property owners will be responsible to
maintain and keep in good repair all sidewalks now situated on their property
or previously situated on their property, at the property owner’s expense.
   (B)   If a property owner fails to maintain in good repair the sidewalks
located on the property owner’s lot or lots, the Superintendent of the town
shall have the authority to inspect and order appropriate sidewalk maintenance
be completed by the property owner within 30 days, at the property owner’s
expense.
   (C)   Any sidewalk removed, buried or damaged by a property owner or on
behalf of a property owner shall be replaced according to the Town
Superintendent’s requirements within 30 days from the date of removal or
damage, at the property owner’s expense.
   (D)   If the Town Superintendent determines that a sidewalk should be
constructed upon a property where no sidewalk is located, the Town
Superintendent may order a property owner to construct a sidewalk according to
the Superintendent’s requirements, at the property owner’s expense.
   (E)   If a property owner fails to follow the Town Superintendent’s order
issued under divisions (B) or (D) above or fails to meet the requirements set
forth in division (C) above, then the Superintendent shall report the property
owner’s failure to the Town Council. The Town Council shall have the authority
to order the work completed at the property owner’s expense as set forth in
I.C. 36-9-36-17.
   (F)   As used in this section, the term MAINTAIN shall mean to ensure the
existence of a concrete surface or surfaces which are flat, with a grade of
less than five degrees of slope, multiple sidewalk sections must be a constant
height not to vary more than one inch in height from section to section; and
the sidewalk section or sections must be without cracks which hinder or impede
the use of the sidewalk. Sidewalks must be a minimum of 48 inches in width and
four inches in depth.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 10-2-2007) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 USE OF ALLEYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, in any manner, the
free flow of motor vehicular traffic over or upon any alley within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any
vehicle on any alley located in the business district of the town.
(1998 Code, § 13-2) Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Alleys, see §
70.04
§ 94.03 DESTRUCTION OF STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig into, tear up, damage or
otherwise destroy for any purpose any street or alley within the town without
first obtaining a special permit to do so, which permit shall be approved by
the Street Department Superintendent and the Town Council.
   (B)   Any person desiring to dig into, tear up, damage or otherwise destroy
any street, curb, or alley shall make written application to the Town Council
for a permit to do so, stating in the application the place at which and the
purpose for which he or she desires to dig into, tear up, damage or otherwise
destroy any street, curb, or alley; and shall pay the stated permit inspection
fee of $50.
   (C)   Per the White County Zoning Ordinance Parking and Loading Standards §
8.6.2.(C), any new/planned driveway, within any municipality, which is to cross
a sidewalk or curb within any street or road right-of-way, the property owner
or developer is required to obtain written permission for such development from
the appropriate legislative body, or its delegated authority, prior to
initiating the driveway improvement. All such improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   The driveway design must provide for the lowering of the street
curb to be level with the street surface;
      (2)   The driveway surface must be structured to be level with the
existing sidewalk;
      (3)   An asphalt or concrete surface must be provided for any portion of
the driveway within the road right-of-way; and
      (4)   The driveway concrete or asphalt thickness must be a minimum of
three and one-half inches at all points of the driveway.
   (D)   Upon the application being granted, the applicant shall file his or
her written undertaking with the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, with approved
surety thereon, on the condition: that he or she will perform the work
promptly, skillfully and carefully; that he or she will restore the street,
curb or alley to as good condition as it was before the work was performed; and
that he or she will pay all damages that may result or be sustained by the
town, directly or indirectly, by reason of any fault or neglect on his or her
part.
   (E)   When the application has been filed and approved, there shall be
issued to the applicant a permit signed by the Street Department
Superintendent, the President of the Town Council, and the Clerk-Treasurer,
which permit shall specify the time the person may use the street or alley for
the purpose stated in the application.
   (F)   All off-street driveways and parking areas shall have a curb cut
access built to town specifications as set forth by the Street Department
Superintendent from time to time.
   (G)   In case anyone to whom a permit is issued, as provided for in this
section, shall fail to discharge all of the conditions of the undertaking
within ten days from the date fixed for the completion of the work authorized
by the permit, the undertaking shall be, by the Town Council, declared
forfeited and suit may be brought thereon in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(1998 Code, § 13-1) (Ord. 2016-16, passed 11-15-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   Snow removal conditions.
      (1)   When, in the opinion of the Town Street Department Superintendent,
or his or her appointed agent, the actual or expected precipitation of snow
will create hazardous or dangerous roadway conditions for vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, the Town Street Department Superintendent, or his or her
appointed agent, shall have the authority to declare a snow removal condition.
      (2)   A snow removal condition shall be declared by the Town Street
Department Superintendent, or by his or her appointed agent, by issuing a media
release to the local radio and cable television stations and by posting notice
in the Town Hall.
      (3)   The snow removal condition shall continue in force and effect until
the Town Street Department Superintendent, or his or her appointed agent,
declares it to be over by issuing a media release to the local radio and cable
television stations or all streets have had the snow and ice removed from curb
line to curb line.
   (B)   Parking restrictions during snow removal periods.
      (1)   When a snow removal condition has been declared, the following
traffic regulations will be in effect for all streets located within the town.
         (a)   All regular parking restrictions will remain in force, such as
two-hour parking limits and all no-parking areas.
         (b)   On all streets designated and marked as snow routes, no parking
will be allowed on the side of the street marked with the snow route signs.
         (c)   No parking will be allowed on Market Street between 3rd Street
and 5th Street and no parking will be allowed on 4th Street between Railroad
Street and Arch Street.
         (d)   These restrictions will remain in force until the snow removal
condition has been declared over or the snow has been removed from curb to curb
for the entire length of the street.
      (2)   Any vehicle parked, stalled, incapable of moving under its own
power or left unattended on any street in violation of division (B)(1) above
shall be ticketed, towed or impounded.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Town Street Department, the Town Marshal’s office and the
County Sheriff’s Department are hereby authorized to remove or have removed a
vehicle from a street to the nearest garage or other place (including another
place on a street) or to a garage designated or maintained pursuant to a
contract with the town when:
         (a)   The vehicle is parked or stalled on a street that is declared a
snow route and is in violation of division (B) above;
         (b)   A snow removal condition has been declared; and/or
         (c)   The vehicle is interfering or about to interfere with snow
removal operations.
      (2)   In the event that it is deemed by any law enforcement officer that
a vehicle shall be towed for the purpose of storage, he or she shall order the
vehicle towed immediately in accordance with the provisions of this section.
The Town Marshal or the Town Street Department shall have the authority to
enter into a service contract with a wrecker services for the purpose of towing
vehicles during the period of snow removal condition operations. Vehicles shall
be towed to any approved storage lot owned by a wrecker service or vehicle
dealership. In the event that there is no space available on a lot, the vehicle
shall be stored at a site designated by the law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Whenever a vehicle has been removed from a street as authorized in
this section and the appropriate agency is able to ascertain from the
registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner thereof,
the agency shall, as soon as possible, give or cause to be given notice in
writing to the owner of the fact of the removal and the reasons therefor and of
the manner in which the vehicle may be reclaimed. In this event, any notice
shall be given to the proprietor of the storage lot or garage.
      (4)   Whenever an officer removes or has removed a vehicle from a street
under this section and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of
the owner, or for any reason is unable to give notice to the owner as
hereinbefore provided, and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the
owner within a period of three days, then and, in that event, the officer shall
immediately send or cause to be sent a written report of the removal by mail to
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles and shall file a copy of the notice with the
proprietor of any storage lot or garage in which the vehicle may be stored.
      (5)   (a)   No person shall recover any vehicle removed in accordance
with this section, except as provided herein. Before the owner or person in
charge of the vehicle shall be allowed to recover it from the place where it
has been placed or impounded, he or she shall present to a member of the
appropriate law enforcement agency evidence of his or her identity and right to
possession of the vehicle and shall:
            1.   Sign a receipt for its return;
            2.   Pay the cost of removal;
            3.   Pay any cost of storage accrued for each additional day or
portion thereof thereafter; and
            4.   Obtain a receipt from the Town Clerk for the payment of the
fine listed in §
94.99.
         (b)   Until paid, these charges constitute a lien on the vehicle which
may be enforced in the same manner as a garage keeper’s lien in accordance with
the provisions of the applicable state statutes.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the appropriate law enforcement agency to
keep a record of each vehicle removed in accordance with this section. The
record shall include:
         (a)   A description of the vehicle;
         (b)   Its license number;
         (c)   The date and time of its removal;
         (d)   Location from where it was removed;
         (e)   Its present location;
         (f)   The name and address of its owner and last operator, if known;
         (g)   Its final disposition; and
         (h)   The parking violation involved.
   (D)   Owner/occupant to remove snow. The owner or occupant of any lot or
parcel of land lying within the town shall keep the sidewalks of the lot or
parcel of land clean at all seasons of the year. In addition, after any fall of
snow measuring two or more inches deep the owner/occupant shall remove the snow
or cause it to be removed from the sidewalk within 48 hours after the snow has
fallen.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 10-2-2007) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the terms of §
94.02 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 13-2)
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of §
94.03 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 13-1)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates §
94.04 shall be fined not less than $25 for each offense or more than $50 for
any single offense. Each day that the violation remains shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (2)   Civil penalties for violation(s) of §
94.04 shall be payable through the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office located in the
town within 30 days from the date of violation.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 10-2-2007)
CHAPTER 95: TREES
Section
   
95.01   Dead trees
   
95.02   Maintenance of trees
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEAD TREES.
   (A)   All dead trees within the town are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance, offensive to the sight and a peril to the safety of the life and
property of the residents of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, suffer or permit any
dead tree to remain standing upon or in the street adjacent to any lot or
parcel of land owned or under the care, management or control of the person.
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify any person so owning or having
the care, management or control of any lot or parcel of land where the dead
tree is standing to remove the same within ten days from the date of receiving
the notice and in the event the same is not removed, the town will cause the
same to be removed at the expense of the person and the person shall be liable
for removal costs and any penalties incurred.
      (2)   The notice shall be served personally upon the person by the
Marshal or other employee of the town.
(1998 Code, § 15-1) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 MAINTENANCE OF TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having the care, management or
control of any tree growing along or upon the public streets, alleys or
sidewalks to allow, suffer or permit the branches of the tree to grow in a
manner as to interfere with the free use or public safety of any person upon
any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(1998 Code, § 15-2) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the terms of §
95.01 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 15-1)
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of §
95.02 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34 3-32-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 15-2)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Policy statement
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Unlawful practice
   
96.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
96.05   Discrimination in residential real estate related transactions
   
96.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
96.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
96.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
96.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
96.10   Exemptions
   
96.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 96.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Town of Monon to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 01-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-2).
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq. (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-3) .
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6 (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-4).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
96.04 through
96.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. A single individual (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of such
FAMILY being further defined in §
96.09.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or addictions to
a controlled substance as defined in § 802 of Title 21 of the United States
Code (910 IAC 2-3-2(14)); nor does HANDICAP include an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite (910 IAC 2-3-2(14)).
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases
under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and fiduciaries (see I.C.
22-9.5-2-1.1).
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant (see I.C.
22-9.5-2-13).
(Ord. 01-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 96.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
96.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
96.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
96.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
96.04( C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 01-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 96.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
96.03 and except as exempted by §
96.03(B) and §
96.10, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person;
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person; and
   (H)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1") suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (H)(3)(c)3.
      (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 01-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 96.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate; or
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 01-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 96.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 01-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 96.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
96.03 through
96.06.
(Ord. 01-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 96.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 01-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 96.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 01-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 96.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, "housing for
older persons" means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program); or
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 01-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
§ 96.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
Town of Monon, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Town of Monon,
Indiana, because of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully
administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this
chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the
sections of this chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission
for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief
elected official of the Town of Monon, Indiana, shall refer all said complaints
to the Commission as provided for under division (A) above to said Commission
for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided
for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the Town of Monon, Indiana
shall administer their departments, programs and activities relating to housing
and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission
to further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the Town of Monon, Indiana, or the chief
elected official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to
any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 01-2016, passed 3-1-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Liquor retailer’s permit
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic or spirituous beverages without first obtaining a liquor retailer’s
permit
   (B)   The consent of the town be and is hereby given and granted unto the
proper legal authorities of the state to issue liquor retailer’s permits for
the sale of alcoholic or spirituous beverages agreeable to the provisions of
I.C. 7.1, as amended.
(1998 Code, § 1-1) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the terms of §
110.01 shall be fined or punished according to the applicable laws as defined
by state law, I.C. 7.1 et seq.
(1998 Code, § 1-1)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Prohibited activity
   
111.02   Application
   
111.03   License fee
   
111.04   Compliance
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Loitering, see
Ch. 131
§ 111.01 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon a private residence or
business in the town, not having been requested or invited to do so by the
owner or occupant of the residence or business, for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and/or disposing of and/or
peddling or hawking the same, unless the person shall first obtain and have on
his or her person a transient merchant’s license issued by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1998 Code, § 11-1) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the sale or soliciting of
orders for the sale of vegetables, fruit and other farm and garden products so
far as the sale of the commodities are now authorized by law.
(1998 Code, § 11-1)
§ 111.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The charge for the transient merchant’s license shall be an amount, as set
by Town Council from time to time, per day and the license shall be good and
effective only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., local time.
(1998 Code, § 11-1)
§ 111.04 COMPLIANCE.
   No provision of this chapter shall, in any way, limit or relieve a person
from complying with the obligations, requirements and restrictions imposed by
state law, I.C. 25-37-1-1 et seq., as amended, regarding transient merchants.
(1998 Code, § 11-1)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the terms of this chapter commits a class C infraction
as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as amended.
(1998 Code, § 11-1)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   LOITERING
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of firearms
   
130.02   Indecent behavior
   
130.03   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm in the
town; except that, this restriction shall not apply to any police officer
engaged in the lawful execution of his or her duties.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or person standing in the place of
a parent to knowingly permit his or her child or ward under the age of 18 years
to violate the provisions of this section.
(1998 Code, § 6-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 INDECENT BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or exhibit profane, threatening,
vulgar, indecent, abusive or insulting language, conduct or behavior in or
about any public building, store or place of business or upon the streets,
alleys or sidewalks within the town so as to be audible or offensive, and which
language, conduct or behavior would tend reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or
resentment in others.
(1998 Code, § 9-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any child, under the age of 18 years, to be
found loitering upon the public streets or alleys within the town, other than
his or her places of residence, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
on any day of the week, except Saturday, when the curfew hours shall be 11:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m., excepting when accompanied by a parent or guardian or with
bonafide consent, knowledge or supervision of the parent or guardian.
(1998 Code, § 9-2)
   (B)   (1)   It is a defense to a violation under this section that the child
was emancipated:
         (a)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
         (b)   By virtue of having married; or
         (c)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction; at
the time that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation under this section that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
         (a)   Accompanied by the child's parent, guardian, or custodian;
         (b)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child's parent,
guardian, or custodian;
         (c)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
            1.   Lawful employment;
            2.   A school sanctioned activity;
            3.   A religious event;
            4.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
            5.   An activity involving the exercise of the child's rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, Section 31 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, or both,
such as freedom of speech and the right of assembly; or
            6.   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults;
            7.   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child's parent, guardian, or custodian; or
            8.   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside Indiana to another location outside Indiana.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the terms of §
130.01 commits a class B misdemeanor as defined by state law, I.C. 35-50-3-3,
as amended.
(1998 Code, § 6-1)
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of §
130.02 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 9-4)
   (D)   Any person violating the terms of §
130.03 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 9-2)
CHAPTER 131: LOITERING
Section
   
131.01   Prohibited behavior
   
131.02   Definitions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter or lounge upon public
property, except parks, within the town during open hours.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sleep upon streets or public
property, unless the person is in a motor vehicle.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or loiter in or upon a
driveway of any building, or sit upon the steps, window sills or railing of any
building in a manner as to obstruct the ingress and egress to and from the
building or to the annoyance of the owner or occupant thereof, or the business
in case of a public building.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand, loiter or assemble on
any public sidewalks, streets or ways so as to impede or obstruct the free
passage or flow of pedestrian traffic thereon or to interfere with the use
thereof.
(1998 Code, § 9-3) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOITER.
      (1)   The obstruction of free and unhampered passage of pedestrians or
vehicles on the public streets, sidewalks and public places within the town;
      (2)   Interfering with any person lawfully on the premises by obstructing
passage; and/or
      (3)   Refusing to move on when so requested by a peace officer when the
peace officer reasonably makes the request to preserve or to promote public
peace and order.
   LOUNGE.
      (1)   To sit or lie down in any place not upon a chair, bench, seat or
other place provided for sitting or lying down; or
      (2)   To sit or lie down in any place on public property provided for
waiting when the person so sitting or lying down is not legitimately waiting
for the person or service for which the place is provided.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Land or property that is open to access by the public,
whether publicly or privately owned.
(1998 Code, § 9-3)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the terms of this chapter commits a class C infraction
as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as amended.
(1998 Code, § 9-3)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Enclosures around water
   
150.02   Building regulations inspection
   
150.03   Numbering of structures adjacent to streets
   
150.04   Area Plan Commission inclusion
   
150.05   Construction in flood plain
   
150.06   Mobile homes
   
150.07   Contracts in lieu of annexation
   
150.08   Control of display signs
   
150.09   Flood hazard areas
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ENCLOSURES AROUND WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, own or possess a swimming
pool, wading pool, hot tub, Jacuzzi, fish pond or any other artificial
depression in the land of any nature whatsoever, erected, constructed or
maintained from and after the effective date of this section, unless it is
enclosed by a good and sufficient fence and gate of at least four feet in
height, with the gate to be securely fastened by means of a lock.
(1998 Code, § 2-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 BUILDING REGULATIONS INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner of the county is the single agency
designated to administer building rules and inspection within the boundaries of
the units of government which are parties hereto.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner of the county is authorized and empowered to
issue building permits, make inspections, order corrections of violations,
issue certificates of occupancy and to perform other ministerial duties as are
commonly performed in the execution of his or her office, on behalf of the
parties hereto.
   (C)   Any appeal to a decision by the Building Commissioner of the county
shall lie first with the county executive, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, and to
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, as provided for in I.C. 4-
21.5.
   (D)   Fees that are collected by the Building Commissioner of the county
shall be accounted for and deposited in the General Fund of the county and
shall be considered payment for inspection services provided by his or her
office on behalf of the parties hereto.
(Res. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 150.03 NUMBERING OF STRUCTURES ADJACENT TO STREETS.
   (A)   All houses, buildings and structures in the town shall be numbered in
accordance with the following plan.
      (1)   Numbers shall reflect the official address recognized by the town
and the 911 emergency system.
      (2)   The owner shall be responsible for placing the numbers on the
house, building or structure, which numbers shall be a minimum of three inches
in height and shall contrast with the background upon which they are placed.
      (3)   If the house, building or structure is more than 75 feet from the
street, then the number shall be attached to a fixture near the street.
      (4)   Residential numbers may be attached to a rural mailbox post;
provided, the post is on the same side of the street as the property and only
one mailbox is present.
      (5)   If the building or structure is a business, the number must be
affixed to the building in a clearly visible location.
      (6)   Each unit of a multi-family dwelling shall be addressed separately.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a chart or log showing the proper
street number of every house, building or structure in the town.
(1998 Code, § 13-5) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 AREA PLAN COMMISSION INCLUSION.
   (A)   It is the declared intention of the Town Council to avail itself to
the provisions of I.C. Title 36, Art. 7, as amended, Indiana General Assembly,
and to participate in the operation of the Area Planning Department after it is
established, pursuant to § 6 of the Act.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby adopts the provisions of I.C. Title 36, Art.
7, as amended, Indiana General Assembly.
   (C)   The membership of the Area Plan Commission of the county shall be as
set forth in Article 7, Chapter 4, 100 through 1513.
(1998 Code, § 18-1)
§ 150.05 CONSTRUCTION IN FLOOD PLAIN.
   The construction of any structure, either aboveground or underground, and
within the flood plain of the Little Monon Creek in the corporate limits of the
town, the flood plain, being that as defined from time to time by the State
Department of Natural Resources, is hereby prohibited in order to comply with
the terms and provisions of Executive Order Number 11988.
(1998 Code, § 18-2) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Definition.  MOBILE DWELLING UNIT shall mean living quarters, such as
mobile homes, motor homes, travel trailers, campers, truck bodies, railroad
cars, shacks, and improvised shelters which may be moved by tractor, truck, or
automobile, or can be carried, transported, or towed from one place to another
without the use of regular house-moving equipment. Use for such living quarters
shall include the acts of sleeping, preparation of meals, sanitary measures
such as bathing, dishwashing, or laundering clothes, or any natural or
performed operation which involves waste material objectionable from a nuisance
standpoint.
   (B)   Permitted. Mobile dwelling units will be permitted to be used only in
mobile home courts approved by the Indiana State Board of Health, and except as
otherwise stipulated in the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Temporary living quarters. One motor home or travel trailer or camper,
as distinguished from other mobile dwelling units defined herein, may be
temporarily parked on a residential lot and occupied by the motor home's owner
and the owner's family for the purpose of using the same as a temporary living
quarters for a period not to exceed 30 days, after which such unit must be
moved to a mobile home park approved by the Indiana State Board of Health. In
all cases, such units must conform to the prescribed set-back requirements for
accessory buildings.
   (D)   Wheel removal. Removal of the wheels of a trailer, except temporarily
for repair, or the permanent blocking-up of a trailer, whether situated in a
camp or elsewhere, shall not be construed to convert the trailer into a
permanent place of abode.
   (E)   Storage. Travel trailers, motor homes, campers, or camper bodies may
be stored on an owner's property during periods of non-use only if such are
stored off the street and in an inconspicuous location.
   (F)   Replacing mobile dwelling unit. If a mobile dwelling unit in existence
and situated on lots within the town as of the date of passage, October 17,
2006, of the ordinance codified in this division, is destroyed by fire or other
act of God or calamity, or is dilapidated and in disrepair, it may be replaced
on the same lot, provided set-back requirements of the White County Area Plan
Commission are satisfied. All mobile dwellings now legally in place on lots in
the town, not to exceed two such units per lot, shall be deemed not in
violation of this section. If a mobile dwelling unit is removed from its
location on or after the date of adoption of this section and not replaced
within one year, or if not replaced or repaired after a fire or other act of
God or calamity, for a period of one year, then the location and lot shall no
longer be eligible to have a mobile dwelling unit thereon, and replacement,
repair, or installation of a mobile dwelling unit shall be a violation of this
section. No replacement mobile home or mobile dwelling unit may be greater than
ten years of age from date of original construction of the mobile home or
mobile dwelling unit.
   (G)   Corporate limits of town. From and after the date of the ordinance
codified herein, new or used mobile dwelling units may not be installed on a
lot located within the corporate limits of the town.
(1998 Code, § 18-2) (Ord. 18-3, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 150.07 CONTRACTS IN LIEU OF ANNEXATION.
   (A)   In lieu of annexing contiguous territory or in cases not involving
annexation, the executive and the proper administrative agency of a
municipality, with the consent of the Town Council, may enter into contracts
with the owners or lessees of designated property in the vicinity of the
municipality, providing for the payment or contribution of money to the
municipality for the payment or contribution of money to the municipality for
municipal or public purposes specified in the contract. The payments under the
contract may be:
      (1)   Related to or in consideration of municipal services or benefits
received or to be received by the property owners or lessees;
      (2)   In lieu of taxes that might be levied on annexation of the
designated property; and/or
      (3)   Wholly unrelated to municipal services or benefits to or potential
tax imposition on the designated property.
   (B)   Any other political subdivision that has taxing power in respect to
the designated property or is entitled to share in the property taxes assessed
and collected by the municipality may:
      (1)   Join in a contract under this section; and/or
      (2)   Enter into a separate agreement with the municipality, providing
for the division and distribution of contract payments made under this section
and for the receipt of a share of those payments by the municipal authority.
   (C)   A contract under this section may be entered into for the term agreed
to by the municipality and the property owners or lessees, but that term may
not exceed 15 continuous years under one contract.
   (D)   A contract under this section continues in effect for its full term
unless it is:
      (1)   Induced by fraud of the property owners or lessees;
      (2)   Grossly and corruptly improvident on the part of the municipality;
and/or
      (3)   Terminated or reduced in duration by agreement of the municipality
and the property owners or lessees.
   (E)   A contract under this section may provide that during its effective
term, the designated property of the contracting owners or lessees is not
subject to annexation by the municipality.
(1998 Code, § 18-4)
§ 150.08 CONTROL OF DISPLAY SIGNS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall have the power and authority to regulate and
control the display of signs and notices within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (B)   Residents of the town, whether real property owners or tenants, shall
be entitled to advertise any temporary sale of personal or household items or
goods, commonly known as a garage sale or porch sale, by placement of not more
than two signs within the boundaries of the lot or parcel of ground upon which
the sale is or will be held, and the signs not to exceed 24 inches by 24 inches
in size, to be unlighted and to be displayed for a period of time not to exceed
72 hours.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any sign, notice or
advertisement in a manner as to obstruct or block the view of any vehicular
traffic in streets and alleys and, thereby, cause a hazard or threat to public
or private safety.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place a sign, notice or
advertisement for the sale of goods or services therein, in front of any
residence, unless the Town Council shall first have approved the use of the
sign or the use of the residence is not inconsistent with the provisions of the
county’s zoning ordinance.
   (E)   (1)   The use of mobile, lighted arrow signs in predominantly
residential areas of the town on a temporary basis is hereby restricted to 12
consecutive hours and the sign shall not be lighted after 9:00 p.m.
      (2)   The signs shall, in no event, be used permanently in any
residential district.
(1998 Code, § 18-5) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The Town of Monon does hereby indicate its intention to participate
(or maintain participation) in the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   The Town of Monon does hereby adopt by reference the provisions of
White County Ord. 13-09-16-01 and does designate the White County Plan
Commission as its planning and zoning agency for all issues concerning building
and improvements in flood hazard areas.
   (C)   The Town Clerk of Monon, Indiana shall maintain a copy of Ord. 05-
2013, together with White County Ord. 13-09-16-01, in the manner town
ordinances are kept and available for public inspection.
(Ord. 05-2013, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the terms of §
150.01 commits a class C infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 2-1)
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of §
150.03, after receiving notice by the town, commits a class A infraction as
defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as amended.
(1998 Code, § 13-5)
   (D)   Any person violating the terms of §
151.06 commits a Class C infraction, as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4,
as amended. Each day a person is in violation shall constitute a separate
violation.
(1988 Code, § 18-3)
   (E)   Any person violating the terms of §
150.08 commits a class A infraction as defined by state law, I.C. 34-28-5-4, as
amended.
(1998 Code, § 18-5)
CHAPTER 151: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
151.01   Administration
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   General requirements
   
151.04   Light, ventilation and occupancy limitations
   
151.05   Plumbing facilities and fixture requirements
   
151.06   Mechanical and electrical requirements
   
151.07   Fire safety requirements
   
151.08   Referenced standards
   
151.09   Unsafe buildings
§ 151.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Title. These regulations shall be known as the “Property
Maintenance Code of The Town of Monon, Indiana”, hereinafter referred to as
“this code”.
      (2)   Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing
residential and non-residential structures and all existing premises and
constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures,
equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation,
protection from the elements, life safety, safety from fire and other hazards
and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners, operators
and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and premises; and for
administration, enforcement and penalties.
      (3)   Intent. This code shall be construed to secure its expressed
intent, which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as they
are affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and
premises. Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these
provisions shall be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health
and safety as required herein. Repairs, alterations, additions to and change of
occupancy in existing buildings shall comply with the International Existing
Building Code.
      (4)   Severability. If a section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of
this code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, the decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
(1998 Code, § 101)
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   General. The provisions of this code shall apply to all matters
affecting or relating to structures and premises, as set forth in division (A)
above. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this code specify
different requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
      (2)   Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by
this code or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or
premises was constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good
working order. No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service,
facility, equipment or utility which is required under this section to be
removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except
for a temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are in
progress. The requirements of this code are not intended to provide the basis
for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and devices in
existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner or the
owner’s designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings,
structures and premises.
      (3)   Existing remedies. The provisions in this code shall not be
construed to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its
officers or agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure
which is dangerous, unsafe and insanitary.
      (4)   Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or
installations which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of
this code shall be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed
in accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instructions.
      (5)   Historic buildings. The provisions of this code shall not be
mandatory for existing buildings or structures designated as historic buildings
when the buildings or structures are judged by the code official to be safe and
in the public interest of health, safety and welfare.
      (6)   Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced
in this code shall be those that are listed in §
151.08 and considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed
extent of each reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this
code and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
      (7)   Requirements not covered by code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure or
equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare not
specifically covered by this code shall be determined by the code official.
(1998 Code, § 102)
   (C)   Unsafe structures and equipment. When a structure or equipment is
found by the code official to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for
human occupancy, or is found unlawful, the structure shall be condemned
pursuant to the provisions of this code.
      (1)   Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because the structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of the
faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse
is possible.
      (2)   Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that the equipment is a hazard to life,
health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
      (3)   Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the code official finds that the structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential equipment required by this code, or because the
location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
      (4)   Unlawful structure. An “unlawful structure” is one found in whole
or in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this code, or
was erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
(1998 Code, § 103)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms
shall, for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
      (2)   Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the
future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
      (3)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this
code and are defined in the International Building Code, International Fire
Code, International Zoning Code, International Plumbing Code, International
Mechanical Code, International Existing Building Code or the ICC Electrical
Code, the terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
      (4)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, the terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
      (5)   Parts. Whenever the words “dwelling unit”, “dwelling”, “premises”,
“building”, “rooming house”, “rooming unit”, “housekeeping unit” or “story” are
stated in this code, they shall be constructed as though they were followed by
the words “or any part thereof”.
(1998 Code, § 201)
   (B)   General definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPROVED. Approved by the code official.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
      BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or
shower.
      BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping
purposes.
      CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code or any duly authorized representative.
      CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      EASEMENT. The portion of land or property reserved for present or future
use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property.
The EASEMENT shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a lot or lots.
      EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining
property under the control of owners or operators of the premises.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating, trapping or
by any other approved pest elimination methods.
      GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at
or near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the
possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
      HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces and
similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.
      HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable
space equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating
which does not contain, within a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower.
      IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or
premises of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the
public streets for reasons including, but not limited to, being unlicensed,
wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair or incapable of being moved under
its own power.
      LABELED. Devices, equipment, appliances or materials to which has been
affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally
recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization
concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the
production of the above-labeled items and by whose label the manufacturer
attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards.
      LET FOR OCCUPANCY OR LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premise or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
      OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is
utilized or occupied.
      OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building or having
possession of a space within a building.
      OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window, skylight or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
      OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of the person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting
as a unit.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way,
including any structures thereon.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
      ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or
without meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family
dwelling.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage;
the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
      STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited or
failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
      TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
      TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal, but not a
bathtub or shower.
      VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned
or unconditioned air to, or removing the air from, any space.
      WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner (e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work).
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(1998 Code, § 202)
§ 151.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures,
equipment and exterior property.
      (2)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the
structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except
as otherwise provided for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner-
occupant or permit another person to occupy premises which are not in a
sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply with the requirements of
this chapter. Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit
are responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part
of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises which they
occupy and control.
      (3)   Vacant structures and land. All vacant structures and premises
thereof or vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and
sanitary condition as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or
adversely affect the public health or safety.
(1998 Code, § 301)
   (B)   Exterior property areas.
      (1)   Sanitation. All exterior property and premises shall be maintained
in a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of
the exterior property which the occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      (2)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained
to prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant
water thereon, or within any structure located thereon. Exception: approved
retention areas and reservoirs.
      (3)   Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs,
driveways, parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of
repair and maintained free from hazardous conditions.
      (4)   Weeds. Weed and grass height shall be allowed to a height of up to
six inches. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from
weeds or plant growth in excess of six inches. All noxious weeds shall be
prohibited. WEEDS shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided; however, this term shall not
include cultivated flowers and gardens. Upon failure of the owner or agent
having charge of a property to cut and destroy weeds after service of a notice
violation, they shall be subject to prosecution. Upon failure to comply with
the notice of violation, any duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or
contractor hired by the jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the
property in violation and cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon and the
costs of the removal shall be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the
property.
      (5)   Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property shall be
kept free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they
shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be
injurious to human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be
taken to eliminate rodent harborage and prevent reinfestation.
      (6)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
      (7)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair.
      (8)   Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations, no
inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any
premises, and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly,
disrepair or in the process of being stripped or dismantled. Painting of
vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray booth.
Exception: a vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work; provided that, the work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for those purposes.
      (9)   Defacement of property. No person shall willfully or wantonly
damage, mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on
any private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or
graffiti. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore the surface to
an approved state of maintenance and repair.
(1998 Code, § 302)
   (C)   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs.
      (1)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition and in good repair.
      (2)   Enclosures. Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, containing
water more than 24 inches (610 mm) in depth shall be completely surrounded by a
fence or barrier at least 48 inches (1,219 mm) in height above the finished
ground level measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and
doors in the barriers shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-
latching device is less than 54 inches (1,372 mm) above the bottom of the gate,
the release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the gate. Self-
closing and self-latching gates shall be maintained such that the gate will
positively close and latch when released from an open position of six inches
(152 mm) from the gatepost. No existing pool enclosure shall be removed,
replaced or changed in a manner that reduces its effectiveness as a safety
barrier.
(1998 Code, § 303)
   (D)   Exterior structure.
      (1)   General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
      (2)   Protective treatment. All exterior surfaces, including but not
limited to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies,
decks and fences shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces,
other than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and
decay by painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking
and chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and
masonry joints as well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter
of windows, doors and skylights shall be maintained weather resistant and water
tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to
inhibit the rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be
stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains
shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
      (3)   Premises identification. Buildings shall have approved address
numbers placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street
or road fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their
background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters.
Numbers shall be a minimum of four inches (102 mm) high with a minimum stroke
width of one-half inch (12.7 mm).
      (4)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
      (5)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb
and free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in a condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
      (6)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks
and loose or rotting materials and maintained weather-proof and properly
surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
      (7)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
      (8)   Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra
cotta trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in
good repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
      (9)   Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions including, but not
limited to canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes
and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored
so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
      (10)   Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
      (11)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks
and similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound and
in good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from
the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-
coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
      (12)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
      (13)   Window, skylight and door frames. Every window, skylight, door and
frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather tight.
         (a)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from
cracks and holes.
         (b)   Openable windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall
be easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
      (14)   Insect screens. During the period from April 1 to November 1,
every door, window and other outside opening required for ventilation of
habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas or any areas where
products to be included or utilized in food for human consumption are
processed, manufactured, packaged or stored, shall be supplied with approved
tightly fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm)
and every swinging door shall have a self-closing device in good working
condition. Exception: screens shall not be required where other approved means,
such as air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
      (15)   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units, rooming
units and guestrooms shall tightly secure the door. Locks on means of egress
doors shall be in accordance with §
151.07(B)(3).
      (16)   Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
      (17)   Guards for basement windows. Every basement window that is
openable shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
      (18)   Building security. Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units,
room units or housekeeping units shall be provided with devices designed to
provide security for the occupants and property within.
         (a)   Doors. Doors providing access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit
or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a
deadbolt lock meeting specifications set forth herein. The deadbolt locks shall
be operated only by the turning of a knob or a key and shall have a lock throw
of not less than one inch. For the purpose of this section, a sliding bolt
shall not be considered an acceptable deadbolt lock. The deadbolt locks shall
be installed according to manufacturer’s specifications and maintained in good
working order. All deadbolt locks required by this section shall be designed
and installed in a manner so as to be operable inside of the dwelling unit,
rooming unit or housekeeping unit without the use of a key, tool, combination
thereof or any other special knowledge or effort.
         (b)   Windows. Operable windows located in whole or in part within six
feet (1,828 mm) above ground level or a walking surface below that provide
access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented,
leased or let shall be equipped with a window sash locking device.
         (c)   Basement hatchways. Basement hatchways that provide access to a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let
shall be equipped with devices that secure the units from unauthorized entry.
(1998 Code, § 304)
   (E)   Interior structure.
      (1)   General. The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
Occupants shall keep that part of the structure which they occupy or control in
a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure containing a rooming
house, housekeeping units, a hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or
two or more non-residential occupancies shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary
condition, the shared or public areas of the structure and exterior property.
      (2)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained
structurally sound and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
      (3)   Interior surfaces. All interior surfaces, including windows and
doors, shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling,
chipping, flaking or abraded paint shall be repaired, removed or covered.
Cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood and other defective surface conditions
shall be corrected.
      (4)   Stairs and walking surfaces. Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony,
porch, deck or other walking surface shall be maintained in sound condition and
good repair.
      (5)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
      (6)   Interior doors. Every interior door shall fit reasonably well
within its frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being
properly and securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the
manufacturer of the attachment hardware.
(1998 Code, § 305)
   (F)   Handrails and guardrails. Every exterior and interior flight of stairs
having more than four risers shall have a handrail on one side of the stair and
every open portion of a stair, landing, balcony, porch, deck, ramp or other
walking surface which is more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade
below shall have guards. Handrails shall not be less than 30 inches (762 mm)
high or more than 42 inches (1,067 mm) high measured vertically above the
nosing of the tread or above the finished floor of the landing or walking
surfaces. Guards shall not be less than 30 inches (762 mm) high above the floor
of the landing, balcony, porch, deck or ramp or other walking surface.
Exception: guards shall not be required where exempted by the adopted Building
Code.
(1998 Code, § 306)
   (G)   Rubbish and garbage.
      (1)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property and
premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any
accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
      (2)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing the rubbish in approved
containers.
         (a)   Rubbish storage facilities. The owner of every occupied premises
shall supply approved covered containers for rubbish and the owner of the
premises shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
         (b)   Refrigerators. Refrigerators and similar equipment not in
operation shall not be discarded, abandoned or stored on premises without first
removing the doors.
      (3)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing the garbage in an approved
garbage disposal facility or approved garbage containers.
         (a)   Garbage facilities. The owner of every dwelling shall supply one
of the following: an approved mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling
unit; an approved incinerator unit in the structure available to the occupants
in each dwelling unit; or an approved leakproof, covered, outside garbage
container.
         (b)   Containers. The operator of every establishment producing
garbage shall provide and, at all times, cause to be utilized, approved
leakproof containers provided with close-fitting covers for the storage of the
materials until removed from the premises for disposal.
(1998 Code, § 307)
   (H)   Extermination.
      (1)   Infestation. All structures shall be kept free from insect and
rodent infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are found shall
be promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
      (2)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
extermination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
      (3)   Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a
single-tenant non-residential structure shall be responsible for extermination
on the premises.
      (4)   Multiple occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a non-residential
structure shall be responsible for extermination in the public or shared areas
of the structure and exterior property. If infestation is caused by failure of
an occupant to prevent the infestation in the area occupied, the occupant shall
be responsible for extermination.
      (5)   Occupant. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for
the continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure. Exception: where
the infestations are caused by defects in the structure, the owner shall be
responsible for extermination.
(1998 Code, § 308) (Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-1-2008)
§ 151.04 LIGHT, VENTILATION AND OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying a
structure.
      (2)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain light, ventilation and space conditions in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant, or permit another
person to occupy, any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
      (3)   Alternative devices. In lieu of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, artificial light or mechanical ventilation
complying with the International Building Code shall be permitted.
(1998 Code, § 401)
   (B)   Light.
      (1)   Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one
window of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The
minimum total glazed area for every habitable space shall be 8% of the floor
area of the room. Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a window
of any room and the obstructions are located less than three feet (914 mm) from
the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, the
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a court and
shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window area
for the room. Exception: where natural light for rooms or spaces without
exterior glazing areas is provided through an adjoining room, the unobstructed
opening to the adjoining room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the
interior room or space, but not less than 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The
exterior glazing area shall be based on the total floor area being served.
      (2)   Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in
residential occupancies, other than in one- and two-family dwellings, shall be
lighted at all times with at least a 60-watt standard incandescent light bulb
for each 200 square feet (19 m2) of floor area or equivalent illumination;
provided that, the spacing between lights shall not be greater than 30 feet
(9,144 mm). In other than residential occupancies, means of egress, including
exterior means of egress stairways shall be illuminated at all times the
building space served by the means of egress is occupied with a minimum of one
footcandle (11 lux) at floors, landings and treads.
      (3)   Other spaces. All other spaces shall be provided with natural light
sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions and the safe
occupancy of the space and utilization of the appliances, equipment and
fixtures.
(1998 Code, § 402)
   (C)   Ventilation.
      (1)   Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one
openable window. The total openable area of the window in every room shall be
equal to at least 45% of the minimum glazed area required in division (B)(1)
above. Exception: where rooms and spaces without openings to the outdoors are
ventilated through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the adjoining
room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the interior room or space, but
not less than 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The ventilation openings to the
outdoors shall be based on a total floor area being ventilated.
      (2)   Bathrooms and toilet rooms. Every bathroom and toilet room shall
comply with the ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as required by
division (C)(1) above, except that a window shall not be required in the spaces
equipped with a mechanical ventilation system. Air exhausted by a mechanical
ventilation system from a bathroom or toilet room shall discharge to the
outdoors and shall not be recirculated.
      (3)   Cooking facilities. Unless approved through the certificate of
occupancy, cooking shall not be permitted in any rooming unit or dormitory unit
and a cooking facility or appliance shall not be permitted to be present in a
rooming unit or dormitory unit. Exception: where specifically approved in
writing by the code official.
      (4)   Process ventilation. Where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious
fumes, gases, dusts or mists are generated, a local exhaust ventilation system
shall be provided to remove the contaminating agent at the source. Air shall be
exhausted to the exterior and not be recirculated to any space.
      (5)   Clothes dryer exhaust. Clothes dryer exhaust systems shall be
independent of all other systems and shall be exhausted in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions.
(1998 Code, § 403)
   (D)   Occupancy limitations.
      (1)   Privacy. Dwelling units, hotel units, housekeeping units, rooming
units and dormitory units shall be arranged to provide privacy and be separate
from other adjoining spaces.
      (2)   Minimum room widths. A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall
not be less than seven feet (2,134 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens shall
have a clear passageway of not less than three feet (914 mm) between
counterfronts and appliances or counterfronts and walls.
      (3)   Minimum ceiling heights. Habitable spaces, hallways, corridors,
laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and habitable basement areas shall have
a clear ceiling height of not less than seven feet (2,134 mm). Exceptions:
         (a)   In one- and two-family dwellings, beams or girders spaced not
less than four feet (1,219 mm) on center and projecting not more than six
inches (152 mm) below the required ceiling height;
         (b)   Basement rooms in one-and two-family dwellings occupied
exclusively for laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a ceiling height
of not less than six feet, eight inches (2,033 mm) with not less than six feet,
four inches (1,932 mm) of clear height under beams, girders, ducts and similar
obstructions; and
         (c)   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar
purposes and having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a clear
ceiling height of at least seven feet (2,134 mm) over not less than one-third
of the required minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of the rooms,
only those portions of the floor area with a clear ceiling height of five feet
(1,524 mm) or more shall be included.
      (4)   Bedroom requirements. Every bedroom shall comply with the
requirements of divisions (D)(1) through (D)(5) herein.
         (a)   Area for sleeping purposes. Every bedroom occupied by one person
shall contain at least 70 square feet (6.5 m2) of floor area and every bedroom
occupied by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet (4.6 m2)
of floor area for each occupant thereof.
         (b)   Access from bedrooms. Bedrooms shall not constitute the only
means of access to other bedrooms or habitable spaces and shall not serve as
the only means of egress from other habitable spaces. Exception: units that
contain fewer than two bedrooms.
         (c)   Water closet accessibility. Every bedroom shall have access to
at least one water closet and one lavatory without passing through another
bedroom. Every bedroom in a dwelling unit shall have access to at least one
water closet and lavatory located in the same story as the bedroom or an
adjacent story.
         (d)   Prohibited occupancy. Kitchens and non-habitable spaces shall
not be used for sleeping purposes.
         (e)   Other requirements. Bedrooms shall comply with the applicable
provisions of this code including, but not limited to, the light, ventilation,
room area, ceiling height and room width requirements of this chapter; the
plumbing facilities and water-heating facilities requirements of §
151.05; the heating facilities and electrical receptacle requirements of §
151.06; and the smoke detector and emergency escape requirements of §
151.07.
      (5)   Overcrowding. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more
occupants than permitted by the minimum area requirements hereof.
 
Minimum Area Requirements
Space          Minimum Area in Square Feet
               1—2 occupants 3—5 occupant6 or more occupants
Living rooma,b No requirements 120           150
Dining rooma,b No requirements 80            100
Bedrooms       Shall comply with §
               151.04(C)
NOTES TO TABLE:
For SI: 1 square foot = 0.093m2
a - See §
151.04(D)(5)(b) for combined living room/dining room spaces.
b - See §
151.04(D)(5)(a) for limitations on determining the minimum occupancy area
for sleeping purposes.
 
         (a)   Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by the table
above shall not be included as a sleeping area in determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes. All sleeping areas shall comply with
division (D) above.
         (b)   Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room spaces
shall comply with the requirements of the table above if the total area is
equal to that required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to
function as a combination living room/dining room.
      (6)   Efficiency unit. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an
efficiency living unit from meeting the following requirements.
         (a)   A unit occupied by not more than two occupants shall have a
clear floor area of not less than 220 square feet (20.4 m2). A unit occupied by
three occupants shall have a clear floor area of not less than 320 square feet
(29.7 m2). These required areas shall be exclusive of the areas required by
divisions (D)(6)(b) and (D)(6)(c) below.
         (b)   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking
appliance and refrigeration facilities, each having a clear working space of
not less than 30 inches (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to
this code shall be provided.
         (c)   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a
water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
         (d)   The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
      (7)   Food preparation. All spaces to be occupied for food preparation
purposes shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve
foods in a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for
the sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for
temporary storage.
(1998 Code, § 404)
§ 151.05 PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
plumbing systems, facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
      (2)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain the plumbing facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any structure or premises which does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 501)
   (B)   Required facilities.
      (1)   Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub
or shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink which shall be maintained in
a sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same
room as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading
directly into the room in which the water closet is located. A kitchen sink
shall not be used as a substitute for the required lavatory.
      (2)   Rooming houses. At least one water closet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied for each four rooming units.
      (3)   Hotels. Where private water closets, lavatories and baths are not
provided, one water closet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower having
access from a public hallway shall be provided for each ten occupants.
      (4)   Employees’ facilities. A minimum of one water closet, one lavatory
and one drinking facility shall be available to employees. Drinking facilities
shall be a drinking fountain, water cooler, bottled water cooler or disposable
cups next to a sink or water dispenser. Drinking facilities shall not be
located in toilet rooms or bathrooms.
(1998 Code, § 502)
   (C)   Toilet rooms.
      (1)   Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall
not constitute the only passageway to a hall or other space or to the exterior.
A door and interior locking device shall be provided for all common or shared
bathrooms and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
      (2)   Location. Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, rooming
units or dormitory units or housekeeping units, shall have access by traversing
not more than one flight of stairs and shall have access from a common hall or
passageway.
      (3)   Location of employee toilet facilities. Toilet facilities shall
have access from within the employees’ working area. The required toilet
facilities shall be located not more than one story above or below the
employees’ working area and the path of travel to such facilities shall not
exceed a distance of 500 feet (152 m). Employee facilities shall either be
separate facilities or combined employee and public facilities. Exception:
facilities that are required for employees in storage structures or kiosks,
which are located in adjacent structures under the same ownership, lease or
control, shall not exceed a travel distance of 500 feet (152 m) from the
employees’ regular working area to the facilities.
      (4)   Floor surface. In other than dwelling units, every toilet room
floor shall be maintained to be a smooth, hard, non-absorbent surface to permit
the floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(1998 Code, § 503)
   (D)   Plumbing systems and fixtures.
      (1)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and
maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks
and defects and be capable of performing the function for which the plumbing
fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe,
sanitary and functional condition.
      (2)   Fixture clearances. Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate
clearances for usage and cleaning.
      (3)   Plumbing system hazards. Where it is found that a plumbing system
in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason
of inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross connection, back-siphonage,
improper installation, deterioration or damage or for similar reasons, the code
official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
(1998 Code, § 504)
   (E)   Water system.
      (1)   General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking
fountain, water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to
either a public water system or to an approved private water system. All
kitchen sinks, lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be
supplied with hot or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the
International Plumbing Code.
      (2)   Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination, and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the flood-level rim of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink
faucets and other hose bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in
place, shall be protected by an approved atmospheric-type vacuum breaker or an
approved permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
      (3)   Supply. The water supply system shall be installed and maintained
to provide a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in
sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function
properly, safely and free from defects and leaks.
      (4)   Water heating facilities. Water heating facilities shall be
properly installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate amount of
water to be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry
facility at a temperature of not less than 43°C. A gas-burning water heater
shall not be located in any bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or other occupied
room normally kept closed, unless adequate combustion air is provided. An
approved combination temperature and pressure-relief valve and relief valve
discharge pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water heaters.
(1998 Code, § 505)
   (F)   Sanitary drainage system.
      (1)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to
either a public sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
(1998 Code, § 506)
   (G)   Storm drainage. Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts
and other open areas on the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that
creates a public nuisance.
(1998 Code, § 507)
§ 151.06 MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
      (2)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with
these requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit
another person to occupy any premises which does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 601)
   (B)   Heating facilities.
      (1)   Facilities required. Heating facilities shall be provided in
structures as required by this section.
      (2)   Residential occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality indicated in Appendix D of the International
Plumbing Code. Cooking appliances shall not be used to provide space heating to
meet the requirements of this section. Exception: in areas where the average
monthly temperature is above 30°F (-1°C), a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C)
shall be maintained.
      (3)   Heat supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling unit, dormitory or guestroom on terms,
either expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall
supply heat during the period from November 1 to April 1 to maintain a
temperature of not less than 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
toilet rooms. Exceptions:
         (a)   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required; provided that, the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code; and
         (b)   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-
1°C), a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
      (4)   Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be
supplied with heat during the period from November 1 to April 1 to maintain a
temperature of not less than 65°F (18°C) during the period the spaces are
occupied. Exceptions:
         (a)   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions; and
         (b)   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous
physical activities.
      (5)   Room temperature measurement. The required room temperatures shall
be measured three feet (914 mm) above the floor near the center of the room and
two feet (610 mm) inward from the center of each exterior wall.
(1998 Code, § 602)
   (C)   Mechanical equipment.
      (1)   Mechanical appliances. All mechanical appliances, fireplaces, solid
fuel burning appliances, cooking appliances and water heating appliances shall
be properly installed and maintained in a safe working condition and shall be
capable of performing the intended function.
      (2)   Removal of combustion products. All fuel burning equipment and
appliances shall be connected to an approved chimney or vent. Exception: fuel
burning equipment and appliances which are labeled for unvented operation.
      (3)   Clearances. All required clearances to combustible materials shall
be maintained.
      (4)   Safety controls. All safety controls for fuel burning equipment
shall be maintained in effective operation.
      (5)   Combustion air. A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel
and for ventilation of the space containing the fuel burning equipment shall be
provided for the fuel burning equipment.
      (6)   Energy conservation devices. Devices intended to reduce fuel
consumption by attachment to a fuel burning appliance, to the fuel supply line
thereto or to the vent outlet or vent piping therefrom, shall not be installed
unless labeled for those purposes and the installation is specifically
approved.
(1998 Code, § 603)
   (D)   Electrical facilities.
      (1)   Facilities required. Every occupied building shall be provided with
an electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this section and
division (E) below.
      (2)   Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve
as a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance
with the ICC Electrical Code. Dwelling units shall be served by a three-wire,
120/240 volt, single-phase electrical service having a rating of not less than
60 amperes.
      (3)   Electrical system hazards. Where it is found that the electrical
system in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by
reason of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient receptacle and
lighting outlets, improper wiring or installation, deterioration or damage or
for similar reasons, the code official shall require the defects to be
corrected to eliminate the hazard.
(1998 Code, § 604)
   (E)   Electrical equipment.
      (1)   Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall
be properly installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
      (2)   Receptacles. Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain at
least two separate and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area shall
contain at least one grounded-type receptacle or a receptacle with a ground
fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain at least one
receptacle. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault circuit
interrupter protection.
      (3)   Lighting fixtures. Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet
room, kitchen, bathroom, laundry room, boiler room and furnace room shall
contain at least one electric lighting fixture.
(1998 Code, § 605)
   (F)   Elevators, escalators and dumbwaiters.
      (1)   General. Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be maintained
to sustain safely all imposed loads, to operate properly and to be free from
physical and fire hazards. The most current certificate of inspection shall be
on display at all times within the elevator or attached to the escalator or
dumbwaiter; or the certificate shall be available for public inspection in the
office of the building operator.
      (2)   Elevators. In buildings equipped with passenger elevators, at least
one elevator shall be maintained in operation at all times when the building is
occupied. Exception: buildings equipped with only one elevator shall be
permitted to have the elevator temporarily out of service for testing or
servicing.
(1998 Code, § 606)
   (G)   Duct systems. Duct systems shall be maintained free of obstructions
and shall be capable of performing the required function.
(1998 Code, § 607)
§ 151.07 FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior
premises, including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
      (2)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall provide and
maintain the fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
(1998 Code, § 701)
   (B)   Means of egress.
      (1)   General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall
be provided from any point in a building or structure to the public way. Means
of egress shall comply with the International Fire Code.
      (2)   Aisles. The required width of aisles in accordance with the
International Fire Code shall be unobstructed.
      (3)   Locked doors. All means of egress doors shall be readily openable
from the side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys,
special knowledge or effort, except where the door hardware conforms to that
permitted by the International Building Code.
      (4)   Emergency escape openings. Required emergency escape openings shall
be maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time of
construction, and the following. Required emergency escape and rescue openings
shall be operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys or
tools. Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed over
emergency escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear opening
size complies with the code that was in effect at the time of construction and
the devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use of
a key, tool or force greater than that which is required for normal operation
of the escape and rescue opening.
(1998 Code, § 702)
   (C)   Fire-resistance ratings.
      (1)   Fire-resistance-rated assemblies. The required fire-resistance-
rated walls, fire stops, shaft enclosures, partitions and floors shall be
maintained.
      (2)   Opening protectives. Required opening protectives shall be
maintained in an operative condition. All fire and smoke-stop doors shall be
maintained in operable condition. Fire doors and smoke barrier doors shall not
be blocked or obstructed or otherwise made inoperable.
(1998 Code, § 703)
   (D)   Fire protection systems.
      (1)   General. All systems, devices and equipment to detect a fire,
actuate an alarm or suppress or control a fire or any combination thereof shall
be maintained in an operable condition at all times in accordance with the
International Fire Code.
      (2)   Smoke alarms.
         (a)   Single or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed and
maintained in Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and in dwellings not regulated in Group R
occupancies, regardless of occupant load at all of the following locations:
            1.   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area
in the immediate vicinity of bedrooms;
            2.   In each room used for sleeping purposes; and
            3.   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements and
cellars, but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings
or dwelling units with split levels and without an intervening door between the
adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level.
         (b)   Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in
other groups in accordance with the International Fire Code.
      (3)   Power source. In Group R occupancies and in dwellings not regulated
as Group R occupancies, single-station smoke alarms shall receive their primary
power from the building wiring; provided that, the wiring is served from a
commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms
shall emit a signal when the batteries are low. Wiring shall be permanent and
without a disconnecting switch other than as required for overcurrent
protection. Exception: smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated
in buildings where no construction is taking place, buildings that are not
served from a commercial power source and in existing areas of buildings
undergoing alterations or repairs that do not result in the removal of interior
wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an attic,
crawl space or basement available which could provide access for building
wiring without the removal of interior finishes.
      (4)   Interconnection.
         (a)   Generally. Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be
installed within an individual dwelling unit in Group R-2, R-3, R-4 and in
dwellings not regulated as Group R occupancies, the smoke alarms shall be
interconnected in a manner that the activation of one alarm will activate all
of the alarms in the individual unit. The alarm shall be clearly audible in all
bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors closed.
         (b)   Exceptions.
            1.   Interconnection is not required in buildings which are not
undergoing alterations, repairs or construction of any kind; and
            2.   Smoke alarms in existing areas are not required to be
interconnected where alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of
interior wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an
attic, crawl space or basement available which could provide access for
interconnection without the removal of interior finishes.
(1998 Code, § 704)
§ 151.08 REFERENCED STANDARDS.
   This chapter lists the standards that are referenced in various sections of
this chapter. The standards are listed herein by the promulgating agency of the
standard, the standard identification, the effective date and title and the
section of sections of this document that reference the standard. The
application of the referenced standards shall be as specified in §
151.01(B)(7).
ICC   International Code Council
5203 Leesburg Pike
Suite 600
Falls Church, VA 22041
Standard Reference Number Title Referenced in Code Section Number
ICC   International Code Council
5203 Leesburg Pike
Suite 600
Falls Church, VA 22041
Standard Reference Title                                     Referenced in Code
Number                                                       Section Number
                   ICC Electrical Code™ — Administrative §§
ICC EC-03          Provisions                                151.02,
                                                             151.06
                                                             §§
IBC-03             International Building Code®             151.02,
                                                             151.04,
                                                             151.07
                                                             §§
IEBC-03            International Existing Building Code™   151.01,
                                                             151.02
                                                             §§
IFC-03             International Fire Code®                 151.02,
                                                             151.07
IMC—03           International Mechanical Code®           §
                                                             151.02
                                                             §§
IPC-03             International Plumbing Code®             151.02,
                                                             151.05,
                                                             151.06
                                                             §§
IZC--03            International Zoning Code®               151.01,
                                                             151.02
 
(1998 Code, Chapter 8)
§ 151.09 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. (unsafe building law), and
any modification made thereto in the future enacted by the Indiana State
Legislature and enforceable by law, to govern the maintenance of property to
protect the health, safety, welfare, and morals of the community and to
establish procedures for enforcing these codes
   (B)   The duly appointed Town Superintendent shall act s the executive
department responsible for the administration of this section.
   (C)   Pursuant to this section, the term SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST means
any right in real property that may be affected in a substantial way by actions
authorized by this section, including a fee interest, a life estate interest, a
future interest, a present possessory interest, or an equitable interest of a
contract purchaser.
   (D)   Should this section conflict with Ord. 9-1 in any means or fashion,
then the ordinance codifying this section, Ord 2005-02 (9-5) shall take
priority over rd. 9-1 and be controlling.
   (E)   The fines/fees for the Unsafe Building Ordinance as promulgated in
this section will be as follow $1,200 fee for normal cleanup, $60 per window
repair, $80 per lock change.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 2005-02.1, passed 10-4-2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
      
II.   VACATIONS AND CLOSINGS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   REZONINGS
TABLE I: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2006-02  8-1-2006    Designating, as an economic development target area, less
                     than 15% of the total geographic territory of the town
                    
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS AND CLOSINGS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating an alley lying between Lots 84 and 85 in the
–      - -         Turpies Addition to the town and Lots 64 and 65 in the
                     Addition
                        (1998 Code, § 13-4)
                     Vacating an alley running east and west in the Turpies
                     Addition to the town and consisting of a 20-foot right-of-
–      - -         way, bordered on the north by the south boundary line of
                     Lot 3 and on the south by the north boundary line of Lot 2
                        (1998 Code, § 13-4)
–      - -          
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
                Annexing certain property, containing approximately five and
                one-half acres:
                   (1) Tract 1 owned by Leslie Stevenson
         11-21-    (2) Tract 2 owned by Elizabeth Wilson and Eunice McCloud
R. –   2000      (3) Tract 3 owned by Elizabeth Wilson and Eunice McCloud
                   (4) Tract 4 owned by John E. Robinson
                   (5) Tract 5 owned by Jack A. Parker and Rose M. Parker
                   (6) Tract 6 owned by Steven James Lee and Charlene Lee
                   (1998 Code, § 18-5)
               
 
TABLE IV: REZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
R. –   4-6-2010       Rezoning eight properties from R-2 to B-2
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1998 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites             Code Section
1-1-1-5                10.04
1-1-1-7                10.12
1-1-1-8                10.06
1-1-4-5                10.05
1-1-5-1                10.11
1-1-6-1                10.08
3-10-7                 31.05
3-10-7-5.5             31.05
3-10-7-7(b)            31.05
4-21.5                 150.02
4-33-13-6              32.54
5-7-3-1                33.041
5-11-1-24              33.103
5-11-1-27(e)           33.103
5-11-1-27(g)           33.103
5-11-1-27(j)           33.104
5-11-9-4               33.038
5-11-10                32.01
5-16-9 et seq.         Ch. 73, Sch. I
5-22 et seq.           32.31
7.1                    110.01
7.1 et seq.            110.99
8-1.5-3-5              30.05
8-16-3                 32.45
8-22-3-25              32.45
9-19-5-1 et seq.       70.05
9-21-3-1 et seq.       70.01
9-21-4-19              70.01
9-21-16 et seq.        Ch. 73, Sch. I
14-16-1-23             71.03
14-27-6-48             32.45
14-33-14               32.45
16-23-1-40             32.45
22-9.5-1 et seq.       96.01
22-9-1-4 et seq.       96.02
22-9.5-2-1.1           96.02
22-9.5-2-2             96.02
22-9.5-2-3             96.02
22-9.5-2-4             96.02
22-9.5-2-8             96.02
22-9.5-2-9             96.02
22-9.5-2-13            96.02
22-9.5-3               96.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.       96.10
22-9.5-4-8             96.11
22-9.5-5               96.02
22-9.5-5-1             96.03
22-9.5-6               96.02;
                       96.11
22-11-14-1             91.03
25-37-1-1 et seq.      111.04
31-6-4-15.7            130.03
31-37-19-27            130.03
34-4-30.1-1            32.47
                       70.99;
                       71.99;
                       Ch. 72, Sch. I;
                       90.99;
                       93.99;
34-28-5-4              94.99;
                       95.99;
                       111.99;
                       130.99;
                       131.99;
                       150.99
35-47-2                71.03
35-50-3-3              92.99;
                       130.99
itle 36, Art. 7        150.04
36-1-3 et seq.         32.16
36-1-3-8(a)(6)         32.16
36-1-3-8(a)(10)        10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)(ii) 90.99
36-1-8 et seq.         32.56
36-1-20.2              33.028
36-4-3-7               50.44
36-5-2-5               31.01
36-7-8-9               150.02
36-7-9 et seq.         151.09
36-7-12-1              31.03
36-7-12-8              31.03
36-7-12-36             31.03
36-8-14                32.45
36-9-15.5-2            32.45
36-9-15.5-5 et seq.    32.45
36-9-16-2              32.45
36-9-16-3              32.45
36-9-16.5 et seq.      32.45
36-9-17 et seq.        32.45
36-9-26 et seq.        32.45
36-9-27-100            32.45
36-9-30-5              32.16
36-9-36-17             94.01
36-10-3                31.02
36-10-3 et seq.        31.02
36-10-3-21 et seq.     32.45
36-10-4-36             32.45
                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1998 CODE
1998 Code 2012 Code
1998 Code 2012 Code
1-1       110.01;
          110.99
2-1       150.01;
          150.99
3-1       90.01;
          90.99
3-2       90.02;
          90.99
4-1       32.46
4-2       32.53
4-3       32.04
4-4       32.52
4-5       32.51
4-6       32.50
4-7       32.03
4-8       31.03
4-9       30.04
4-10      32.02
4-11      30.03
4-13      32.45
4-15      32.47
4-16      32.48
4-17      32.31
4-18      32.30
5-1       91.02;
          91.99
6-1       130.01;
          130.99
7-1       92.03
7-2       92.02;
          92.99
7-3       91.01;
          91.99
8-1       70.05;
          70.99
8-2       70.03;
          70.99
8-3       70.01;
          70.99
8-4       Ch. 72, Sch. I
8-5       70.04;
          70.99
          71.01—
8-7       71.06;
          71.99
8-8       70.02
9-2       130.03;
          130.99
          131.01;
9-3       131.02;
          131.99
9-4       130.02;
          130.99
10-1      31.02
          93.01;
10-2      93.02;
          93.99
          111.01—
11-1      111.04;
          111.99
12-1      32.15
12-2      30.02
12-3      30.01
13-1      94.03;
          94.99
13-2      94.02;
          94.99
13-3      70.06;
          70.99
13-4      TSO Table II
13-5      150.03;
          150.99
14-3      31.04
14-4-3    50.18
15-1      95.01;
          95.99
15-2      95.02;
          95.99
16-2      31.01
17-1      50.01
17-3-1    50.15
17-3-3    50.16
17-3-4    50.17
17-3-5    50.40
17-3-6    50.41
17-3-7    50.60
17-3-8    50.61
17-4-1    50.19
17-4-2    50.20
17-4-4    50.21
17-4-5    50.22
17-4-6    50.23
17-4-7    50.24
17-4-8    50.25
17-4-9    50.02
17-4-10   50.03
17-4-11   50.62
17-4-12   50.99
17-5-1    50.26
17-5-2    50.26
17-5-3    50.63
17-5-4    50.64
17-5-5    50.99
17-6      50.42
17-7      34.02
17-8      50.43
17-9      50.65
18-1      150.04
18-2      150.05
18-3      150.06
18-4      150.07
18-5      150.08;
          150.99
18-15     TSO Table III
101       151.01
102       151.0
103       151.01
201       151.02
202       151.02
301       151.03
302       151.03
303       151.03
304       151.03
305       151.03
306       151.03
307       151.03
308       151.03
401       151.04
402       151.04
403       151.04
404       151.04
501       151.05
502       151.05
503       151.05
504       151.05
505       151.05
506       151.05
507       151.05
601       151.06
602       151.06
603       151.06
604       151.06
605       151.06
606       151.06
607       151.06
701       151.07
702       151.07
703       151.07
704       151.07
Ch. 8     151.08
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      11-21-2000  TSO Table III
–      3-12-2002   150.02
01-03    8-19-2003   32.54
07-03    8-7-2007    31.05
–      4-6-2010    TSO Table IV
2016-02  3-1-2016    32.05
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
–       - -         TSO Table II
–       - -         TSO Table II
9-1       - -         151.09
–       8-4-1998    92.03
–       11-7-2000   31.01
02-02     11-5-2002   31.01
2004-01   2-3-2004    32.49
–       11-2-2004   30.02
2005-02   6-21-2005   151.09
2005-02.5 10-4-2005   151.09
–       10-18-2005  50.42
2006-02   8-1-2006    TSO Table I
18-3      10-17-2006  150.06
                      94.01;
2007-05   10-2-2007   94.04;
                      94.99
2007-06   10-2-2007   91.03;
                      91.99
2007-07   10-2-2007   94.04
–       11-20-2007  92.01;
                      92.99
01-2008   5-6-2008    50.42
2008-02   6-3-2008    Ch. 73; Sch. I
03-2008   6-17-2008   50.44
2008-04   7-1-2008    151.03
07-2008   10-21-2008  50.45
–       2-3-2009    34.01
2009-05   7-21-2009   32.01
07-2009   9-15-2009   32.16
3-3       2-1-2011    90.03;
                      90.99
17-6.1    7-19-2011   50.42
4-9       12-6-2011   30.04
05-2013   9-17-2013   150.09
04-2014   6-24-2014   32.45
05-2014   6-3-2014    50.42
06-2014   10-7-2014   31.02
01-2016   3-1-2016    96.01—
                      96.11
2016-09   9-6-2016    Ch. 72; Sch. I
2016-11   9-20-2016   Ch. 73; Sch. I
2016-16   11-15-2016  94.03
                      71.01—
2018-01   3-21-2018   71.06;
                      71.99
2022-03   5-18-2022   32.55;
                      32.56
2022-07   7-20-2022   Ch. 73; Sch. I
08-2022   8-17-2022   92.03
2022-09   8-17-2022   32.06
                      33.001—
                      33.005,
                      33.020—
                      33.028,
                      33.035—
2022-13   12-21-2022  33.049,
                      33.060—
                      33.078,
                      33.090—
                      33.104,
                      33.115—
                      33.123
2023-01   3-15-2023   33.079
2023-02   4-19-2023   50.44
2023-03   4-19-2023   50.45
2023-07   8-15-2023   92.03
2023-13   12-5-2023   30.05
                     
 
 
