TOWN OF MONROVIA, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-26-2022
State legislation current through 2022 ALS Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinance which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the Monrovia
Code, for which designation Code of Ordinances, Codified Ordinances or Code may
be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between 2 or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to 3 or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving that authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Morgan County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Monrovia.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of the section are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) with respect to that section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   The inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
       
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
   
30.02   Creation of voting districts
   
30.03   Primaries for nominating candidates
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
§ 30.02 CREATION OF VOTING DISTRICTS.
   Voting districts 1 through 4 are created, as per the map attached to
Ordinance 11-2012, incorporated herein by reference. All residents of said
voting districts who are registered to vote shall be eligible to participate in
all municipal elections and the determination of municipal issues, effective on
December 17, 2012.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 30.03 PRIMARIES FOR NOMINATING CANDIDATES.
   The town hereby abolishes town conventions and replaces them with primaries
for the nomination of Democratic and Republican candidates.
(Ord. 08-2014, passed 12-22-2014)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
   
31.005   Election
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.015   Open meetings
   
31.016   Executive sessions
   
31.017   Notice of meetings
   
31.018   Agenda
   
31.019   Record of meetings
   
31.020   Quorum
   
31.021   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.035   Presiding officer
   
31.036   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.037   Absence of President
   
31.038   Duties of the President
   
31.039   Duties of Councilmembers
   
31.040   Seconding of motions required
   
31.041   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.042   Division of questions
   
31.043   Record of motions
   
31.044   Vote
   
31.045   Precedence of motion
   
31.046   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.047   Motion to adjourn
   
31.048   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.049   Motion to amend
   
31.050   Amendments
   
31.051   Reconsideration
   
31.052   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.053   Reports, communications, petitions, and the like
   
31.054   Adoption of Roberts Rules of Order, Revised
   
31.055   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.070   Majority vote; when required
   
31.071   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.072   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.073   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The terms for the elected offices for the town shall be as follows:
   (A)   Town Council members.
      (1)   Districts I, III and at-large will serve a two-year term beginning
with January 1, 2015, and will serve a four-year term beginning January 1,
2017, with four-year terms thereafter.
      (2)   Districts II and IV will serve a four-year term beginning with
January 1, 2015 and a four-year term thereafter.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected to serve a four-year term
beginning January 1, 2015, and will serve four-year terms thereafter.
(Ord. 5-2013, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town, but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district,
forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select 1 of its members to be its president for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office, as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
§ 31.005 ELECTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-5, the election of the 5 Town Council members shall
be by the voters of the whole town.
(Ord. 11-2005, passed 10-10-2005)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.015 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.016 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the following:
         (a)   Collective bargaining;
         (b)   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending or
has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this division,
“litigation” includes any judicial action or administrative law proceeding
under federal or state law;
         (c)   The implementation of security systems; and
         (d)   A real property transaction including:
            1.   A purchase;
            2.   A lease as lessor;
            3.   A lease as lessee;
            4.   A transfer;
            5.   An exchange; or
            6.   A sale;
            by the Town Council up to the time a contract or option is executed
by the parties. This clause does not affect a political subdivision’s duty to
comply with any other statute that governs the conduct of the real property
transaction, including I.C. 36-1-10 or I.C. 36-1-11.
         (e)   School consolidation.
      (3)   For the discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans, and systems.
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The Indiana Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)   The Office of Tourism Development (before July 1, 2020) or the
Indiana desination development corporation (after June 30,2020);
         (c)   The Indiana finance authority;
         (d)   The ports of Indiana;
         (e)   An economic development commission;
         (f)   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
         (g)   The Indiana White River state park development commission;
         (h)   A local economic development organization that is a nonprofit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in Indiana, the retention or expansion of
Indiana businesses, or the development of entrepreneurial activities in
Indiana; or
         (i)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
         However, this division does not apply to any discussions regarding
research that is prohibited under I.C. 16-34.5-1-2 or under any other law.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the governing body has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual's alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual's status as
an employee, a student, or an independent contractor who is a physician.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student's
abilities, past performance, behavior, and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This subdivision does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation, or
benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make 1 initial exclusion of prospective appointees from further
consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than 3 unless there are fewer than 3
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train school board members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials; and
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits, or registrations under I.C. 25.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   (1)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject
matter by specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which
executive sessions may be held under division (B).
      (2)   The requirements stated in §§
31.018 and
31.019 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given.
      (3)   The Town Council shall certify by a statement in the memoranda and
minutes of the Town Council that no subject matter was discussed in the
executive session other than the subject matter specified in the public notice.
   (E)   (1)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute.
      (2)   A meeting may not be recessed and reconvened with the intent of
circumventing this division.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.017 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time, and place of any meetings, executive
sessions, or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the
Town Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the
Town Council, or if no office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
§ 31.018 AGENDA.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of
the agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting.
      (2)   A rule, regulation, ordinance, or other final action adopted by
reference to agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.019 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
   (A)   The date, time, and place of the meeting;
   (B)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or absent;
   (C)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or decided;
   (D)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a roll
call; and
   (E)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-14-
1.5-3.6 or any other statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a
meeting using an electronic means of communication.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b))
§ 31.020 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.021 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   Whenever the Town Council has an even number of members for any
reason, the Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.035 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
§ 31.036 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.037 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent, but within or near the community, the
Clerk of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall
elect a Temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the
absence of the President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro
Tem shall be elected.
§ 31.038 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their rights to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Council members may
consider and pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair's failure to grant them
appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.039 DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than 5 minutes at any 1 time, except by
consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character,
or motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.040 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.041 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.042 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.043 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
name of the member moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.044 VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by Ayes and Nays, all debate on the question before the Council shall be deemed
concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted to
briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or her
name by the Clerk of Council by answering Aye or Nay, as the case may be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting Aye and those voting Nay.
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote, nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Council members is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution, or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council's vote and
those votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
§ 31.045 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.046 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.047 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.048 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.049 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.050 AMENDMENTS.
   Only 1 amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.051 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case, a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.052 VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person, other than a member of the Council, shall address that body, except
with the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.053 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS, AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting.
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.054 ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town including these rules, or the statutes of the state.
§ 31.055 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.070 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
§ 31.071 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a 2/3 vote means at least a 2/3 vote of all the
elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A 2/3 vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent of the
members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an ordinance of
the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which it is
introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new legislative
body districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.072 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order, or resolution passed by the legislative body is
considered adopted when it is signed by the executive. If required by statute,
an adopted ordinance, order, or resolution must be promulgated or published
before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-1,
unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
town legislative body members, if the town has abolished legislative body
districts under I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if a town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division, if authorized by the
legislative body, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F)) does not apply to a zoning
ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a
comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published:
         (a)   One time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1; and
         (b)   Not later than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the
legislative body in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Subject to division (J), the legislative body shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G), give written notice to the Department of
Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment or repeal of
an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment, or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the legislative body, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1).
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the legislative body must state the notice requirements of division (F).
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) apply only if the municipal
corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice that the
Department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred to in
division (F) as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the Department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4,
or I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.073 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency Required
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees of the Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.05   Office space for the Clerk-Treasurer
Town Marshal
   
32.15   Appointment; compensation
   
32.16   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.17   Powers and duties
   
32.18   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.19   Deputy Marshals; Humane Officer
Building Inspector
   
32.30   Creation; contract
Building Commissioner
   
32.45   Creation; appointment
Police Reserves
   
32.60   Creation of positions
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Article 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town. An individual who resides in
territory that is annexed by the town before the election is considered a
resident of the town for purposes of this section, even if the annexation took
effect less than one year before the election.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or
I.C. 3-10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or
(f) the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is 4 years, beginning at noon on
January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected and
qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6.5, the Clerk-Treasurer is both the
Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions, and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to a town that has adopted an
ordinance under I.C. 36-5-6.5.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
         (a)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only
on order of the Town Council;
         (b)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
         (c)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
         (d)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers, and employees
shall be paid;
         (e)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make
investments of town money;
         (f)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of
miscellaneous revenue, financial statements, and the proposed tax rate;
         (g)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
         (h)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees
fixed by ordinance;
         (i)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
         (j)   Administer oaths, take depositions, and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee; and
         (k)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES OF THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer's deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer's pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility's rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer's
pleasure.
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (C) shall be approved in the annual
budget.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05 OFFICE SPACE FOR THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.15 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix the Town
Marshal’s compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.16 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than 6 months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for city fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.17 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or the Marshal’s deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to the Marshal or deputy by the
Town Court or Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within the Marshal’s or deputy’s view, take them before a court having
jurisdiction, and detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been
investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to the Marshal’s or
deputy’s aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.18 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department, or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.19 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Town Council may, by ordinance, authorize the Town Marshal to
appoint up to two Deputy Marshals. Deputy Marshals have the powers and
liabilities of the Town Marshal in executing the orders of the Town Council or
enforcing laws. The Town Marshal’s and Deputies’ duties shall be to enforce the
laws of the state and the town from a violation of those laws, and to issue
warnings and/or citations for such violations.
   (B)   One Deputy Marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. He or
she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for city humane officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation, and term
of service of Deputy Marshals. The town shall take out and maintain the
appropriate insurance policies for such employees. The Town Marshal may dismiss
a Deputy Marshal at any time. However, a Deputy Marshal who has been employed
by the town for more than 6 months after completing the minimum basic training
requirements adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-
9 may be dismissed only if the procedure prescribed hereby is followed.
(Am. Ord. passed 5-27-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-5-7-6
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 32.30CREATION; CONTRACT.
   There is hereby created a position known as Monrovia Building Inspector.
That individual shall sign a contract with Monrovia governing his or her
duties, rights, and responsibilities prior to performing inspections for the
town of Monrovia.
(Ord. 8-1997, passed 5-12-1997)
BUILDING COMMISSIONER
§ 32.45CREATION; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created a position known as Monrovia Building Commissioner.
This position will be appointed by the Town Council with the recommendations of
the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 4-1998, passed 2-9-1998)
POLICE RESERVES
§ 32.60CREATION OF POSITIONS.
   Be it ordained by the Town Council of Monrovia, 6 positions for police
reserve officers are hereby created.
(Ord. 11-1998, passed 7-13-1998; Am. Ord. passed 5-27-2008)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.01   Appropriation required
   
33.02   Issue of warrants
   
33.03   Allowance of claims
   
33.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
33.07   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
33.20   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.21   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate and making annual
appropriations
   
33.22   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
Funds
   
33.35   Petty Cash Fund
   
33.36   Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund
   
33.37   Police Department Fee Fund
   
33.38   Police Donation Fund
   
33.39   Economic Development Income Tax Fund
   
33.40   Large Development Special Non-reverting Fund
Use of Credit Cards for Town Purchasing
   
33.55   Credit card use for purchasing
Internal Control Standards
   
33.70   Internal control policy adopted
   Appendix A: Internal Controls Policy
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.01 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 33.02 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits the town officer’s
office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 33.03 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
33.06, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least 5 days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits the town officer’s
office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 33.04 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.06, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the town fiscal officer;
      (3)   Certified by the fiscal officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the fiscal officer under division (B)(3) must be
on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 33.05 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to 3 days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or employee
begins, the town may pay the officer or employee the amount of compensation the
officer or employee will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 33.06 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if advance funding is not prohibited and the
contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council's
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12)
§ 33.07 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and I.C. 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1, the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2, or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2, to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer, and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 33.20 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following
manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates;
   (B)   The town fiscal officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments;
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
fiscal officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President's review and revision, the fiscal officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses, and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
§ 33.21 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE AND MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The town fiscal officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the fiscal officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 33.22 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
FUNDS
§ 33.35 PETTY CASH FUND.
   There is hereby created a petty cash fund in the amount of $100 which will
be maintained by a custodian appointed by the Town Council.
(Ord. 8-1998, passed 4-13-1998)
§ 33.36 LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTINUING EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   In this fund the $3 fee collected for all criminal, infraction and
ordinance convictions (judgments), will be placed. This money must be used
within the first full calendar year, or it will be transferred to the Law
Enforcement Training Fund, which is the fund that supports the Law Enforcement
Training Board and Academy.
   (B)   In this fund the fees collected from the Accident Reports, V.I.N.
Inspections and Handgun Licenses will be placed, as established by Ord. 7-1997.
   (C)   The money in this fund can be used by the Police Department for
training of officers, equipment or repairs for firearms, equipment for accident
prevention or investigation.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer will establish this fund within the General Fund
and all fees collected will be placed in this account.
(I.C. 33-37-8-4) (Ord. 6-1999, passed 8-23-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Funding of local law enforcement continuing education, see I.C. 33-37-8-
4 and 33-37-8-6
   Local law enforcement continuing education programs, see I.C. 5-2-8-2
§ 33.37 POLICE DEPARTMENT FEE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a service and copying fee of $5 for each
copy of an incident report and/or pictures requested by persons from the office
of the Town Marshal. The fees collected will be spent by the police department
to purchase equipment and/or anything deemed necessary for the operation of the
Monrovia Police Department.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish this account within the General
Fund and all fees collected will be credited to these accounts.
(Ord. 8-1999, passed 8-23-1999)
§ 33.38 POLICE DONATION FUND.
   (A)   Within this fund all monies donated to the Monrovia Police Department
will be credited.
   (B)   The Town Marshal can use this money for any operation for the Monrovia
Police Department.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer will set up a fund within the General Fund and all
money received will be credited to this account.
(Ord. 9-1999, passed 8-23-1999)
§ 33.39 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX FUND.
   (A)   A fund shall be established known as the Town of Monrovia Economic
Development Income Tax Fund, and the revenue received by the town from the
County Economic Development Income Tax shall be deposited into that fund.
   (B)   The revenue deposited into the Town of Monrovia Economic Development
Income Tax Fund, which results from the county's increase in the County
Economic Development Income Tax, shall be used, once it is appropriated to the
town, in accordance with Indiana law.
(Ord. 08-2004, passed 5-24-2004)
§ 33.40 LARGE DEVELOPMENT SPECIAL NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a non-reverting fund to be called the Large
Development Special Non-reverting Fund (LDSNF).
   (B)   The LDSNF shall be funded through revenues generated when developers
submit plan(s) to the Monrovia Planning Commission for preliminary approval
that includes at least 6 homes/apartments/dwelling units/businesses or
anticipate that such number of structures will be built (hereinafter referred
to as a “large project”).
   (C)   The town may require that the developer of such large project pay into
the fund the total amount of anticipated inspection fees based on the plans
submitted prior to any building permit being issued.
   (D)   All monies deposited into the LDSNF shall be used to pay inspection
and inspection- related costs.
   (E)   If, during the construction phase of such project, the amount of money
deposited into the fund is insufficient to cover the costs of the inspections,
the town agrees to provide 7 days notice to the developer of the need for
additional funds. The developer shall have 7 days to deposit such money into
the LDSNF, or a stop-work order may issue.
   (F)   If, at the conclusion of such construction, the developer has
deposited an excess of money into the LDSNF, the town agrees to remit to the
developer such money within 30 days of providing an occupancy certificate.
   (G)   At any time, the developer may request and the town agrees to provide
an accounting showing expenditures from the fund relating to the developer’s
large project.
   (H)   Upon termination of the LDSNF, any money remaining in the fund that
has not been returned to any specific developer(s) shall revert to the General
Fund.
(Ord. 3-2006, passed 12-11-2006)
USE OF CREDIT CARDS FOR TOWN PURCHASING
§ 33.55 CREDIT CARD USE FOR PURCHASING.
   This chapter is adopted in compliance with the State Board of Accounts
Accounting And Uniform Compliance Guidelines Manual for Cities and Towns,
Chapter 7, authorizing a town to use credit cards for purchases.
   (A)   Town officials may use town credit cards for purchases related to the
performance of town duties when such use is in the best interest of the town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to obtain credit cards for use by
the town.
   (C)   The designated users shall be responsible for the safekeeping of the
credit cards.
   (D)   The town credit cards shall be used only by the designate users. A
usage log shall be maintained in the Clerk-Treasurer's office with the
following information:
      (1)   The name and position of the individuals using the credit cards;
      (2)   The date the card is issued to the individual; and
      (3)   Upon return, the date the card is returned.
   (E)   The credit cards shall be used for purchases relating to the
performance of the town's business only. No personal use of the card is allowed
even though the user offers to reimburse the town.
   (F)   Payment of purchasing bills shall be subject to the audit requirements
of accounts payable vouchers in conformity with I.C. 5-11-10 and I.C. 36-4-
8 and the regulations of the State Board of Accounts. Credit card purchases may
not exceed $1,000 without prior Town Council approval. Instances of misuse;
i.e., fraud, scam, personal purchases, etc., will be immediately reported to
the Clerk Treasurer by the user or anyone having knowledge of the misuse. The
Clerk Treasurer will, in turn, immediately notify the Town Council.
   (G)   Credit card charges that do not meet audit requirements are the
responsibility of the user authorizing the charge. The town will take all
necessary steps to obtain reimbursement for charges which do not meet audit
requirements from the person authorizing the charge.
   (H)   Any interest or penalty incurred due to late filing with the Clerk-
Treasurer of an accounts payable voucher for payment of a credit card bill due
to delay in furnishing documentation required, that of an itemized charge,
shall be the responsibility of the user of that card.
   (I)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified immediately if a credit card is
lost or stolen. If a credit card is lost due to negligence of the user, the
user shall be responsible for any and all expenses incurred on the lost credit
card.
   (J)   The Town Council has the authority to revoke a credit card that has
been used in violation of town policy.
(Ord. 01-2011, passed 4-25-2011; Am. Ord. 01-2011, passed 2-22-2021)
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 33.70 INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Internal Control Policy attached hereto and
incorporated herein as Appendix A.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk/Treasurer is directed to ensure that the following
personnel (by position) receive training concerning the Internal Control
Procedures adopted and approved herein:
         (a)   Clerk Treasurer.
         (b)   Utility Clerk.
         (c)   Plan Administrator.
         (d)   Town Marshal.
         (e)   Town Council.
      (2)   At a minimum, Internal Control Training will include:
         (a)   A review and understanding of the Town Internal Control Policy.
         (b)   A review of the Internal Control Systems video presented by the
State Board of Accounts.
      (3)   Training completion will be documented utilizing the Internal
Control Training Certification for Elected Officials, Appointees, and Employees
form. Completed forms will be maintained by the Clerk Treasurer.
   (C)   The town hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $500 for purposes of
the Internal Control Procedures adopted and approved herein.
(Ord. 02-2016, passed - -2016; Am. Ord. 02-2016, Amd. No. 1, passed 1-25-2022)
APPENDIX A: INTERNAL CONTROLS POLICY
Internal Controls Policy Pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27
I.   Policy
The purpose of this policy is to communicate the Town Council's internal
control objectives to all employees and elected officials of the Town of
Monrovia and to firmly commit the Town to the seventeen (17) key principles of
internal control as established by the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
COMPONENT ONE: CONTROL ENVIRONMENT
Principle 1:   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values.
The Town has the responsibility to establish and maintain an adequate system of
internal control and to furnish to the Town Council, various boards and
commissions, governmental agencies, creditors and others reliable financial
information on a timely basis. An adequate system of internal control is
necessary for the Town to discharge these responsibilities.
Controls help ensure that assets are not exposed to unauthorized access and
use, transactions are properly recorded in the financial records and the
resultant financial information is reliable. External organizations and
stakeholders of the Town rely on financial information to make decisions toward
appropriations, loans and other debt, grants and other contractual
relationships. Town resources are dependent upon the system of internal
control. Auditors are required annually to report upon the adequacy of the
Town's systems for control over financial reporting and compliance per I.C. 5-
11-l-27. The safeguarding of Town assets and the reliability which the Town and
others can place upon its financial records is dependent upon the effectiveness
of the internal control process.
As the fiscal body, Town Council expects the Town administration to effect an
internal control environment with policies and procedures necessary to provide
reasonable assurance that practices cause effective and efficient operations,
reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and
regulations.
The system of internal control is meant to keep the Town on course toward its
mission and to minimize surprises. The system promotes efficiency, minimizes
risks of asset loss, helps ensure the reliability of financial information and
compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
Internal control is a process; a means to an end and not an end unto itself.
The control environment is the foundation upon which all components of internal
control are based. It sets the tone for Town operations. Internal control is
about people, operations, communications and the work environment. It is not
about policies and forms though it takes shape through the implementation of
relevant policies,
procedures and practices. Internal control can provide reasonable assurance but
no system of control can provide absolute assurance to the Town Council and
other users of financial information.
The Clerk-Treasurer shall be charged with:
   •   Conveying periodic messages of the Town's internal control philosophy
and expectations to all employees;
   •   Evaluating the Town's internal control system for weaknesses on a
periodic (but no less frequently than annual) basis, providing solutions to any
discovered weaknesses and inform employees of necessary changes in procedures;
   •   Working to establish a confidential reporting system for individuals to
report suspected fraud and abuse of internal control policies; and,
   •   Working to institute procedures to address violations of policies and
consequences for violations.
Principle 2:   The oversight body oversees the entity's internal control
system.
As the fiscal body for the Town, the Town Council is responsible for setting
the institutional expectations for internal control, ensuring management is
aware of those expectations, requiring the upward communications channels are
open through all levels of management and evaluating management's effectiveness
toward monitoring the control environment and implementing sound control
policies and procedures. As the Town's Chief Fiscal Officer, the Clerk-
Treasurer will be the Town Council's chief agent in implementing and managing
the internal control policies and procedures.
Principle 3: Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility and delegates authority to achieve the entity's objectives.
Individuals with delegated approval authority, e.g. Elected Officials and
Department Heads are responsible for establishing, maintaining and supporting a
system of internal controls within their areas of responsibility and for
creating the control environment that encourages compliance with Town policies
and procedures.
Adequate supervision is necessary to monitor that internal controls are
operating as intended and to help ensure the reliability of accounting and
operational controls by pointing out errors, omissions, exceptions and
inconsistencies in procedures. Staff in leadership rolls are responsible for
the application of this policy and the design, development, implementation and
maintenance of systems of internal controls focusing on the effectiveness of
operations and the safeguarding of assets within their respective areas of
responsibility. All levels of management and supervision are responsible for
strengthening internal controls when weaknesses are detected. Department
managers should periodically review departmental procedures to ensure that the
general principles of internal control are being followed.
The Clerk-Treasurer's Office has the primary responsibility for internal
control over financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws, rules and
regulations. The Clerk-Treasurer is the Town's chief source for information and
assistance to staff and Department Heads on this topic and will make resources
available to assist in administering this policy.
The Town Council is responsible for internal controls over employee
recruitment, hiring, separation, promotion, job classification, employee rights
and salary administration. The Clerk-Treasurer is the Town source for
information and assistance on this topic and will make resources available to
assist in administering this policy.
All levels of internal control are subject to examination by external auditors
who are required to report on the adequacy of internal controls over finance
and compliance.
Department Heads are responsible for prompt corrective action on all internal
control findings and recommendations made by internal and external auditors.
The audit process is completed only after Department Heads receive the audit
results and take action to correct internal control weaknesses, improve systems
or demonstrate that management action is not warranted. Department Heads have
the responsibility to ensure that those who report to them have adequate
knowledge, skills and abilities to function within, and contribute to, an
effective internal control environment. This includes providing access to
appropriate training on topics relevant to their job responsibilities.
Principle 4:   Management demonstrates a commitment to recruit, develop and
retain competent individuals.
The Town Employee Handbook provides a roadmap for recruiting and maintaining
quality employees. Prior to employment individuals may be subject to pre-
employment background screening and/or a credit history check. The Town will
continue to assess the best recruitment pools and tools for the different skill
sets of skills necessary to adequately implement and maintain quality internal
controls.
Job descriptions will be updated where necessary to reflect internal control
responsibilities and duties. Employees will be regularly trained in internal
control methods and all training will be documented in employees' personnel
files. Employees will be regularly evaluated by their supervisors on internal
control duties and receive feedback on possible improvements.
Principle 5:   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
Individuals are held accountable for their internal control responsibilities
through a recognized structure which includes relevant job descriptions,
operating procedures, periodic reviews, regular feedback and a progressive
disciplinary policy. Additional, Town Administration seeks to address issues in
specific departments and positions through regular one-on-ones with Department
Heads.
COMPONENT TWO: RISK ASSESSMENT
Principle 6:   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and risk tolerances.
Through the creation of standard operating procedures and accurate
organizational reporting charts management conveys and identifies objectives,
missions, policies and risk tolerances to employees. The Clerk-Treasurer and
Town Council will lead a risk analysis of three (3) major areas:
   1.   The effectiveness and efficiency of operations.
   2.   The reliability of reporting for internal and external use.
   3.   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
For each category, the Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council will define objectives
in specific measurable terms in order to enable the design of internal control
for related risk, increase understanding at all levels, assess performance,
identify what is to be achieved, who is to achieve it, how it will be achieved,
when it will be achieved and incorporate external requirements.
Principle 7:   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to risks related to
achieving the defined objectives.
The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council will identify, analyze and respond to the
risks identified in Principle 6 by determining:
   1.   How likely is the risk to occur?
   2.   How will it impact the objective?
   3.   Is the risk based on complex or unusual transactions?
   4.   Is the risk based on fraud?
Once each risk has been identified and analyzed, the Clerk-Treasurer and Town
Council will work with Department Heads to determine how to respond to each
risk with a specific solution and action.
Principle 8:   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing and responding to risks.
Management is committed to fraud prevention by utilizing a “trust but verify”
approach. The potential for fraud, misappropriation and outright theft are
contemplated as controls are designed for various Town divisions. Fraud
responses will include statutorily required responses to fraud, including, but
not limited to I.C. 5-11-1-27(1) relating to the Report of Misappropriation of
Funds to State Board of Accounts and Prosecuting Attorney and I.C. 5-11-1-27(j)
relating to the Report of Material Variances, Losses, Shortages or Thefts to
the State Board of Accounts. The Town shall utilize a materiality threshold of
Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00)
Principal 9:   Management identifies, analyzes and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system.
The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council, in coordination with Department Heads,
will regularly evaluate and adjust internal control policies in order to
accommodate for the impact of future changes, including but not limited to,
personnel changes, newly elected officials, new programs, new technology, new
laws and regulations, and financial fluctuations.
COMPONENT THREE: CONTROL ACTIVITIES
Principle 10: Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks.
The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council will establish and maintain a system of
internal controls that satisfies the Town's objectives in the following
categories:
   1.   Risks are identified and effectively managed.
   2.   Safeguarding of Town assets.
   3.   Reliability and integrity of financial information.
   4.   Compliance with Town policy, plans, procedures, laws and regulations.
   5.   Economical and efficient use of Town resources.
   6.   Meeting established objectives and goals for Town operations and
programs.
A.   General internal control principles for Departments are:
   1.   Separation of duties
      a.   Duties are separated so that one person's work routinely serves as a
check on another's work.
      b.   No one person has complete control over more than one key function
or activity (e.g. authorizing, approving, certifying, disbursing, receiving or
reconciling).
   2.   Authorization and approval
       a.   Proposed transactions are authorized when proper and consistent
with Town policy and the Department's plans.
      b.   Transactions are approved by the person who has delegated approval
authority, which is usually delegated on the basis of special competency or
knowledge.
   3.   Custodial and security arrangements
      a.   Responsibility for physical security/custody of Town assets is
separated from record keeping/accounting for those assets.
      b.   Unauthorized access to Town assets and institutional data is
prevented.
   4.   Timely and accurate review and reconciliation
      a.   Departmental accounting records and documents are examined by
employees who have sufficient understanding of the Town accounting and
financial systems to verify that recorded transactions actually took place and
were made in accordance with Town policies and procedures.
      b.   Departmental accounting records and documentation are compared with
Town accounting system reports and financial statements to verify their
reasonableness, accuracy and completeness,
   5.   The general internal control principles should be applied to all
departmental operations, especially accounting records and reports, payroll,
purchasing/receiving/disbursement approval, equipment and supply inventories,
cash receipts, petty cash and change funds, billing and accounts receivable.
B.   All Town systems, processes, operations, functions and activities are
subject to evaluations of internal control systems. The results of these
evaluations provide information regarding the Town's overall system of control.
C.   Information and communication - Information must be timely and
communicated in a manner that enables people to carry out their
responsibilities.
   1.   All covered employees must be trained on Internal Controls according to
I.C. 5-11-1-27(g).
      All personnel must receive a clear message from the Town's administration
that control responsibilities are to be taken seriously. Failure to comply with
established practices will subject individuals to the terms of disciplinary
action or dismissal.
   2.   Employees must understand their own roles in the internal control
system, as well as how individual activities relate to the work of others. To
this end, whenever a new budgetary unit, financial activity, etc. is set up,
the Clerk-Treasurer will provide notification to the appropriate parties of the
responsibilities incumbent on them for good business practices and sound
financial management, including reference to the principles within this policy.
   3.   Employees must have a means of communicating significant information to
the Town's administration.
   4.   The Town must communicate effectively with external parties, such as
auditors, creditors, contractors, suppliers, regulators and other stakeholders.
D.   Internal control is meant to keep the Town focused on achieving its
mission while avoiding surprises. There is a balance between effective controls
and mission accomplishment. Costs associated with internal controls should not
exceed their benefit, nor should controls be allowed to stifle mission
effectiveness and timely action. All levels of management must assess the
costs, benefits and risks when designing controls to develop a positive control
environment and compensate for the risks of non-compliance, loss of assets or
unreliable reporting while accomplishing the Town mission.
The following specific internal control policies are adopted for use by Town
Departments:
Payroll Activities
   •   Salaries and wage rates are verified by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   •   The responsibilities for hiring, terminating and approving promotions
are segregated from those preparing payroll transactions or inputting data.
   •   The responsibilities for approving time sheets are segregated from those
preparing payroll transactions or inputting data.
   •   Payroll adjustment reports are submitted by someone outside of the
payroll process.
   •   Employee's time and attendance records are approved by their
supervisors.
   •   Corrections to recorded time and attendance records are approved by the
employee and employee's supervisor.
   •   Procedures are in place to ensure that changes in employment status are
promptly reported to the payroll processing unit.
   •   Payroll disbursements are reviewed and approved by an authorized
individual prior to payment.
   •   Access to payroll applications is appropriately controlled by user
logins and passwords.
   •   Changes to a payroll disbursement are approved by an individual other
than the ones authorized to process these changes.
   •   Payroll checks are accounted for in numerical order and reconciled to
the payroll check register.
   •   Access to the signature stamp used to sign payroll checks is adequately
controlled.
   •   Payroll checks are mailed or distributed by someone outside the normal
payroll distribution function.
   •   Unclaimed payroll checks are returned to Clerk-Treasurer via the
Department Head.
   •   Employees are cross-trained on the payroll process; those assigned to
payroll take regular vacations.
Disbursement Activities
   •   The responsibility for approving claims is segregated from those
preparing the claims.
   •   Checks are written by an individual other than the one approving the
claim.
   •   Checks are signed by an individual other than the one preparing them.
   •   Claims for payment are reviewed and approved by the governing body prior
to payment.
   •   A reconcilement is completed between the claims for payment approved by
the board and the actual disbursements posted to the ledger.
   •   The responsibility for acknowledging the receipt of goods or services is
segregated from those preparing claims and writing checks.
   •   Vendor checks are accounted for in numerical order and reconciled to the
disbursement ledger.
   •   Invoices or other receipts are attached to each claim to support the
disbursement.
   •   A review is completed by an individual outside the disbursement process
in which the claim amount is compared to the supporting documentation attached
to the claim and the amount of the check.
   •   Access to disbursement applications is appropriately controlled by user
logins and passwords.
Receipting Activities
   •   The responsibility for collecting money and issuing receipts is
segregated from those preparing the bank deposit.
   •   The responsibility for making bank deposits is segregated from those
preparing the monthly bank reconcilement.
   •   Pre-numbered receipts are issued for all money collected and the receipt
is retained with supporting documentation.
   •   Receipts are reconciled to the cash receipts ledger by an individual
other than the one collecting money and issuing receipts.
   •   Posting of receipts to the ledger is completed by an individual other
than the one who collects money and makes the deposit.
   •   Receipts indicate the type of payment received (cash, check, etc.) and
this is reconciled to the make-up of the bank deposit.
   •   Accounts receivable records are maintained by an individual other than
the one(s) involved in the billing process.
   •   The billing process is completed by an individual other than the one who
collects cash payments from customers.
   •   Adjustments to customer accounts above our managerial threshold are
approved by the governing body only after review.
Cash Activities
   •   A reconcilement between the recorded cash balance and the bank balance
is completed monthly by an individual separate from the receipting and
disbursing processes.
   •   A reconcilement between the receipts ledger and the credits to the bank
account is completed periodically by an individual separate of the receipting
process.
   •   A reconcilement between the disbursement ledger and the debits to the
bank account is completed periodically by an individual separate of the
disbursement process.
   •   The monthly reconcilement between the cash balance and the bank balance
is thoroughly reviewed and approved by the governing body.
   •   Disbursements from and reimbursements to petty cash funds are
periodically reviewed by an individual other than the one responsible for
maintaining the petty cash fund.
Credit Cards Transactions
   •   A designated official or employee oversees the issuance and use of the
credit cards.
   •   An ordinance or resolution specifically states the purposes for which
the credit card may be used.
   •   A designated person separate from disbursement process reviews
transactions listed on the credit card statements for sufficient documentation
and inclusion in claim to the Board.
Principle 11: Management designs the political subdivision's information system
and related control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks.
The Clerk-Treasurer, Town Council and Department Heads will work with the
Information Technology Department to ensure that information technology is used
as an integral part of the internal control system. This may include, but not
be limited to:
   •   Setting permission such that only certain users may perform certain
tasks.
   •   Using technology to accomplish segregation of duties by forcing duties
to be completed by different users.
   •   Automating certain processes and calculations.
   •   Limiting the authority to access different components of various
software to employees with duties specifically related to that component.
   •   Prohibiting user ID and password sharing among employees.
   •   Restricting the authority to correct or make adjustments to records to
key employees.
   •   Requiring the use of prescribed forms or the approval of alternative
forms.
Principle 12: Management implements control activities through policies.
The Town has an employee handbook that is regularly updated to communicate
policies to employees. Additionally, the Clerk-Treasurer regularly works with
departments and employees who handle financial transactions to recommend and
ensure best practices. All procedures are in writing and communicated
frequently to all relevant employees. Policies are available both
electronically and in hard copy form.
COMPONENT FOUR: INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION
Principle 13: Management uses quality information to achieve the political
subdivision's objectives.
The Town strives to lead in the areas of financial transparency and
accountability. By adopting standards and investing in systems that exceed
State mandated minimums, Town management provides employees and stakeholders
with high quality information and informatics systems. The Clerk-Treasurer’s
Office attends training and industry seminars to stay abreast of changes and
developments in requirements and communicate that information effectively to
impacted employees.
Principle 14: Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the political subdivision’s objectives.
Internal communications on internal controls are communicated through adoption
of formal policies by relevant boards and commissions and/or the legislative
body or documented through memos from the Clerk-Treasurer or relevant
Department Head. Internal memos and reports are maintained to document
communication.
Principle 15: Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the entity’s objectives.
Communications with the State Board of Accounts, other State agencies, grantor
agencies and regulatory agencies are documented by email, memos, letters and
other forms of written correspondence. Logs are kept for information provided
verbally. All documents are maintained in accordance with the Town and state’s
record retention policies. Reports and policies are cross checked for accuracy,
relevancy and timeliness of information.
COMPONENT FIVE: MONITORING ACTIVITIES
Principle 16: Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results.
Town Administration monitors and evaluates compliance with internal control
policies via multiple vectors. Separation of duties, redundancy policies,
layered approval systems, monthly reports and physical controls such as video
monitoring allow management to both review and evaluate control systems.
The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council shall implement a system of monitoring
that includes:
   •   Periodic checks to determine if controls are in place and working
effectively.
   •   Reviewing control activities to determine if the actual activities are
in compliance with established procedures.
   •   Documenting deficiencies in the internal control processes and
remediating them quickly.
Monitoring activities will be documented by signatures, initials or other
appropriate methods.
Principle 17: Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies on
a timely basis.
Breaches of internal controls are subject to significant levels of internal
scrutiny. If informed of a material breach of internal controls, the Clerk-
Treasurer and Town Council actively investigate and address said breach and
adjust policies and procedures to prevent such breaches in the future. Once
breaches are identified and investigated, a formal or informal corrective
action plan will be developed.
(Ord. 02-2016, passed - -2016)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
34.03   Administration
   
34.04   Schedule of fines
   
34.05   Noncompliance; enforcement
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a town Ordinance Violations Bureau, pursuant to
I.C. 33-36, as amended.
§ 34.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   The Town Council shall appoint a person to serve as the Violations Clerk,
who may be the Town Clerk-Treasurer or the Town Manager, to administer the
Ordinance Violations Bureau.
§ 34.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Violations Clerk and his or her staff, as agents, shall accept
written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations, and payment of
civil penalties up to a specific dollar set forth in an ordinance adopted by
the Town Council, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted, and accounted for by the
clerk under procedures provided for by the state’s Board of Accounts. Payment
of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person or by mail to the
Violations Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
   (C)   A person charged with an ordinance or code violation under this
chapter is entitled to a trial before a court as provided by law, unless the
person waives the right to trial and enters an admission of
the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon an admission, the Violations
Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount prescribed by the
schedule of civil penalties established and adopted under §
34.04.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
   (D)   If a person charged with a violation under this chapter wants to
exercise the right to trial, the person shall appear before the Violations
Clerk and deny the violation or enter a written denial with the Violations
Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 34.04 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   The schedule of code and ordinance violations which shall be subject to
admission of violation before the Violations Clerk shall, when adopted by the
Town Council, be published as part of this code.
§ 34.05 NONCOMPLIANCE; ENFORCEMENT.
   If a person denies an ordinance or code violation as set out herein, or
fails to pay and satisfy the civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation, or fails to deny or admit the
violation of any of the provisions adopted by reference in §
34.04, then the Violations Clerk shall report this fact to the Town Attorney,
who may then initiate an action to prosecute the ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-6-3-3)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Tort Claims Against Town
   
35.01   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
35.02   Form and service of notice
Payment of Claims Prior to Board Allowance
   
35.15   Review of claims
Use of Buildings Owned, Rented by Town
   
35.25   Keys
   
35.26   Use
   
35.27   Forfeiture
Fees
   
35.40   Reserved
   
35.41   Accident report fees
Access to Public Records
   
35.50   Public records policy
   
35.51   Purpose
   
35.52   Definitions
   
35.53   Public information officer
   
35.54   Requests for disclosure of public records
   
35.55   Copy fees
   
35.56   Records exempt from disclosure
   
35.57   Partial or full denial of the request
   
35.58   Penalty
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 35.01 CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 35.02 FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
PAYMENT OF CLAIMS PRIOR TO BOARD ALLOWANCE
§ 35.15 REVIEW OF CLAIMS.
   The Fiscal Officer, Town of Monrovia and the Town Council shall review and
allow that claims at the Council's next regular or special meeting following;
these preapproved payment of expenses.
(Ord. 9-1997, passed 6-23-1997)
USE OF BUILDINGS OWNED, RENTED BY TOWN
§ 35.25 KEYS.
   Keys to any and all facilities will only be given to authorized persons who
have been approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 14-1997, § 1, passed 8-25-1997)
§ 35.26 USE.
   All use of these buildings shall be for town business only, unless prior
approval is obtained from the Town Council.
(Ord. 14-1997, § 2, passed 8-25-1997)
§ 35.27 FORFEITURE.
   Any authorized person who violates §§
35.25 and
35.26 shall return all keys and be denied access to the buildings without being
with an authorized person. This forfeiture requires a hearing by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 14-1997, § 3, passed 8-25-1997)
FEES
§ 35.40 RESERVED.
§ 35.41 ACCIDENT REPORT FEES.
   (A)   The Town Council has established an ordinance to charge a fee of $5
for the copying of an accident report.
   (B)   This section will establish a fee for a V.I.N. Inspection of $5.
   (C)   This section will establish a fee for Handgun License Application. The
fee of $10 will be paid to the Monrovia Police Department and a fee of $15 will
be paid to the State of Indiana.
   (D)   These fees will go into the Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education
Fund established by Ord. 6-1999.
(Ord. 7-1999, passed 8-23-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Application for license to carry handgun; procedure, see I.C. 35-47-2-3
ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 35.50 PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY.
   (A)   I.C. 5-14-3 et seq., also known as the Access to Public Records Act,
establishes the law concerning access to public records in the State of Indiana
and this subchapter shall be construed according to the policy and direction of
that statute. I.C. 5-14-3-1 states that "a fundamental philosophy of the
American constitutional form of representative government is that government is
the servant of the people and not their master. Accordingly, it is the public
policy of the State that all persons are entitled to full and complete
information regarding the affairs of government and the official acts of those
who represent them as public officials and employees."
   (B)   The provisions of this policy shall be liberally interpreted and
construed to promote full access to the town's public records in order to
assure continuing public confidence in government; but that the town shall
prevent unreasonable invasions of privacy, shall protect public records from
damage or disorganization, shall prevent excessive interference with essential
government functions, while maintaining compliance with I.C. 5-14-3 et seq. in
all respects.
   (C)   The town, including any agency, department, employee, officer, agent,
or any other person(s) conducting town business shall not deny or interfere
with the ability of any member of the public to inspect or copy records within
a reasonable amount of time after the request is received by the town, provided
the request was submitted in proper form, clearly states the document(s)
requested, and that the requested record(s) are not exempt from disclosure, as
defined by statute.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 35.51 PURPOSE.
   In addition to the foregoing policy statement, the purpose of this
subchapter is to establish a procedure for the submission of requests for
public records.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 35.52 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   COPY. Includes transcribing by handwriting, photocopying, xerography,
duplicating machine, duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape,
drum, or any other medium of electronic data storage, and reproducing by any
other means.
   INSPECT. Includes the right to do the following:
      (1)   Manually transcribe and make notes, abstracts, or memoranda.
      (2)   In the case of tape recordings or other aural public records, to
listen and manually transcribe or duplicate, or make notes, abstracts, or other
memoranda from them.
   PERSON. An individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a
partnership, an unincorporated association, or a governmental entity.
   PUBLIC RECORD. Any writing, paper, report, study, map, photograph, book,
card, tape recording, or other material that is created, received, retained,
maintained, or filed by or with a public agency and which is generated on
paper, paper substitutes, photographic media, chemically based media, magnetic
or machine-readable media, electronically stored data, or any other material,
regardless of form or characteristics.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 35.53 PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER.
   (A)   In order to implement the Access to Public Records Act, the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town is hereby designated as the person responsible for
administering public records requests and ensuring compliance with I.C. 5-14-
3 and is therefore designated as the Public Information Officer. The Public
Information Officer may utilize the Town Attorney or other town officer(s) or
employee(s) to assist in responding to public records and/or public information
requests.
   (B)   Any person may inspect and copy the public records of the town during
regular business hours, unless such records are otherwise exempted from
disclosure as provided herein, under I.C. 5-14-3-4, or other applicable state
or federal law.
   (C)   The Public Information Officer shall insure that a copy of this
subchapter as well as the public records request forms are made available and
provided to the public, without cost, at the Town Hall. Electronic copies shall
be made available to the public on the town's website.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 35.54 REQUESTS FOR DISCLOSURE OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   All requests for disclosure of public records shall be made in writing
on a Public Records Request Form approved by the Council and made available on
the town's website and available at Town Hall. A copy of this form is attached
to Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-26-2022.
   (B)   A request for inspection or copying must:
      (1)   Identify with reasonable particularity the record being requested;
      (2)   Be in writing or in a form provided by the town;
      (3)   The requester's name, mailing address, phone number and email
address (if one is available);
      (4)   The date of the request;
      (5)   A clear indication that the document is a "Public Records Request";
      (6)   A clear description of the public records requested for inspection
and/or copying;
      (7)   If the request is for a document which lists individuals, a
statement that the list will not be used for any commercial purposes or that
the requester is authorized or directed by law to obtain the list of
individuals for commercial purposes, with a specific reference to such law; and
      (8)   Whether the request is for printed or digital copies of the public
record.
   (C)   All records shall be inspected only at Town Hall during regular
business hours, excluding legal holidays: provided, that there is no obligation
to allow inspection immediately upon a demand. The Public Information Officer
may request that the person seeking to inspect public records schedule an
appointment for inspection.
   (D)   Any request by mail for copies of records may be addressed to the
Records Access Officer and will be honored upon payment of the regular fee;
provided, the requested record is sufficiently identified to make compliance
practicable.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 35.55 COPY FEES.
   (A)   Fees for copies of documents shall be as follows:
      (1)   $0.10 per page copied for copies in black and white ink only;
      (2)   $0.25 per page for copies in color ink; and
      (3)   $5 per document for certification of documents.
   (B)   Fees are payable in advance and shall be paid before any record(s) is
duplicated and may be paid by cash or money order made payable to the town.
   (C)   Nothing contained herein shall require the town to take unusual or
unreasonable steps to acquire a machine capable of mechanically reproducing the
document if in fact no such access can be reasonably had and in that event the
person making the request for a record is only entitled to inspect and manually
transcribe the record.
   (D)   No fee will be charged for the inspection of a public record; for
locating public records in response to a request and making the records
available for inspection or copying; or for searching for public records,
redacting portions of a record which are exempt from disclosure or preparing an
index of exempt documents.
   (E)   All fees received from a person pursuant to this policy shall be
deposited into the general fund.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 35.56 RECORDS EXEMPT FROM DISCLOSURE.
   The town shall not be required to disclose public records that:
   (A)   Are exempt from disclosure, unless specifically required by state or
federal statute or ordered by a Court, as defined in I.C. 5-14-3-4(a);
   (B)   Are exempt from disclosure, in the discretion of the town as permitted
by and in accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-4(b); or
   (C)   Public records which are determined, after diligent search, not to be
available.
   (D)   A list of names and addresses of town employees unless the town is
required to publish any such list and disseminate the same to the public in
accordance with statute.
   (E)   A list of employees of the town or a list of persons attending
conferences or meetings at a state institution of higher education, if the
individual or entity making such request plans to use the information for
political purposes or is a commercial entity and intends to use the information
for commercial purposes.
   (F)   Create a list, memorandum, report, summary, or any other document or
thing that does not already exist.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 35.57 PARTIAL OR FULL DENIAL OF THE REQUEST.
   (A)   If a public record contains disclosable and non-disclosable
information, the information that is disclosable must be made available for
inspection. The Records Access Officer shall separate, or redact, the non-
disclosable information.
   (B)   If any written request is denied by the Records Access Officer, the
Records Access Officer must:
      (1)   Deny the request in writing and sign as the Records Access Officer;
and
      (2)   Include a statement of the specific statutory reason for
nondisclosure of the information.
   (C)   No request may be denied because the person making the request refuses
to state the purpose for the request unless that condition is required by other
applicable statute.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 35.58 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person having or obtaining access to a
public record to alter the content of the public record from its original
state.
   (B)   Any person violating this subchapter shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding $2,500 for each offense. A complaint for violation seeking the
imposition of a fine may be filed with any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-26-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WASTEWATER
CHAPTER 50: WASTEWATER
Section
Availability Fee; Equivalent Dwelling Units
   
50.01   Fee established; EDU table
   
50.02   Payment of fee
   
50.03   EDU factor; conversion
   
50.04   Utility line extensions; responsibility
   
50.05   Sewer lateral installations; conformity
   
50.06   Minimum standards
Sewer Usage
   
50.20   Definitions
   
50.21   Use of public sewers required
   
50.22   Building sewers and connections
   
50.23   Discharges; requirements
   
50.24   Damage to public sewers
   
50.25   Inspectors; powers and authority
   
50.26   Technical requirements
   
50.27   Appeals
Rates and Charges
   
50.40   Necessity of charges
   
50.41   Definitions
   
50.42   Operation and Maintenance Fund; designation of moneys
   
50.43   Monthly fees; surcharges; credits
   
50.44   Billing procedures; collection
   
50.45   Report of wastewater characteristics
   
50.46   Written request
   
50.47   Review of charges by town
   
50.48   Disconnection for late payment
 
   
50.99   Penalty
AVAILABILITY FEE; EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNITS
§ 50.01 FEE ESTABLISHED; EDU TABLE.
   (A)   There is hereby established an availability fee of $3,000 for all new
connections to the system. The availability fee will be based according to the
following Equivalent Dwelling Unit (EDU) table, with the Unit Equivalent for
each user being multiplied by the then-existing availability fee:
EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT TABLE
Type of User Unit Equivalent
Type of User                               Unit Equivalent
Single Family Residences and Condominiums  1.00
Multi-Family Residences                     
1 Bedroom                                  .64
2 Bedroom                                  .96
3+ Bedrooms                                1.00
Assembly Halls, Lodges, Veteran            .01/seat
Organizations
Barber Shops                               .60/chair
Bars and Cocktail Lounges                  .10/seat
Bowling Alleys                             .32/lane
Churches                                   .01/seat
Day Care Centers                           .03/child and staff
Doctor/Dentist Office                      2.00/1000 sq. ft. of building area
Drive-In/Drive-Thru restaurant             .40/car space
Hospital                                   .50/bed
Institutions other than hospitals          .40/bed
Kennel                                     .10/cage
Laundromats                                1.00/washing machine
Mobile Home parks                          .75/space
Motels/Hotels                              .32/room
Nursing Home                               .30/bed
Offices/Governmental Agencies              .50/1000 sq. ft. of building area
Restaurants                                .10/seat
Retail Space                               1.00/1000 sq. ft. of building area
w/ fountain space, add                     .10/seat
Rooming Houses                             .30/renter
Schools                                    .05/pupil and staff
w/ cafeterias and/or showers               .09/pupil and staff
Service Station                            .70/island
Theaters                                   .01/seat
Warehouses                                 .04/1000 sq. ft. of building area
Manufacturing facilities                   depends on type of industry
(usage shall be estimated and converted to  
EDUs based on 310 gpd)
Other Facilities                           Negotiated
 
   (B)   The $3,000 availability fee is effective on May 9, 2005, except that
those entities that have already received approval from the Planning Commission
and/or Town Board to begin construction, or who have negotiated a rate under
Ord. 4-2003 prior to May 9, 2005, the effective date of the amending ordinance,
shall pay the prior referenced availability fee.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-14-2003; Am. Ord. passed 5-9-2005)
§ 50.02 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   The fee is to be paid as follows: One-half of the fee must be paid prior to
the issuance of any building permit, and ½ of the fee is to be paid prior to
occupancy. In the event that the owner/developer has not received zoning
approval and/or completed the project within 2 years from the date of
application, the initial payment shall be forfeited to Monrovia. Any extension
of time for completion shall be permitted upon written approval of Monrovia.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 50.03 EDU FACTOR; CONVERSION.
   In order to provide an equitable method of assessing fees between non-
residential and residential users, projected flows are converted to equivalent
single-family residences using an EDU factor equal to 310 gallons per day usage
rate.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 50.04 UTILITY LINE EXTENSIONS; RESPONSIBILITY.
   Utility line extensions shall be the responsibility of the project developer
and shall be constructed to Monrovia's specifications and standards. Upon
completion and after approval based on inspections by Monrovia, the constructed
facilities and all necessary easements shall be donated to Monrovia as public
facilities, after which Monrovia shall be responsible for their maintenance.
Extensions shall be constructed to the point of service for the particular
development. The developer is required to extend the utility through the
project area to the limit of its property boundary. The developer is required
to grant the easements in favor of Monrovia to permit the extension of the line
for future development.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 50.05 SEWER LATERAL INSTALLATIONS; CONFORMITY.
   All sewer lateral installations shall conform to the latest edition of the
Uniform Plumbing Code. A mandatory inspection of lateral lines and connections
must be completed prior to any hook-on. For scheduling purposes, the developer/
owner must contact Monrovia at least 24 hours in advance of the inspection.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 50.06 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards must be used:
   (A)   A “Y” cleanout must be installed within 3 feet of the building's
exterior.
   (B)   Minimum schedule of pipe is SRD35. Minimum pipe size is 4 inches in
diameter.
   (C)   Minimum slope of lateral from the building to the main is 1/4 inch per
foot.
   (D)   Backfill material must be either sand or pea gravel.
   (E)   At time of inspection, pipe must be bedded to ½ the diameter of the
pipe. All sections and joints must be exposed. After inspection, pipe must be
backfilled with the equivalent of the pipe's diameter (such as, 4-inch diameter
pipe will have 4 inches of sand or pea gravel at the top, bottom, and each
side).
   (F)   Either glue or gasketted slip joint must be the type of pipe
connection.
   (G)   The use of 90-degree elbows is prohibited. Use of two 45-degree elbows
is acceptable, but must be a minimum of 1 foot of pipe between each 45-degree
elbow.
   (H)   Clear water discharges are prohibited into or with the lateral tie-in
such as foundation/footing drains, sump pumps, roof drains/downpours, heat
pump/cooling water.
   (I)   Joint sealant for concrete tanks must be butyl rubber and meet or
exceed the requirements of ASTM C-990, Standard Specification for Joints for
Concrete Pipe, Manholes, and Precast Sections Using Preformed Flexible Joint
Sealants, § 6.2 Butyl Rubber Sealant, and be installed according to
manufacturer's installation recommendations.
   (J)   Drain holes in precast concrete tanks must be plugged with hydraulic
cement or a plug provided by the manufacturer before the tank is put into use.
   (K)   Manufacturer's recommendations for the anchoring of fiberglass and
polyethylene tanks must be followed.
   (L)   Where the water table is above the base of the tank during
installation, one or more of the following measures must be used:
      (1)   The tank must be filled with water;
      (2)   Soil material must be placed over the top of the tank; and
      (3)   Groundwater must be pumped from the excavation until the backfill
operation is complete.
   (M)   Pipe installed in connectors must be restrained from movement during
backfill operations.
   (N)   Backfill with soil material:
      (1)   Stones or debris must be no greater than 3 inches;
      (2)   Soil material must be placed in layers 12 inches to 24 inches
thick. Depth of layers must be adjusted according to soil material used; and
      (3)   Each layer of soil material must be compacted to prevent uneven
settling.
   (O)   The final grade must divert surface water away from the tank access
opening covers.
   (P)   When the tank(s) is abandoned and/or removed, the following measures
are to be followed:
      (1)   The owner/developer is responsible for abandonment/removal of all
tanks;
      (2)   Tanks must be abandoned and/or removed when the useful life of the
tank has been exceeded or when an OSS is abandoned;
      (3)   If the tank is abandoned:
         (a)   The tank must be pumped of all contents by a licensed wastewater
management business;
         (b)   The tank cover must be collapsed into the tank or removed; and
         (c)   The tank must be filled with debris-free sand, or other granular
or soil material that is compacted, to prevent settling.
      (4)   If the tank is removed:
         (a)   The tank must be pumped of all contents by a licensed wastewater
management business;
         (b)   The tank must be removed; and
         (c)   The remaining excavation must be filled with debris-free sand,
or other granular or soil material that is compacted, to prevent settling.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 7-14-2003)
SEWER USAGE
§ 50.20 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this subchapter shall be as follows:
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning 5 feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOAT ABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state so that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of FLOAT ABLE oil if it is
properly pretested and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic sanitary wastes.
   MAY. Permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTES. Sanitary wastes which do not exceed 250 mg/l BOD,
250 mg/l SS or 30 mg/l ammonia in strength; phosphorus in excess of 4 mg/l; and
fats, wax grease, or oils, collectively, whether emulsified or not, in excess
of 100 mg/l.
   N.P.D.E.S. PERMIT. A permit obtained from the State of Indiana by the Town
of Monrovia to discharge treated wastewater of the wastewater facilities into a
watercourse.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food, that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than 5 times the average 24-hour concentration, or
flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection system
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. A drain for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water, or
unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the wastewater treatment works of the
Town of Monrovia, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANTS. Concentrations of any pollutant, or combination of
pollutants, defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307 of the Clean Water
Act (as amended).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or
liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers,
sewage collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions improvement, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from the
treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of the
compost, and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 12-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 50.21 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner, on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided, in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this ordinance.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located, or may in the future be located, a public sanitary sewer of the town,
is hereby required at the owner(s)' expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect the facilities to the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 90 days after date,
of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 300 feet
of the property line.
(Ord. 12-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 50.22 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections, or
disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof, without first obtaining a
written permit from the Superintendent. The permission shall be subject to the
existence of sufficient hydraulic and/or treatment capacities of the wastewater
treatment facilities as determined by the Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be 2 classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner(s), or his or her agent, shall make
application on a special form furnished by the Superintendent. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in judgment of the Superintendent. A permit
and inspection fee of $300 for residential or commercial building sewer permit,
and $500 for an industrial building sewer permit, shall be paid to the
Superintendent at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where 1 building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot, and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as 1
building sewer, but the town does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any single connection.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to all criteria of §
50.26 of this chapter. In the absence of code provisions, or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the ASTM and WPC Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (F)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In any buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (G)   (1)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downpours, foundation
drains, areaway drains, sump pumps, basement or yard drains, or other sources
of surface runoff or groundwater, to a building sewer which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer; and
      (2)   Any connection to a private sewage disposal system, which existed
prior to the availability of public sewers, shall be removed from the building
sewer prior to connection with the public sewer.
   (H)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPC
Manual of Practice No. 9. All connections shall be made gaslight and watertight
and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (I)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent, or his or her representative. The applicant
shall provide access to all structures (and areas of structures) to the
Superintendent for the purpose of establishing compliance with division (G)
above.
   (J)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (K)   All properties where there is an available sanitary sewer within 300
feet of the property line shall connect to the aforementioned sanitary sewer
system.
      (1)   The cost of any grinder pump or other associated equipment required
to make such connection shall be the exclusive responsibility of the individual
property owner.
      (2)   Failure to comply with this requirement after the required 90 day
notice will result in a fine of $100 per day.
      (3)   Property owners may request to have the town pay the initial cost
associated with the installation, replacement, or repair of a grinder pump used
or required for this purpose.
         (a)   If the town pays these expenses at the time of service, the
property owner shall be required to repay the entire cost of the equipment and
labor required to install the grinder pump, payable on payment plan, as an
addition to their regular monthly sewer bill.
      (4)   The town shall adopt a policy regarding the imposition of fees in
this division (K) that includes:
         (a)   For those properties that currently have grinder pumps, the
provisions of this division (K) shall be enforced upon transfer of title to the
real property at any time after adoption of this section;
         (b)   Any further direction necessitated by division (K)(3)(a) above;
or
         (c)   Any other matter authorized by Chapter 50 that is necessary or
prudent in collection of fees and costs related thereto.
(Ord. 12-1999, passed 9-27-1999; Am. Ord. 2021-08, passed 9-28-2021)
§ 50.23 DISCHARGES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
unpolluted waters such as storm water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, sump pumps, basement or yard drain, or cooling water to any sewer,
except storm water runoff from limited areas, which storm water may be polluted
at times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   Storm water other than that exempted under division (A) above, and all
other unpolluted drainage, shall be discharged to the sewers as are
specifically designated storm sewers, to a natural outlet approved by the
Superintendent and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling
water or process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic substances or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, including but
not limited to, causing the town to violate its N.P.D.E.S. permit(s),
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, ingrained garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshes, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials waters, or waste shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established in
the regulations below if in his or her opinion that more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to the factors as the
quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, degree of tractability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant,
and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing FLOAT ABLE oils, fats,
or grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded as defined in §
50.20. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels,
institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar
places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for
the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to a degree that any material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for those materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a slug
as defined herein;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes;
      (11)   Any water or wastes subject to the categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to Title 40 C.F.R. part 403;
      (12)   Any water or wastes exceed the following parameters:
         (a)   BOD5: 250 mg/1;
         (b)   SS: 250 mg/1;
         (c)   Ammonia: 30 mg/l;
         (d)   Phosphorus: 4 mg/1; and
         (e)   Fats, wax, grease and oils: 100 mg/l.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which in the judgment
of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent
may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge and/
or;
         (d)   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing sewer charges.
      (2)   When considering the above alternatives, the Superintendent shall
give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the
discharger. If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent.
   (F)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors, separate and distinct from
the septic tank component of the building sewer, shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing FLOAT ABLE grease in excessive amounts, as specified
in division (D)(3), or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful
ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms; and
      (2)   The Superintendent may determine whether the suitable septic tank
required as a component of the building sewer will satisfy the requirements for
an interceptor(s).
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall he maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure together with the necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of
the wastes. The structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely
located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (I)   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this subchapter. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewater;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes, and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent,
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewers.
   (J)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this ordinance, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (K)   (1)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any user
whereby a waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the town
for treatment.
      (2)   Any wastes described in division (C)(1) and (2) are precluded from
these agreements.
(Ord. 12-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 50.24 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person(s) shall intentionally or knowingly break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person(s) violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest.
(Ord. 12-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 50.25 INSPECTORS; POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
wastewater facilities bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharge to the community
system in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town's employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by town employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
50.23(H).
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
wastewater facilities bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the town holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the
wastewater facilities lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work,
if any on the easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 12-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 50.26 TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Septic tanks serving as a component of the building sewer shall be
installed, constructed and maintained in accordance with applicable portions of
410 I.A.C. 6-8-1 et seq. A septic tank so installed, constructed and
maintained, shall be considered suitable for use as a component of a building
sewer. Two copies of 410 I.A.C. 6-8-1 et seq. are on file in the office of the
Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 12-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 50.27 APPEALS.
   Any person who believes himself or herself aggrieved through the enforcement
of this subchapter has the right to seek administrative relief before the Town
Council.
(Ord. 12-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.40 NECESSITY OF CHARGES.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the town to
collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the town's
Treatment Works. The proceeds of the charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating and maintaining the public Treatment Works.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 50.41 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this subchapter shall be as follows:
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/1).
   COMMERCIAL USER. All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings,
laundries, and other private business and service establishments.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Legislative, judicial, administrative, and regulatory
activities of federal, state and local governments.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any non-governmental, non-residential user of publicly
owned treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented, under the following divisions; Division A - Agriculture,
Forestry, and Fishing; Division B - Mining; Division D - Manufacturing;
Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary; and
Division I - Services.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Social, charitable, religious, and educational
activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, penal
institutions and similar institutional users.
   MAY. Permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 250 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 250
mg/l and ammonia in excess of 30 mg/l; phosphorus in excess of 4 mg/l; and
fats, wax, grease, or oils, collectively, whether emulsified or not, in excess
of 100 mg/l. Additional charges for treating stronger-than-normal domestic
sewage shall be made as set out in §
50.43.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the Treatment Works for materials, labor, utilities
and other items which are necessary for managing, and which these works were
designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
replacement, as hereinafter defined.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances, which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works, to maintain the capacity and performance for which these works
were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the Town's Treatment Works whose lot,
parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANTS. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307 of the Clean Water Act
(as amended).
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions improvement, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land, that will be an integral part of the treatment
process, or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from this
treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of the
compost and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. That portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the Treatment Works.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 50.42 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUND; DESIGNATION OF MONIES..
   (A)   The revenues collected, as a result of the user charges levied for
operation and maintenance, shall be deposited in a separate, non-lapsing fund
known as the Operation and Maintenance Fund.
   (B)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation and Maintenance Fund shall
be used for no other purposes than those designated. Monies which have been
transferred from other sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation and
Maintenance Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance and
replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted so that the transferred
monies will be returned to their respective accounts within 6 months of the
fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 50.43 MONTHLY FEES; SURCHARGES; CREDITS.
   (A)    Each user or any person, business or institution that is, pursuant to
I.C. 36-9-23-30 required to be connected to Monrovia’s Wastewater Treatment
Plant, shall pay for the services provided by the Treatment Works, whether or
not said person, business, or institutional facility is actually connected to
the line, based on a flat fee (or other appropriate methods) acceptable to the
Council.
   (B)   For residential, industrial, institutional and commercial users,
monthly user charges will be based on a flat fee, unless after proper
publication and public hearing, the town decides to establish rate(s) or rate
structure.
   (C)    Each user shall pay a flat fee based on the following schedule:
      Monthly charge for sewer service:
 
Residential Customer                  $56.73
Commercial Customer (non-residential) $56.73
School rate                           $1,925.00 1
1 Less: Library rate of $56.73. Net monthly rate is $1,868.27
 
   (D)   (1)   For those users whose wastewater has a greater strength than
normal domestic sewage, a surcharge, in addition to the normal user charge,
will be collected. The surcharge for operation and maintenance including
replacement is:
         (a)   $.50 per pound BOD, in excess of 250 mg/1;
         (b)   $.50 per pound SS, in excess of 250 mg/1;
         (c)   $.60 per pound ammonia, in excess of 30 mg/l;
         (d)   $1.50 per pound phosphorus in excess of 4 mg/l; and
         (e)   $.25 per pound fats, wax, grease, or oils, collectively, whether
emulsified or not in excess of 100 mg/l.
      (2)   The determination of suspended solids, biochemical oxygen demand,
ammonia, phosphorus, and fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether emulsified or not,
contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy of Standard
Methods for the Elimination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as written
by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in accordance with
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, Title 40
C.F.R. part 136, as hereinafter amended, supplemented, or replaced.
   (E)   Any user which discharges any Toxic Pollutants which cause an increase
in the cost of managing the effluent of the sludge from the Town's Treatment
Works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance or replacement of the Treatment Works, shall pay for the
increased costs. The charge to each user shall be as determined by the
appropriate financial personnel and approved by the Council.
   (F)   The user charge rates established in this section apply to all users
of the Treatment Works.
   (G)   Credit card payments and convenience fees. IC 36-1-8-11 allows a
municipality to accept credit cards as a method of payment for utility
services. IC 36-1-8-11 also states that if a transaction fee is billed to the
municipality owned utility’s account, an official fee and a reasonable
convenience fee may be charged. The town hereby charges the following fees:
      (1)   For a bill up to the amount of a standard one month wastewater
service charge, a convenience fee of $3.00 shall be charged to the customer.
      (2)   For amounts above a standard one month wastewater service charge,
an official fee of $1.50 per partial or full month equivalent shall be charged
to the customer.
 
Fee Schedule
$0.01 to $56.73                 $3.00 Convenience Fee shall be charged
$56.74 to $113.46               $3.00 Convenience Fee and $1.50 Official Fee
                                shall be charged
$113.47 to $170.19              $3.00 Convenience Fee and $3.00 Official Fee
                                shall be charged
Each additional $0.01 to $56.73 An additional $1.50 Official Fee shall be
                                charged to the amounts above
 
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 9-27-1999; Am. Ord. 2-01, passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. 02-
2002, passed 3-1-2002: Am. Ord. 3-25-2003; Am. Ord. passed 4-14-2003; Am. Ord.
passed 8-25-2003; Am. Ord. passed 9-12-2005; Am. Ord. 3-2009, passed 10-26-
2009; Am. Ord. 02-2015, passed 6-22-2015)
§ 50.44 BILLING PROCEDURES; COLLECTION.
   (A)   All users shall be billed monthly. Billings for any particular month
shall be made no later than 15 days after the end of that month. Any payment
for prior billings not received by that time shall result in the associated
account being considered delinquent.
   (B)   Within a reasonable time after a determination that an account is
delinquent, a billing statement shall be sent notifying the user that their
account is past due.
   (C)   If an account remains unpaid after 30 days have passed from the end of
the month for which the charges were incurred, additional action will be taken
as follows:
      (1)   A late payment fee of 10% will be imposed for each such delinquent
payment.
   (D)   If an account remains unpaid after 60 days have passed from the end of
the month for which the charges were incurred, additional action will be taken
as follows:
      (1)   A late payment fee of 10% will be imposed for each such delinquent
payment.
      (2)   Notice shall be sent to the obligated party regarding the
outstanding payment as well as the penalty described above, and that additional
action may be taken to collect the amount owed, including that a lien may be
recorded; that legal action may be filed against them to foreclose such lien or
prosecute any other available manner to collect the amount owed; that all such
actions would include a request for costs, including reasonable attorney fees.
      (3)   The obligated party may contact the town utility office to
establish a payment plan that, if approved, will eliminate the delinquent
amount while including monthly billings occurring during the period of the
payment plan. The payment plan will be documented in the town sewer utility
computer program. If the payment plan requirements are not met, the actions in
(E) below will be followed.
   (E)   If an account remains unpaid after 90 days have passed from the end of
the month for which the charges were incurred, additional action will be taken
as follows:
      (1)   A late payment fee of 10% will be imposed for each such delinquent
payment.
      (2)   A lien will be recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Morgan
County, Indiana, on the real property associated with the delinquent account,
in accordance with I.C. 36-9-23 and this section, for the full amount in fees
and penalties owed at that time, along with any cost incurred in preparing and
recording the lien.
   (F)   A lien may be released by full payment or by a negotiated payment as
authorized by the Council.
   (G)   If a lien has been recorded and amount remains due and owing, the
Council may instruct its attorney to proceed with foreclosure on the lien, in
their discretion and in accordance with statute.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 9-27-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-25-2005; Am. Ord. passed 9-
12-2005; Am. Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 50.45 REPORT OF WASTEWATER CHARACTERISTICS.
   All users contributing more than 10,000 gallons per month, and whose waste
strength is greater than 250 mg BOD/l or 250 mg SS/l or 30 mg/l ammonia, shall
prepare and file with the Council a report that shall include pertinent data
relating to the wastewater characteristics, including the methods of sampling
and measurement to obtain these data, and these data shall be used to calculate
the user charge for that user. The Council shall have the right to gain access
to the waste stream and take its own samples. Should the Council do so, and
should the results be substantially different as determined by the Council from
the data submitted by the user, the user charge for that user shall be revised
for the next billing cycle/period.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 50.46 WRITTEN REQUEST.
   (A)   Any user who feels his or her user charge is unjust and inequitable,
may make written application to the Council requesting a review of his or her
user charge. The written request shall, where necessary, show the actual or
estimated average flow and/or strength of his or her wastewater in comparison
with the values upon which the charge is based, including how the measurements
or estimates were made.
   (B)   Review of the request shall be made by the Council and if
substantiated, the user charges for that user shall be recomputed based on the
revised flow and/or strength data and the new charges shall be applicable to
the next billing cycle/period.
   (C)   The Council has discretion under this section to grant an abatement of
the further incurrence of fees under this chapter if:
      (1)   The property is not using the treatment works and wastewater
services; and
      (2)   Will not be using the treatment works and wastewater services for a
period of at least six months.
   (D)   Any abatement granted in accordance with division (C) above shall
expire and fees be reinstated upon:
      (1)   The transfer of the real property to another owner;
      (2)   The use of the treatment works and wastewater services; or
      (3)   The expiration of the abatement granted by the Council.
   (E)   Any abatement granted under this section shall be considered on an
individual basis. Division (C) and division (D) above shall not be construed to
conflict with I.C. 36-9-23 et seq. and Chapter 50 of this code.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 9-27-1999; Am. Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 50.47 REVIEW OF CHARGES BY TOWN.
   (A)   The Council will review the user charges at least annually and revise
the rates as necessary to ensure that adequate revenues are generated to pay
the costs of operation and maintenance including replacement and that the
system continues to provide for the proportional distribution of operation and
maintenance including replacement costs among users and user classes.
   (B)   The Council will notify each user at least annually of the rate or the
portion of the total charge for wastewater treatment that is attributable to
operation, maintenance including replacement of the Treatment Works.
(Ord. 11-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
§ 50.48 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
10 days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his of her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel, or any other person of his or her choosing, and may
present orally, or in writing, his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered, or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If anyone violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided, they shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
50.20 et seq., except §
50.24, shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
corrections thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
the notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation (other than a violation
of §
50.23(A)), beyond the time limit provided for in division (B) (1) above, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof, shall be fined in the
amount no less than $50, and not exceeding $500, for each violation. Each day
in which any the violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.20 et seq., shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the town by reason of the violation.
      (4)   (a)   Any person violating §
50.23(A) , shall be subjected to a penalty of $50 per month (or fraction
thereof in which the violation occurs);
         (b)   A person may avoid payment of the penalty by consenting to an
inspection described in §
50.22(I), for the purpose of establishing compliance with §
50.23(A); and
         (c)   A person consenting to an inspection and found in violation
shall be given 90 days to comply with §
50.23(A), without being subjected to penalty.
(Ord. 12-1999, passed 9-27-1999)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire department vehicles;
      (2)   Police department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the state department
of transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
state emergency medical services commission that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies, or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110); and
      (7)   Vehicles of the department of correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the department of correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel. The term includes an alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.  
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of 2 highways that join
at, or approximately at, right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes 2 roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
2 roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of 2 roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate intersection.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric foot scooter, an electric bicycle, or an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
    (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE, for purposes of I.C. 9-21, means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
         (c)   The term does not include an electric foot scooter.
      (3)   MOTOR VEHICLE, for purposes of I.C. 9-32, includes a semitrailer,
trailer, an off-road vehicle, a snowmobile, a mini-truck, a manufactured home,
or a recreational vehicle. The term does not include an electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105)
   MOTORCYCLE. 
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than 3 wheels in contact with
the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 CFR 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)   The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm
tractor, an electric bicycle, or a motor driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   OPERATOR. 
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, means an individual who
operates a vehicle, watercraft, off-road vehicle, or snowmobile.
      (2)   OPERATOR, for purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set
forth in 33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER.
      (1)    Except as otherwise provided in division (2) below, means a
person, other than a lienholder, that:
         (a)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
         (b)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a
vehicle, manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft,
through a lease or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
      (2)   OWNER for purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set forth
in 33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121)
   RIGHT OF WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, ROADWAY means the part of a highway
that is improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term
does not include the sidewalk, berm, or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm,
or shoulder is used by persons riding bicycles or other human powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right
of way to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or
a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 9-13-2-196, a device in, upon,
or by which a person or property is, or may be, transported or drawn upon a
highway. The term does not include the following:
      (1)   A device moved by human power.
      (2)   A device that runs only on rails or tracks.
      (3)   A wheelchair.
      (4)   An electric foot scooter.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible, shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for any barrier
or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   Any sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official control device
or any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.18 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street, any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency, or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this title
for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
   
71.04   Speed limits
Cruising
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Cruising prohibited
   
71.17   Posting of signs
Operation of Golf Carts and Off Road Vehicles
   
71.50   Statement of purpose and policy
   
71.51   Definitions
   
71.52   Regulation of equipment
   
71.53   Rules of operation
   
71.54   Permit
   
71.55   Penalties
   
71.56   Exemptions
   
71.57   Implementation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   No trucks, other than pick-up trucks and passenger trucks and vans, shall be
allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pick-up or delivery.
Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that their use by
through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as a stop intersection and
require all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to these intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at these designated intersections, giving
notice of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as 1-way streets or
highways, and require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway be
moved in 1 specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a 1-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   On all streets within the Town of Monrovia, other than those streets
coming under the jurisdiction of the State of Indiana, the maximum lawful speed
shall be 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5, the Town hereby designates the Morgan County
Prosecutor, or 1 of his or her deputies, as the proper person to bring
prosecution in the name of the Town for violation of this section.
   (C)   The maximum fine for violation of this chapter shall be equal to the
court costs assessed, plus any court costs and/or administrative fees as may be
charged by the appropriate court having jurisdiction over these infractions.
(Ord. 14-1998, passed 1-25-1999)
CRUISING
§ 71.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley, or highway which is delaying
to the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within 2 complete green-light
cycles where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of other
motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign, or yield sign
within a 5-minute period of time where the delay in forward movement is due to
the position of other motor vehicles; or,
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys, or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than 5 miles per hour, and the delay in movement is due to the
position of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley, or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic-control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic-control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the town
Police Department, or other town, county or state official, designated to
enforce this division.
   PROPERTY ON THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley, or highway which is posted as a No-Cruising Zone pursuant to this
division.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley, or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.16 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as CRUISING, as defined in this division on the public streets, alleys,
or highways of the town, in any area which has been posted as a No-Cruising
Zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) of this section
may be given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that
traffic-control point within the next succeeding 4 hours will be a violation of
this division.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) of this section, subsequently drives past or is a
passenger in a vehicle passing the same traffic-control point within the next
succeeding 4 hours, shall be in violation of this division.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.17 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This division may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a No-
Cruising Zone. No Cruising signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley, or highway, or portion thereof, which is a No-
Cruising Zone.
OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND OFF ROAD VEHICLES
§ 71.50 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote public order, safety, and
personal responsibility with respect to the operation of golf carts on the
streets, roadways, alleys, and highways within the Town of Monrovia, Indiana.
All provisions shall be liberally construed consistent with this purpose and
policy.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 71.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:   
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license valid for the operation of a motor vehicle on
public roads and highways in the State of Indiana, whether issued by Indiana or
another state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by Indiana law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the State of Indiana.
   GOLF CART. A four wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and/or golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in Indiana. The term includes an alley
in a city or town. This does not include public rights-of-way under the
jurisdiction of the State of Indiana and the Indiana Department of
Transportation ("INDOT") as well as public rights-of-way outside of the
corporate boundaries of the town.
   RECREATIONAL OFF ROAD VEHICLE. A motorized off-highway vehicle that:
      (1)   Is 64" or less in width;
      (2)   Is designed for travel on at least four tires;
      (3)   Is designed for recreational use by one or more individuals;
      (4)   Has a non-straddle seat or saddle;
      (5)   Has a steering wheel for steering control;
      (6)   Is not a lawn mower; or
      (7)   Has been manufactured from the factory set of headlights, tail
lights, and brake lights.
   ROADWAY. That part of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic under the jurisdiction of the Town of Monrovia.
   The terms HIGHWAY, STREET, ALLEY, ROAD and ROADWAY shall be used
interchangeably for the purposes of this subchapter and the intent of any such
reference shall simply be to a public right-of-way within the boundaries of the
Town of Monrovia that is used for vehicular travel by the public.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 5-24-2021; Ord. 2021-02, Amd. No. 1, passed 8-24-2021)
§ 71.52 REGULATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   Any golf cart moved, operated, or driven upon a street, alley, highway, or
roadway in the Town of Monrovia in accordance with this subchapter and I.C. 9-
21-1-3(a)(14), I.C. 9-21-1-3.3(a), and I.C. 9-21-9 shall have the following
equipment permanently affixed to the golf cart:
   (A)   Rear-view mirror;
   (B)   Fully operational brakes;
   (C)   A triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem mounted as near as is
practicable to the center of mass and at an approximate height of not less than
three and not more than five feet from level ground or pavement surface. The
emblem shall be mounted so as to be entirely visible from the rear, day, or
night. The emblem and the emblem's position of mounting on the vehicle must
meet the specifications established by rules adopted by the Indiana criminal
justice institute and I.C. 9-21-9.
   (D)   If a golf cart is operated between sunset and sunrise, the golf cart
must be equipped with two operating headlights and two operating taillights
that are visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the rear.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 71.53 RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The operation of a golf cart within the Town of Monrovia is strictly
prohibited unless the golf cart is operated and equipped in full compliance
with this subchapter.
   (B)   Permitted roads. Operation of golf carts is permitted on all town
roadways with a posted speed limit of 35 miles per hour or less.
   (C)   Operator. Any person who operates a golf cart upon a roadway within
the corporate limits of the Town of Monrovia shall be at least 16 years of age
and shall have a valid driver's license.
   (D)   Financial responsibility. Any person who operates a golf cart upon a
roadway within the corporate limits of the Town of Monrovia shall have
financial responsibility for said golf cart as defined above and in accordance
with this subchapter and the laws of the State of Indiana.
   (E)   Occupants. The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to
the number of persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on the
golf cart. The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and
no part of the body of the operator, or any occupant shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is being operated. No one under
the age of eight years is allowed to ride on the back seat of the golf cart
unless accompanied by an adult.
   (F)   Compliance with traffic laws and ordinances. All golf carts shall
operate cautiously and courteously, and shall comply with all traffic laws and
ordinances of the town and the State of Indiana.
   (G)   Negligence prohibited. No person shall operate a golf cart in
negligent or reckless manner so as to endanger the person or property of
another or to cause injury or damage thereto.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 71.54 PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall operate a golf cart on any Roadway
within the Town of Monrovia without a Town of Monrovia Golf Cart Permit
("MGCP"). The MGCP must be with the vehicle whenever it is operated on any town
roadway.
   (B)   Permit fee. A permit fee of $15 is required to be submitted with the
application in order for it to be processed and for the issuance of a MGCP.
   (C)   Application for permit. An application for a MGCP may be obtained at
the Monrovia Town Hall or as otherwise directed. The applicant is required to
complete the application and return it as directed by the office of the Clerk
Treasurer, along with proof of financial responsibility, and the permit fee of
$15.
   (D)   Inspection. Prior to the issuance of a MGCP, an officer from the
Monrovia Police Department or a designee selected by the Clerk Treasurer shall
inspect the golf cart to ensure that it complies with all requirements of this
subchapter and laws of the State of Indiana. All requirements on the
application form, as found in this subchapter, must be confirmed during an
inspection, prior to the issuance of a MGCP.
   (E)   Renewal. The MGCP shall be renewed on or before May 1 annually, at
which time the golf cart shall be subject to inspection and a permit fee of $15
shall be required in order to obtain a new MGCP.
   (F)   Disqualification. No MCGCP shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of a violation of this subchapter within the previous 12 months.
   (G)   MCGCP lost or stolen.  If a MGCP is lost or stolen, it shall be the
responsibility of the permit holder to take all necessary action to report and
correct the matter. The Town of Monrovia may, in its discretion, issue a
replacement permit if the vehicle owner verifies that they had a permit
previously. Applicants who are unable to prove the validity of their MGCP will
be required to submit a new application.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 71.55 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Penalties. Any act or omission that results in a failure to comply
with or to maintain compliance with any of the requirements herein constitutes
an ordinance violation and a Class C infraction, in addition to any other
penalty imposed in accordance with Indiana law regulating traffic and use of
public roadways.
   (B)   A person convicted of violating this subchapter shall be subject to a
fine of $50 for each violation. Each day that any of the provisions of this
subchapter is violated constitutes a separate offense and the violator may be
fined an additional $40, plus court costs. All fines and fees shall be made
payable to the town.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 5-24-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-02, Amd. Ord. 1, passed 8-24-
2021)
§ 71.56 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Employees, agents, and officials of the government of the Town of
Monrovia, while engaged in town government business, are exempt from the
application of this subchapter.
   (B)   Parades, festivals and special events. Subject to the discretion of
the Monrovia Town Council or the President of the Monrovia Town Council,
granted to official participants in parades, festivals, and other special
events.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 71.57 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Conflicts and severability. The provisions of this subchapter are
intended to be supplemental to the laws of the State of Indiana, and to the
extent that they may conflict with said laws, the laws of the State of Indiana
shall control and take precedent over this subchapter. Should any provision of
this subchapter be found by a court to be invalid, the remainder of the
subchapter shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   Construction. All terms of this subchapter, unless defined or
otherwise apparent from the context in which they are used, shall be construed
in terms of their plain and ordinary meaning. Masculine terms shall be
construed so as to include the feminine and singular terms shall include the
plural.
   (C)   Repeal and effective date. All ordinances and parts of ordinances in
conflict with this subchapter are hereby repealed and this subchapter shall be
effective upon publication as by law required.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 5-24-2021)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks,
or painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit these acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon the public streets of
the town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon,
for a period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, or devices, or marks, or
the painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping,
standing, or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the
stopping, standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or
where the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere
with the free movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks, or
painting shall be official signs, devices, marks, or painting and no person
shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon
or as indicated thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Means a person who has been issued one
of the following:
      (1)   A placard under I.C. 9-14-5 (before its repeal).
      (2)   A modified Purple Heart plate under I.C. 9-18-19-1(b) (before its
expiration) or I.C. 9-18.5-6-1(b).
      (3)   A disability registration plate under I.C. 9-18-22 (before its
expiration).
      (4)   A license plate or placard issued under I.C. 9-18.5-8.
(I.C. 5-16-9-1(e))
   (B)   Parking prohibited.  
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle, or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person's passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held, prima facie, responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner's expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
SCHEDULE I.   NO PARKING ZONES.
 
Street             Location                                  Side(s)
North Water Street From West Main Street to West Pray Street East
North Water Street 15 feet north of stop sign                West
 
(Ord. 4-2001, passed 2-26-2001)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner
   
90.05   Vehicles in possession of person other than owner
   
90.06   Discovery of vehicle abandoned on private property
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Towing contracts
   
90.10   Liability for loss or damage
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard.
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in any manner as to constitute
a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle traffic on a
public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or the town
upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than this
chapter, if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or
the owner's agent within 20 days of the vehicle's removal; and
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least 3 model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this division, a
vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber, cloth, or
textile covering is considered to be visible.
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, vehicle wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
(I.C. 9-13-2-8)
   BUREAU. Unless otherwise indicated, refers to the state Bureau of Motor
Vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-16)
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council.
(I.C. 9-13-2-63)
   OFFICER.  The Town Marshal, his or her designee, or a member of the Town
Police Department. (I.C. 9-22-1-2)
   OWNER.   
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2) below, means a person,
other than a lienholder, that:
         (a)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft; or
         (b)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a
vehicle, manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile, or watercraft,
through a lease or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
      (2)   OWNER for purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set forth
in 33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121)
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county, or municipal property.
(I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   TOWING SERVICE. A person that engages in moving or removing abandoned or
disabled vehicles and, once the vehicles are moved or removed, stores or
impounds the vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-179)
   VEHICLE. For purposes of I.C. 9-22 (except I.C. 9-22-6) and I.C. 9-32, the
term refers to a vehicle or watercraft of a type that must be registered under
I.C. 9-18-2 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-18.1, other than an off-road
vehicle or a snowmobile under I.C. 9-18-2.5 (before its expiration) or I.C. 9-
18.1-14.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(c))
 
§ 90.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways.
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment.
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot.
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard.
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under I.C. 9-18.5-34, or a
military vehicle registered under I.C. 9-18.1-8.
   (F)   A golf cart.
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1)
§ 90.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle or parts is:
   (A)   Responsible for the abandonment; and
   (B)   Liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and
disposal of the vehicle or the parts under this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4)
§ 90.05 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner of the vehicle and the person cannot establish the right
to possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place determined by the officer.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5)
   (B)   (1)   If the owner or lienholder under division (C) below does not
appear and pay all costs; or
      (2)   The owner of a vehicle cannot be determined by a search conducted
under I.C. 9-22-1-19;
the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed of under this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-7)
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (2), if the properly identified person who
owns or holds a lien on a vehicle appears at the site of storage before
disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all costs relating to a tow, the
storage of the vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, the vehicle or
parts shall be released.
      (2)   A towing service or storage yard may charge an inspection fee to an
owner, a lienholder, or an insurance company representative to inspect a
vehicle or retrieve items from the vehicle. A fee under this division must be
refunded if the costs relating to a tow, the storage of the vehicle, and all
allowable fees, as applicable, are paid under division (1).
      (3)   A towing service or storage yard must accept payment made by any of
the following means from a person seeking to release a vehicle under this
division:
         (a)   Cash.
         (b)   Certified check.
         (c)   Insurance check.
         (d)   Money order.
         A towing service or storage facility may elect to accept payment by
means of a credit card or debit card.
      (4)   Upon receiving payment of all costs relating to a tow, the storage
of a vehicle, and all allowable fees, as applicable, a towing service or
storage yard shall provide to the person making payment an itemized receipt
that includes the information set forth in I.C. 24-14-5, to the extent the
information is known or available.
      (5)   A towing service or storage yard must be open for business and
accessible by telephone during regular office hours. A towing service or
storage yard must provide a telephone number that is available on a 24 hour
basis to receive calls and message from callers, including calls made outside
of regular office hours. All calls made to a towing service or storage yard
must be returned within 24 hours from the time received. However, if adverse
weather, an act of God, or an emergency situation over which the towing service
or storage yard has no control prevents the towing service or storage yard from
returning calls within 24 hours, the towing service or storage yard shall
return all calls received as quickly as possible.
      (6)   A towing service or storage yard shall, if required, notify the
appropriate public agency of all releases under this section. The notification
must include:
         (a)   The name and address of:
            1.   The person that owns or holds a lien on the vehicle; and
            2.   The insurance company that insures the vehicle, if the vehicle
was released to a representative of the insurance company;
         (b)   The signature of the individual to whom the vehicle was
released;
         (c)   A description of the vehicle or parts;
         (d)   Costs paid; and
         (e)   The date of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
§ 90.06 DISCOVERY OF VEHICLE ABANDONED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   A person who finds a vehicle believed to be abandoned on private
property that the person owns or controls, including rental property, may:
         (a)   Obtain the assistance of an officer under I.C. 9-22-1-18 to have
the vehicle removed; or
         (b)   Personally arrange for the removal of the vehicle by complying
with division (A)(2) and division (B) of this section.
    (2)   If the person wishes to personally arrange for the removal of the
vehicle, the person shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing
the following information:
         (a) The date, time, name, and address of the person who owns or
controls the private property and a telephone number to contact for
information.
         (b) That the vehicle is considered abandoned.
         (c) That the vehicle will be removed after 24 hours.
         (d) That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle.
         (e) That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 24 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-15)
   (B)   If after 24 hours the person who owns a vehicle believed to be
abandoned on private property has not removed the vehicle from the private
property, the person who owns or controls the private property on which the
vehicle is believed to be abandoned may have the vehicle towed from the private
property.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(a))
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (B), in an emergency situation a vehicle
believed to be abandoned on private property may be removed immediately. As
used in this subsection, EMERGENCY SITUATION means that the presence of the
vehicle believed to be abandoned interferes physically with the conduct of
normal business operations of the person who owns or controls the private
property or poses a threat to the safety or security of persons or property, or
both.
(I.C. 9-22-1-16(b))
   (D)   A towing service that tows a vehicle under division (C) of this
section shall give notice to the town that the abandoned vehicle is in the
possession of the towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-17)
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer's name, Town Police Department, and address
and telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Thirty-six hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) of this section is
not removed within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written
abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the
condition and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition
of the vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12)
   (C)   (1)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an
abandoned vehicle or parts is less than:
         (a)   One thousand dollars; or
         (b)   In a municipality that has adopted an ordinance under division
(C)(2), the amount established by the ordinance; the towing service shall
immediately transfer the vehicle to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned
vehicle report and photographs, if applicable, relating to the abandoned
vehicle shall be provided to the storage yard. A towing service or storage yard
may dispose of an abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after the date on
which the towing service removed the abandoned vehicle. A city, county, or town
that operates a storage yard under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose of an abandoned
vehicle to an automobile scrapyard or an automotive salvage recycler upon
removal of the abandoned vehicle. The public agency or storage yard disposing
of the vehicle shall retain the original records and photographs for at least 2
years. If the vehicle is demolished, a copy of the abandoned vehicle report
shall be forwarded to the bureau by the automobile scrap yard after the vehicle
has been demolished.
      (2)   The legislative body of a municipality (as defined in I.C. 36-1-2-
11) may adopt an ordinance that establishes the market value below which an
officer may dispose of a vehicle or parts under division (A). However, the
market value established by the ordinance may not be more than $750.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13)
   (D)   (1)   If in the opinion of the officer the market value of the
abandoned vehicle or parts is at least:
         (a)   one thousand dollars; or
         (b)   In a municipality that has adopted an ordinance under division
(C)(2) above, the amount established by the ordinance; the officer, before
placing a notice tag on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to
ascertain the person who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of
the vehicle or parts.
      (2)   After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to
be towed to a storage yard or towing service.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (E)   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that
a vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the
consent of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (D) of this section.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18)
§ 90.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Within three business days after removal of a vehicle to a
storage yard or towing service under §§
90.06, 90.07 or 90.09 of this chapter, I.C. 9-22-6, the town or towing service
shall conduct a search of the National Motor Vehicle Title Information System
or an equivalent and commonly available data base to attempt to obtain the last
state of record of the vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and
address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   The town or towing service that obtains the name and address of the
owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than three business days
after obtaining the name and address, notify the owner of the vehicle and any
lienholder on the vehicle, as indicated by the certificate of title or
discovered by a search under division (A), of the following:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the town or towing
service.
         (b)   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is
subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid.
         (c)   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
      (3)   The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles. Notwithstanding I.C. 9-22-1-4, the town or towing service that fails
to notify the owner of or lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this
division may not collect additional storage costs incurred after the date of
receipt of the name and address obtained.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19)
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle as permitted by state law.
§ 90.09 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property, and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage, and disposition of abandoned
vehicles and parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31)
§ 90.10 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases, or occupies property from which an
abandoned vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and
   (F)   An agent of a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Limitation on keeping certain animals; sanitation
Dogs
   
91.15   Prohibited conduct; owner responsible
   
91.16   Running at large prohibited
   
91.17   Dogs in heat; confinement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, 6 months of age or over, male or
female.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 91.02 LIMITATION ON KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; SANITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to have or keep any goats, sheep, swine or pigs,
horses, mules, ponies, cattle, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
guineas, or other farm animals or fowl within 200 feet of any residence, other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having these animals.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is, or may be, kept to become unsanitary.
Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 91.15 PROHIBITED CONDUCT; OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to exercise proper care and
control of his or her dog or dogs so as to prevent the following actions by it
or them:
   (A)   Molesting of passersby;
   (B)   Chasing of passing vehicles;
   (C)   Attacking other domestic animals;
   (D)   Trespassing upon private property or school property;
   (E)   Damaging private or public property;
   (F)   Habitual barking or loud and continued noise; or
   (G)   Unnecessary foul or noxious odors which offend people in the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.16 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to run at large within the corporate
limits of the town. Any dog running at large within the town shall be
impounded.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.17 DOGS IN HEAT; CONFINEMENT.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in any manner that the dog cannot come into contact with another dog except for
planned breeding.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Weeds
   
92.01   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.02   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.03   Filing complaint
   
92.04   Notice of violations
   
92.05   Appeals
   
92.06   Abatement by town
   
92.07   Liability
 
   
92.99   Penalty
WEEDS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the enforcement authority on the
property owner of the ordinance violation.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The town executive, or in cases of appeal, the
Town Council.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, like a right-of-
way, easement, license or lease.
      RANK VEGETATION. The uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals and
perennial plants.
      WEEDS, GRASSES. Includes Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass,
sorghum, alum [i.e., allium], bur cucumber, and shattercane, but shall not
include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the enforcement authority with respect to the
definition of exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants and crops.
§ 92.02 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in excess of 10
inches in average height, and in no event, exceeds 15 inches maximum height on
at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
§ 92.03 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this division, shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an
employee, officer, or Council member of the town shall file the complaint in
all respects as set out above.
§ 92.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this division, a person designated by the enforcement authority shall make
an inspection and prepare a written report to the enforcement authority
regarding the condition. The enforcement authority, upon concluding that there
is a probable belief that this division has been violated, shall forward
written notification in the form of a destruction order, to the property owner
and/or the person occupying the property, as that information is contained
within the records of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or any other town agency. The
notice shall be served in writing by certified mail. The notice shall provide
that within 7 calendar days after the receipt of the notice that the designated
violation shall be removed by the property owner and/or person occupying the
property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 92.05 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the enforcement authority within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the
enforcement authority. It is the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate
that the matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is
not otherwise in violation of this division, and should not be subject to
destruction under the division.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance and them being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the
Town Council.
§ 92.06 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within 7 calendar days and has not filed a notice within 48
hours to the Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the enforcement authority
may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and remove the
weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
§ 92.07 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, if the owner of real
property fails to pay a bill issued under I.C. 36-7-10.1-3 within the time
specified in the ordinance, the department specified in the ordinance shall
certify to the County Auditor the amount of the bill, plus any additional
administrative costs incurred in the certification. The Auditor shall place the
total amount certified on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the
total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent
taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the general fund of the
municipality or county.
   (B)   If the owner of real property fails to pay a bill issued under I.C.
36-7-10.1-3 within the time specified in the ordinance, the municipality or
county may bring an action in an appropriate court to collect the amount of the
bill, plus any additional costs incurred in the collection, including court
costs and reasonable attorney's fees. If the municipality or county obtains a
judgment under this division (B), the municipality or county may obtain a lien
in the amount of the judgment on any real or personal property of the owner.
(I.C. 36-7-10.1-4)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord 3-1998, passed 3-9-1998)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and any other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee to satisfactorily fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without
notice to make any fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate town fund, except any part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the town
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 93.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way, shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season, shall install and maintain at
least 2 illuminated red lamps, which shall be securely and conspicuously posted
on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the space
involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least 1 additional lamp for each added
50 feet, or portion thereof, excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding 1 year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall faithfully perform the work. The Mayor, if authorized by Town Council,
may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with different
parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential real estate related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in provision of brokerage services
   
94.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Exemptions
   
94.10   Administrative enforcement
§ 94.01 POLICY.
   It shall be in the policy of the Town of Monrovia to provide, within
constitutional limitation, fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C.
22-9.5-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that that person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4) (Ord. 1-1998, passed 2-23-1998)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits 1 or
more of that person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined, pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under state law.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does the
term DISABILITY include an individual solely because that individual is a
transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04 through
94.08, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure, that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for, occupancy as a residence by 1 or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure, that is occupied as, or designed or intended for, occupancy as a
residence by 1 or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with a parent, or another person having legal custody
of that individual, or the written permission of the parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of familial
status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. A single individual with the status of that family being further
defined in FAMILIAL STATUS above.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, jointstock
companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases
under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration, the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
Editor’s Note:
   I.C. 22-9.5-2-10, upon which §
94.02 is based in part, was repealed by Pub. Law 99, § 224, 2007.
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
94.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
94.04, shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than 3 single-family houses at any 1
time; provided that in the sale of any single-family house by a private
individual, owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who was not
the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption shall
apply only to 1 sale within any 24-month period. The private individual owner
may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his or her behalf,
title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or
rental of more than 3 single-family houses at any 1 time. The sale or rental of
any single-family house shall be excepted from application of this section,
only if the house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any broker, agent or salesperson, or person; or
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than 4 families living independently of each
other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies 1 of the living quarters as
his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in 3 or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in 2 or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, 5 or more families.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03, and except as exempted by §§
94.03(B) and
94.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination, based on race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial
status or national origin, or an intention to make any preference, limitation,
or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin, that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce, or attempt to induce, any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry, or perspective entry,
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin; and/or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with any dwelling, because of a disability of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this subsection, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
that person if the modifications may be necessary to afford that person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when the accommodations may be necessary to afford that
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings, for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in any
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into, and within all
premises within the dwellings, are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms so that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
         (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq. and of the American
National Standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically disabled people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (F)(3)(c)3.
         (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available the transaction, or in the
terms or conditions of the transaction, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or familial
status.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership, or
participation, in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of the access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
94.03 through
94.06.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 94.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
that person or any other person, or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in the Americans
with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage a citizen, or any other citizen, from lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined not more than $1,000,
or imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both; and if bodily injury results shall
be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or
both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of
years or for life.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 94.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this ordinance shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to those persons,
unless membership in that religion is restricted on account of race, color or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program); or
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least 1 person 55
years of age or older per unit.
§ 94.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below hereof shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the
Town of Monrovia, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Town of
Monrovia, Indiana, because of a lack of financial and other resources necessary
to fully administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under
this chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission (Commission) for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief
Elected Officer of the Town of Monrovia, Indiana, shall refer all complaints to
the Commission as provided for under division (A) above to the Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the Town of Monrovia,
Indiana, shall administer their departments, programs and activities relating
to housing and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the
purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer
and the Commission to further the purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Officer of the Town of Monrovia, Indiana, or the
Chief Executive Officer's designee, shall provide information on remedies
available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting that information.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 2-23-1998)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Golf cart usage during Monrovia Festival
§ 95.01 GOLF CART USAGE DURING MONROVIA FESTIVAL.
   (A)   All persons and/or groups who wish to use a golf cart(s) during the
Monrovia Festival shall be required to obtain a permit from the Town Clerk-
Treasurer prior to the use. Permits shall be readily available at the Monrovia
Municipal Center by filling out a form listing the owner of the cart, its
intended use, and signing a release of liability form. Permits may be obtained
during regular business hours, but must be obtained no later than the Wednesday
prior to the beginning of the Festival.
   (B)   Anyone operating a golf cart without having obtained the permit shall
be subject to a fine not exceeding $100, and shall be asked to remove the cart
from the street immediately.
(Ord. 13-1997, passed 8-25-1997)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for 5 years next preceding the date
of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Any other information concerning the applicant and his or her
business as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the
license desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless an investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, or general welfare. Tangible
evidence of any of the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval
of an application:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
      (6)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees, irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than 1 year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee, of any misdemeanor ; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in any way
as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the
public.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to that person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to that
person by mail at his or her last know address, at least 10 days prior to the
date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking,
or attempting to take, orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future,
or for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is
not a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in any activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of that individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of that individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which that individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom those goods are manufactured or
grown, and where those goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as that representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than 10 days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless an investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, or general
welfare. In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least 10 days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor, involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in any way
as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of
the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to that person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to that
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than 1 place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words Licensed
Peddler or Licensed Solicitor, the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during all
times as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately 3 inches by 4 inches in
size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
      NO SOLICITORS INVITED
   (B)   The letters shall be at least 1/3-inch in height. For the purpose of
uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to persons
requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located, to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states NO SOLICITORS INVITED, then the solicitor, whether
registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of that residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Liquor served by the drink
§ 112.01 LIQUOR SERVED BY THE DRINK.
   (A)   An enabling ordinance is now approved allowing liquor and other
alcoholic beverages to be served within the corporate limits of the Town of
Monrovia by the drink.
   (B)   Anyone serving liquor or other alcoholic beverages by the drink within
the corporate limits must have the proper authority and license granted by the
Alcoholic Beverage Commission and be in compliance with other state, federal
and local laws through the proper permit and licensing requirements.
(Ord. 1-1996, passed 3-18-1996)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Curfew for Minors
   
130.01   Curfew established
   
130.02   (Reserved)
   
130.03   Enforcement against juveniles
   
130.04   Enforcement against parents
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.01 CURFEW ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
and
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
(I.C. 31-37-3-2(a))
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child less than 15 years of age to be
in a public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(I.C. 31-37-3-3(a))
   (C)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated this section; and
      (2)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
(I.C. 31-37-3-2-(b); 31-37-3-3(b)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 (RESERVED).
§ 130.03 ENFORCEMENT AGAINST JUVENILES.
   The town shall report all curfew violations to the County Juvenile Officer
for processing under appropriate juvenile law.
§ 130.04 ENFORCEMENT AGAINST PARENTS.
   A parent, guardian or custodian of a child who permits or causes a child to
be in a public place during curfew hours in violation of §
130.01 shall punished as provided in §
130.99.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   A parent, guardian or custodian of a child who violates §
130.01 shall be fined $50 for each violation.
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
Firearms on Town Property
   
131.01   Prohibition
   
131.02   Signs required
   
131.03   Exemptions
Statutory reference:
   Local authority to regulate firearms on town property, see I.C. 35-47-11-2
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 131.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building, or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the
general public can access the building, appurtenant premise, or park. The town
shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity and appropriate location
for other signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant premise, or
park.
§ 131.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to persons
who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or federal law
or to any duly authorized local, state, or federal law enforcement officer
while on duty.
   (B)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to highways
or public highways owned or administered by the town.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   STORM DRAINAGE, EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Plan Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals
   
150.01   Creation
   
150.02   Terms of members
   
150.03   Vacancies
   
150.04   Powers and duties
   
150.05   Conflicts of interest
   
150.06   Quorum
PLAN COMMISSION AND BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 150.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Plan Commission and a Board of Zoning Appeals
(BZA) for the Town of Monrovia. The Plan Commission shall consist of 7 members,
3 of whom shall be appointed, elected officials in the town government or
employees of the town, and 4 of whom shall be citizen members, no 2 of which
may be of the same political party. The BZA shall consist of 5 members, of
which 3 citizen members shall be appointed by the President of the Town
Council, 1 of whom shall be a member of the Plan Commission; 1 citizen member
shall be appointed by the Town Council and must not be a member of the Plan
Commission; 1 citizen member appointed by the Plan Commission who must be a
member of the Plan Commission other than the appointee already appointed by the
President. All members must be residents of the Town of Monrovia.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-25-1996)
§ 150.02 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Two citizen members of the Planning Commission shall initially be
appointed for a term of 3 years and 2 citizen members shall be appointed for a
term of 4 years. When an initial term expires, each new appointment shall be
for a term of 4 years. The term of each citizen member shall expire on the
first Monday of January of the third or fourth year, as the case may be, after
the year of the member's
appointment. An elected official's term shall be coextensive with the member's
term of office, unless the Town Council, at its first regular meeting in any
year, appoints another elected official as a replacement.
   (B)   Members of the BZA shall initially be appointed for the following
terms of office:
      (1)   One member for a term of 1 year;
      (2)   One member for a term of 2 years;
      (3)   One member for a term of 3 years; and
      (4)   One member for a term of 4 years.
   (C)   When an initial term expires, each new appointment shall be for a term
of 4 years. The term of each citizen member shall expire on the first Monday of
January of the second, third or fourth year, as the case may be, after the year
of the member's appointment.
(Ord. 5-1996, passed 11-11-1996)
§ 150.03 VACANCIES.
   If a vacancy occurs among any citizen member of the Plan Commission of BZA,
the President of the Town Council shall appoint a member for the unexpired
term. If a vacancy occurs among any elected member of the Plan Commission of
BZA, the President of the Town Council shall appoint an elected member for the
unexpired term.
(Ord. 5-1996, passed 11-11-1996)
§ 150.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission and BZA shall perform all of the duties and
responsibilities required of an advisory planning commission or BZA,
respectively, by the statutes of the State of Indiana, as well as those duties
assigned to it by written order or resolution of the Town Council.
(Ord. 5-1996, passed 11-11-1996)
§ 150.05 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No member may participate in a hearing or decision concerning a matter in
which he or she has a direct or indirect financial interest.
(Ord. 5-1996, passed 11-11-1996)
§ 150.06 QUORUM.
   A quorum consists of a majority of the entire membership of the Plan
Commission or BZA, whichever the case may be, and any action of either is not
official unless a quorum exists, and it is authorized by a majority of votes.
(Ord. 5-1996, passed 11-11-1996)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Unsafe Buildings
   
151.01   Establishment
   
151.02   State law to govern
   
151.03   Administration and enforcement
   
151.04   Unsafe buildings declared a public nuisance
   
151.05   Powers of enforcement officials
   
151.06   Definitions supplemented by specific minimum standards
   
151.07   Work to be done in accordance with accepted standards
   
151.08   Unsafe Building Fund established
Building Code
   
151.15   Title
   
151.16   Purpose
   
151.17   Authority
   
151.18   Scope
   
151.19   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.20   Permits; application, work, fees and review
   
151.21   Inspections; assistance; entry
   
151.22   Stop order
   
151.23   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.24   Workmanship
   
151.25   Violations
   
151.26   Right of appeal
   
151.27   Remedies
   
151.28   Effective date
Building Commissioner, Building Code Official, and Inspector Conflict-of-
Interest Rules
   
151.35   Restrictions
   
151.36   Definitions
   
151.37   Conflict of interest
   
151.38   Filing reports
   
151.39   References
 
   
151.99   Penalty
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. and all amendments thereto,
there is hereby established the Monrovia Unsafe Building Ordinance, an
ordinance for maintenance and repair of vacant structures.
(Ord. 05-2016, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 151.02 STATE LAW TO GOVERN.
   I.C. 36-7-9 et seq. is hereby adopted by and referenced as the town’s Unsafe
Building Ordinance and Vacant Structure Maintenance and Repair Ordinance.
Proceedings under this subchapter within the town providing for the inspection,
repair, maintenance and removal of unsafe buildings and other vacant structures
shall be governed by the aforementioned Indiana Code and all amendments to said
Code along with the specific provisions set out in this subchapter. In the
event of direct conflict between the provisions of this subchapter and I.C. 36-
7-9 et seq. and any amendment thereto, the provisions of the Indiana Statutes
shall be controlling.
(Ord. 05-2016, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 151.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   This section generally states the definitions of I.C. 36-7-9-2 and shall
incorporate by reference any amendment to that Indiana Code cite.
   (A)   The Town Council designates the Building Inspector’s Office as the
“Executive Department” authorized to administer this chapter. The Head Building
Inspector shall be the “Enforcement Authority” designated as the Chief
Administrative Officer.
   (B)   The “Hearing Authority” shall be the Monrovia Plan Commission.
   (C)   The definition of “substantial property interest” means any right in
real property that may be effected in a substantial way by actions authorized
by this chapter, including a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future
interest, a present possessory interest or an equitable interest of a contract
purchaser. In a town, the interest reflected by a deed, lease, license,
mortgage, land sale contract or lien is not a substantial property interest
unless the deed, lease, license, mortgage, land sale contract, lien or evidence
of it is:
      (1)   Recorded in the Office of the County Recorder; or
      (2)   The subject of a written information that is received by the
Division of Development Services and includes the name and address of the
holder of the interest described.
   (D)   The definition of “person” shall mean any person, corporation,
partnership or other business entity including an owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant.
(Ord. 05-2016, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 151.04 UNSAFE BUILDINGS DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined to be
unsafe as defined in this subchapter are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and shall be, after proper notice, be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition, removal, sealing or other appropriate maintenance
as set out in said order of the enforcement authority or order of the hearing
authority.
(Ord. 05-2016, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 151.05 POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   Any enforcement of this subchapter that states certain work shall be done
subject to the approval of or the direction of the Building Inspector, or any
other officer of the town, shall be construed to give such officer only the
discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by this
subchapter or codes of the State of Indiana have been complied with; and no
such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers
as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power to require conditions
not prescribed by ordinance or state statute or state building standards or to
enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Ord. 05-2016, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 151.06 DEFINITIONS SUPPLEMENTED BY SPECIFIC MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The definition of unsafe buildings and unsafe premises described in
I.C. 36-7-9-4 and all amendments thereto is hereby supplemented to provide more
specific minimum standards for building conditions or maintenance in the town
for the purpose of giving more specific standards to I.C. 36-7-9-4(a)(l)-(6)
and when a violation is cited the Indiana Code number shall be specified along
with the more specific itemized violations set out in this subchapter.
   (B)   Specific standards are as follows:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in the case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons
or damage property;
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (6)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction.
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, is
likely to partially or completely collapse because of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause.
      (8)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (9)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (10)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the town or of any law or ordinance of the State of Indiana or the town
relating to the condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinance has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, heights and
occupancy in the same location;
      (14)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction arrangements, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities or otherwise, is determined by the Health Official to be unsanitary
or unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that it is likely to cause
sickness or disease.
      (15)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, heating apparatus or other cause is determined by the Fire
Official to be a fire hazard; or
      (16)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of one month so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Ord. 05-2016, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 151.07 WORK TO BE DONE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ACCEPTED STANDARDS.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in trade. The provisions of
the rules pertaining to construction, plumbing, electrical, mechanical and one-
and two-family dwellings, promulgated by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission shall be considered standard and acceptable practice for all
matters covered by this subchapter or others issued pursuant to this subchapter
by the Building Inspector of the town.
(Ord. 05-2016, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 151.08 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND ESTABLISHED.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 05-2016, passed 10-3-2016)
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.15 TITLE.
   There is hereby created a set of rules and regulations entitled Monrovia
Building Code as follows.
(Ord. 7-1997, passed 4-28-1997)
§ 151.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
§ 151.17 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this code. Whenever in this code, it is
provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the
direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of the town, this
shall be construed to give the officer only the discretion of determining
whether this code has been complied with; and no provision shall be construed
as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what this code shall be, or
power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to enforce this
code in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner. Any variance from adopted
building rules are subject to approval under I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
§ 151.18 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alteration, repair,
use, occupancy, and addition to all buildings and structures, other than
industrial building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-15-4-
2, in the Town of Monrovia and its planning area.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
§ 151.19 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following Articles of Title 675 of the Indiana
Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in this code and shall
include later amendments to those articles as the same are published in the
Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 12 - General Administrative Rules;
      (2)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   Indiana Building Code;
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility.
      (3)   Article 14 - One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code; Indiana One- and
Two-Family Dwelling Code;
      (4)   Article 16- Plumbing Code;
      (5)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (6)   Article 18 - Mechanical Code Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (7)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Code; and
      (8)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Code; Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of Adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the Monrovia Planning and Zoning Commission in the Monrovia
Municipal Center.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
§ 151.20 PERMITS; APPLICATION, WORK, FEES AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Application for permits. No building permit shall be issued for the
foregoing purposes, unless the application for a permit is accompanied by a
plat or sketch of the proposed location showing lot boundaries, and by plans
and specifications showing the work to be done. In addition, a copy of a design
release, issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1, shall be provided to the Building Commissioner
before issuance of a permit for construction covered by the design release.
   (B)   Permit required. A permit shall be obtained before the beginning of
construction, alteration or repair of any building or structure, the cost of
which exceeds $100, using forms furnished by the Building Commissioner, and all
fees required by this code shall be paid to the Plan Commissioner
Administrator.
   (C)   Other ordinances. All work done under any permit shall be in full
compliance with all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the
fees for permits, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in these ordinances.
   (D)   Fees. The fees outlined in the city’s building code are hereby adopted
by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
   (E)   Review of application. Prior to the issuance of any building permit,
the Building Commissioner shall:
      (1)   Review all building permit applications to determine full
compliance with the provisions of this code;
      (2)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
flood plain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
         (a)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage, and
         (b)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (4)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the flood plain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
         (a)   Is protected against flood damage;
         (b)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
         (c)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997; Am. Ord. passed 6-12-2006)
§ 151.21 INSPECTIONS; ASSISTANCE; ENTRY.
   (A)   Inspections. After the issuance of any building permit, the Building
Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work
being done as are necessary to insure full compliance with the provisions of
this code and the terms of the permit. Reinspections of work found to be
incomplete or not ready for inspection are subject to assessment of
reinspection fees as prescribed in this code.
   (B)   Inspection assistance. The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her
designated representative, shall assist the Building Commissioner in the
inspection of fire suppression, detection and alarm systems, and shall provide
reports of these inspections to the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   Entry. Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building
Commissioner or his or her duly authorized representatives may enter at
reasonable times any building, structure or premises in the Town of Monrovia,
or within its planning area, to perform any duty imposed upon him or her by
this code.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
§ 151.22 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any persons engaged in the doing or causing the work to be done, and any
persons shall forewith stop the work until authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
§ 151.23 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure constructed after
the adoption of this code shall be issued unless the building or structure was
constructed in compliance with the provisions of this code. It shall be
unlawful to occupy any such building or structure unless a full, partial, or
temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building
Commissioner.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
§ 151.24 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration unit repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
§ 151.25 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether the owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences in the Town of Monrovia and its Planning Area,
or cause or permit, the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the
provisions of this code.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
§ 151.26 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal any order of the Building
Commissioner first through the Town Council of Monrovia and then to the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
§ 151.27 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the Town of Monrovia, bring
actions in the Superior or Circuit courts of Morgan County, Indiana, for
mandatory and injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance
with any order or orders made by the Building Commissioner, and any action for
mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the
penalties provided for in this code.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
§ 151.28 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This code shall be in full force and effect from and after its adoption,
approval by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana, and
publication as required by law.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
BUILDING COMMISSIONER, BUILDING CODE OFFICIAL, AND
INSPECTOR CONFLICT-OF-INTEREST RULES
§ 151.35 RESTRICTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to restrict the Town Council,
the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Plan Commission, or any related Committee in
the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 151.36 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever the following terms are used in this subchapter, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. A direct or indirect financial interest in the
issuance of a permit.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-1109. At the time of
adoption of this subchapter, it means:
      (1)   An improvement location permit;
      (2)   A building permit;
      (3)   A certificate of occupancy;
      (4)   Approval of a site-specific development plan;
      (5)   Approval of a primary or secondary plat;
      (6)   Approval of a contingent use, conditional use, special exception or
special use; or
      (7)   Approval of a planned unit development.
   REPORT. A written identification of the affected permit application and
disclosure of the conflict of interest involved, signed and dated by the
author.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 151.37 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D), whenever the building inspector
has a conflict of interest in the issuance of a permit:
      (1)   The building inspector shall recuse himself or herself from the
permitting process;
      (2)   The building inspector shall file a report of the conflict of
interest with the Clerk-Treasurer of Monrovia;
      (3)   The building inspector shall deliver all related files to the plan
administrator; and
      (4)   The plan administrator shall oversee the issuance of the permit.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D), whenever the plan administrator
has a conflict of interest in the issuance of a permit:
      (1)   The plan administrator shall recuse himself or herself from the
permitting process;
      (2)   The plan administrator shall file a report of the conflict of
interest with the Clerk-Treasurer of Monrovia;
      (3)   The plan administrator shall deliver all related files to the
Building Commissioner; and
      (4)   The building inspector shall oversee the issuance of the permit.
   (C)   Whenever a building code official or inspector other than the building
inspector or plan administrator has a conflict of interest in the issuance of a
permit:
      (1)   Such person shall recuse himself or herself from the permitting
process;
      (2)   Such person shall notify his or her department head or the town
Clerk-Treasurer of the conflict of interest.
   (D)   Whenever the building inspector or the plan administrator is
authorized to oversee the permitting process pursuant to this subchapter but is
unavailable or unqualified:
      (1)   Such person shall recuse himself or herself from the permitting
process;
      (2)   Such person shall file a report of a conflict of interest with the
Clerk-Treasurer of Monrovia, if applicable;
      (3)   The Council shall appoint a temporary replacement to oversee the
permit; and
      (4)   All related files shall be delivered to the appointed temporary
replacement.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 151.38 FILING REPORTS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of Monrovia shall place reports received pursuant to
this subchapter in a separate ethics file and maintain them for at least five
years.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 151.39 REFERENCES.
   Except where a specific version or edition is given, reference to another
section of this subchapter or to a law, document, fund, program, department,
commission, employee, or public office, shall extend and apply to the same, as
may be subsequently amended, elected, appointed, revised, recodified, renamed,
or renumbered from time to time.
(Ord. 02-2019, passed 8-26-2019)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of
this code, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of this code for
each violation, failure or refusal, the person, firm or corporation shall be
fined in any sum not less than $25, nor more than what the law allows. Each day
of the lawful activity as is prohibited by the first sentence of this section
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-5-1997)
CHAPTER 152: STORM DRAINAGE, EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Applicability
   
152.004   Conflicting ordinances
   
152.005   Reservation and appeal
   
152.006   Saving provision
   
152.007   Policy
   
152.008   Permits for construction in a floodway
   
152.009   Wetlands
   
152.010   Establishment of a legal drain
   
152.011   Adequate drainage outlets
   
152.012   Compliance with state law
   
152.013   Compliance in general
   
152.014   Definitions
   
152.015   Effective date
Plan Procedures
   
152.025   Information requirements
   
152.026   Site plan requirements
   
152.027   Submittal and consideration of plans
   
152.028   Determination of runoff quantities
   
152.029   Amount of runoff to be accommodated by various parts of drainage
facility
   
152.030   Drainage easements
Storm Sewer Design Standards
   
152.045   Conformance
   
152.046   Hydraulic capacity
   
152.047   Minimum size
   
152.048   Grade
   
152.049   Alignment
   
152.050   Manholes
   
152.051   Inlets
   
152.052   Workmanship
   
152.053   Materials
   
152.054   Backfill requirement
   
152.055   Special hydraulic structures
Open Channel Design Standards
   
152.070   Conformance
   
152.071   Channel cross section and grade
   
152.072   Side slopes
   
152.073   Channel stability
   
152.074   Drainage of open channels
   
152.075   Backyard swales
   
152.076   Appurtenance structures
   
152.077   Disposition of spoil material
   
152.078   Materials
Storm Water Retention
   
152.090   Governance
   
152.091   Acceptable detention methods
   
152.092   Detention facility design
   
152.093   Allocation of detention
   
152.094   Determination of storage volume
   
152.095   General detention basin design requirements
   
152.096   Dry bottom design requirements
   
152.097   Wet bottom basin design requirements
   
152.098   Rooftop storage
   
152.099   Parking lot storage
   
152.100   Facility maintenance responsibility
   
152.101   Joint development of control systems
   
152.102   Allowance for sedimentation
   
152.103   Detention facilities in a floodplain
Soil Erosion and Sediment Control
   
152.115   General provisions
   
152.116   Design criteria, standards and the like
   
152.117   Maintenance of erosion control measures
   
152.118   Control of erosion and sediment during land disturbing activities
Accessory Drains
   
152.130   Sump pumps
   
152.131   Down spouts
   
152.132   Footing drains
   
152.133   Basement floor drains
   
152.134   Other information
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.145   Certification required
   
152.146   Changes in plan
   
152.147   Determination of impact drainage areas
   
152.148   Disclaimer of liability
   
152.149   Corrective action
   
152.150   Exempt projects
   
152.151   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referenced to as the Storm
Drainage, Erosion, and Sediment Control Ordinance of the Town of Monrovia,
Indiana and shall hereafter be referred to as this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to reduce the hazard to public health and
safety caused by excessive storm water runoff and erosion; to reduce the
economic hardships caused by excessive storm water runoff and erosion; and to
protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources within the regulated area
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all development which requires the Town of
Monrovia improvement location permits and official review and approval of any
Town of Monrovia agencies.
   (B)   Projects that require only individual improvement location permits for
a single-family dwelling, a 2-family dwelling, or their accessory structures
are not subject to these requirements.
   (C)   Minor subdivisions that do not require off-site drainage easements and
do not increase either the runoff or release rates, in the opinion of the Plan
Commission staff, are exempt from seeking Plan Commission approval. However, if
in the watershed of an existing legal drain, the developer must petition the
Morgan County Drainage Board to establish a maintenance fund assessment. In
these cases, the Drainage, Erosion, and Sediment Control Plan will be reviewed
by the Plan Commission staff. All other requirements of this chapter shall
apply to the above-referenced minor subdivisions.
   (D)   It is further recognized that land disturbing activities may cause
soil loss, siltation, and degradation of natural resources. The erosion control
standards of this chapter are applicable to all land disturbing activities that
are necessary for any development regulated by this chapter. Typical
agricultural uses are exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.004 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional requirements to
minimum standards required by other ordinances of the town. In the case of
conflicting requirements, the most restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.005 RESERVATION AND APPEAL.
   Upon the adoption of these regulations prescribed by I.C. 36-7-4-701, the
Storm Drainage, Erosion, and Sediment Control Ordinance of Monrovia, Indiana,
adopted February 10, 1997, as amended, is hereby repealed.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.006 SAVING PROVISION.
   These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing regulations, or as discontinuing,
abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue, or as
affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or as waiving any
right
of the Town Council under any section or provision existing at the time of
adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or annulling any right obtained
by any person, firm or corporation, by lawful action of the town except as
shall be expressly provided for in these regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.007 POLICY.
   (A)   It is recognized that streams and drainage channels serving the Town
of Monrovia may not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey storm water
runoff resulting when land use changed from underdeveloped or agricultural use
to a more urbanized use. It is further recognized that deposits of sediment
from developments during and after construction can reduce capacities of storm
sewers and drainage systems and result in damages to receiving lakes and
streams.
   (B)   Therefore, it shall be the policy of the Town of Monrovia Plan
Commission that the storage and controlled release of storm water runoff shall
be required of all new development except as exempted in §
152.003, and redevelopment, certain other new construction in the Town of
Monrovia. The storm water release rate of a 100-year storm event from
development, redevelopment, and certain new construction shall not exceed the
storm water runoff from a 10-year storm event from the land area prior to the
new development, redevelopment, or certain new construction or the capacity of
its drainage outlet, whichever is more restrictive. There are certain
circumstances where detention is not justified or may be detrimental to the
overall drainage basin. The Plan Commission may waive detention requirements in
these cases. Open ditches with side slopes steeper than 3:1 are not allowed. No
open ditch shall be greater than 3 feet deep.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.008 PERMITS FOR CONSTRUCTION IN A FLOODWAY.
   (A)   The 1945 Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1) of the State of Indiana
prohibits the construction of abodes or residences in or on a floodway. Prior
approval of Department of Natural Resources is required for any type of
construction, excavation, or filling in or on a floodway. All projects must
also comply with the requirements of the Town of Monrovia flood ordinances,
when adopted.
   (B)   All applications made to and granted approval by the Department of
Natural Resources or US Army Corps of Engineers, do not in any way relieve the
owner of the necessity of securing easements or other property rights, permits
or approvals from affected property owners and local, state, and federal
agencies.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.009 WETLANDS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of landowners or developers to notify
and make application to all appropriate state and federal agencies with
authority for wetland protection. In cases where federal or state
jurisdictional wetlands have been determined to exist, the wetland areas and
boundaries shall be indicated on preliminary and final drainage plans.
   (B)   The Commission will not make determinations of the accuracy of
delineation nor extent of jurisdictional wetlands. Approvals required by this
chapter may be deferred until wetland-related approvals have been obtained.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.010 ESTABLISHMENT OF A LEGAL DRAIN.
   When the Commission determines it is necessary to establish a legal drain,
each developer must provide the necessary information and meet the requirements
of the 1965 Indiana Drainage Code, as amended, for the establishment of a legal
drain. The Commission shall determine the necessary easements for adequate
maintenance of any legal drain. This will generally be 75 feet on either side
of the centerline of the legal drain.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.011 ADEQUATE DRAINAGE OUTLETS.
   (A)   All projects subject to this chapter must provide drainage outlets
whose adequacy is based upon the following standards:
      (1)   Use of the outlet will not increase the velocity or rate of outflow
above that allowed by this chapter;
      (2)   The outlet shall be approved by all involved regulatory agencies
including the Commission; and
      (3)   Use of the outlet will not cause hardship or compound existing
problems.
   (B)   The following outlets will generally not be deemed to be adequate:
      (1)   An outlet that is not legally and physically accessible and
maintainable;
      (2)   Overland flow which is not a watercourse as defined by this
chapter;
      (3)   Existing or future town gutters or roadside ditches;
      (4)   Agricultural field tiles for surface water; and
      (5)   Railroad side ditches without adequate improvements.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.012 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   All land disturbing activities that disturb ½ acres or more in total must
comply with 327 I.A.C. 15-5 (Rule 5) Storm Water Runoff Associated With
Construction Activity. It shall be the responsibility of the landowners or
developers to determine if this rule applies to their project. The Commission
will make no determination of the applicability of this rule to individual
projects. Copies of Notice of Intent (NOI) Letters shall also be filed with the
Town of Monrovia Engineer's Office prior to the land disturbing activity.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.013 COMPLIANCE IN GENERAL.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with the
requirements set forth in other applicable ordinances with respect to
submission and approval of primary and secondary subdivisions, site plan
review, improvement plans, building and zoning permits, construction
inspections, appeals, and similar matters and compliance with applicable State
of Indiana statutes and regulations shall be required.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.014 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation of terms or words. For the purpose of this chapter,
certain terms or words are defined. The words and terms used shall be
interpreted as follows:
      (1)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation, or other legal entity, as well as an
individual;
      (2)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular;
      (3)   The word SHALL is a mandatory requirement; the word MAY is a
permissive requirement; the word SHOULD is a preferred requirement;
      (4)   The words USED or OCCUPIED include the words INTENDED, DESIGNED,
CONSTRUCTED, CONVERTED, ALTERED, or ARRANGED TO BE USED OR OCCUPIED;
      (5)   The word LOT includes the word TRACT, PLOT or PARCEL; and
      (6)   Any word or term not defined herein shall be given a meaning found
in a standard English dictionary.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
      ADMINISTERING AUTHORITY. The Plan Commission of the Town of Monrovia,
Indiana.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND USE. Use of land for the production of animal or plant
life including forestry, pasturing or yarding livestock and planting, growing,
cultivating, and harvesting crops for human or livestock consumption.
      CAPACITY OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY. The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
      CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse which periodically or
continuously contains moving water or which forms a connecting link between 2
bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to confine the
water.
      COMMERCIAL LAND USE. Use of land for the manufacturing, wholesale or
retail sale of goods or services.
      COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of the Town of Monrovia, Indiana.
      COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificial volume of storage within a floodplain
used to balance the loss of natural flood storage capacity when artificial fill
or structures are placed within the floodplain.
      CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
      CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the passage of surface drainage water
under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
      DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the
runoff of storm water to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain for a
specified period of time the excess waters that accumulate upstream from the
outlet.
      DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining or storage of storm water in
storage basins, under predetermined and controlled condition.
      DRAINAGE AREA. The area from which water drains to a point of
consideration.
      DROP MANHOLE. A manhole having a vertical drop pipe connecting the inlet
pipe to the elevation of the outlet pipe. The vertical drop pipe shall normally
be located immediately outside the manhole.
      DRY BOTTOM DETENTION BASIN. A basin designed to be completely dewatered
after having provided its planned detention of runoff during a storm event.
      EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment or rock fragments
by water, wind, ice or gravity.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or a combination of
practices to control erosion and resulting off-site sedimentation.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A written description and drawings of
pertinent information concerning erosion and sediment control measures designed
to meet the requirements of this chapter.
      FLOOD or FLOODWATER. Water which overflows the banks of a lake or
watercourse.
      FLOOD ELEVATION. The maximum level of high waters for a flood of given
return period and rainfall duration.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Any floodplain, floodway, floodway fringe, or any
combination which is subject to inundation by the regulatory flood or any
floodplain as delineated by Zone A on the current Flood Hazard Boundary Map of
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. An elevation which is a specific distance above
the regulatory flood elevation as established by agencies having jurisdiction.
      FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining the river or stream which has been or may
be covered by floodwaters. It consists of both the floodway and floodway
fringe.
      FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
      FOOTING DRAIN. A drainpipe installed around thee exterior of abasement
wall or foundation or located in a crawl space to prevent water from entering a
basement or crawl space.
      GRADIENT. The inclination or slope of a channel, conduit or natural
ground surface, expressed as a ratio of the vertical rise or fall to the
corresponding horizontal distance.
      IMPACT AREAS. Areas defined by the Commission which are unlikely to be
easily drained because of 1 or more factors including, but not limited to, any
of the following: Soil type; topography; land where there is not an adequate
outlet; a floodway or floodplain; land within 75 feet of each bank of legal
drain or within 75 feet from the centerline of any legal tile drain; or within
recorded drainage easements of a legal drain.
      IMPERVIOUS. A material through which water cannot pass or through which
water passes with difficulty.
      IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit stating that the proposed erection,
construction, enlargement or moving of a building or structure complies with
the provisions of the Town of Monrovia Zoning Ordinance.
      INLET. An opening into a storm sewer system for the entrance of surface
storm water runoff, more completely described as a storm sewer inlet.
      JUNCTION CHAMBER. Structure used to facilitate the flow from 1 or more
conduits into a main conduit.
      LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY or NONAGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any
manmade change of the land surface including removing vegetative cover,
excavating, filling, transporting, and grading. It includes any activity
requiring the Town of Monrovia improvement location permit, but does not
include agricultural land uses.
      LEGAL DRAIN. Any drain that has been accepted and is maintained by the
Plan Commission in accordance with the 1965 Drainage Act and its amendments.
      MANHOLE. Storm sewer structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to a storm sewer or enclosed structure. A MANHOLE may also be an inlet
for the storm sewer system.
      OUTFALL. The point or location where storm runoff discharges from a
sewer, channel or detention facility.
      PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a
channel or conduit resulting from a specified storm or flood of a given return
period or duration.
      PERIMETER DRAIN. A title drain located around an absorption field in
compliance with appropriate governmental regulations.
      RAINFALL INTENSITY. The rate of rainfall expressed as the amount of rain
occurring within a given duration, normally expressed in inches per hour.
      REACH. A specified length of a river, channel, or conduit.
      REGULATED AREA. All of the land under the jurisdiction of the Town of
Monrovia Plan Commission.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. A flood with a peak having a probability of occurrence
of 1% in any given year, which is commonly referred to as a 100-year flood as
calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to the Commission. If
a permit for construction in the floodway is required by the Indiana Department
of Natural Resources, the regulatory peak discharge shall be calculated by the
method and procedure acceptable to the Commission and the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources.
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions
of the floodplain adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry
and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or stream.
      RELEASE RATE. The amount of water released from a storm water control
facility per unit of time.
      RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a return period of 100
years has a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any 1 year.
      RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation from the sources as rainfall, snow
melt, or irrigation water that flows over or under the ground surface and
arrives at the point of consideration as surface water.
      RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A factor in the rational formula which relates the
ratio of peak runoff to rainfall and considers the factors as ground cover,
soil types, and watershed configuration.
      SEDIMENT. Material of soil and rock origin transported, carried or
deposited by water.
      SIPHON. A closed conduit, a portion of which lies above the hydraulic
grade line resulting in a pressure less than atmospheric and requiring a vacuum
within the conduit to start flow. An inverted siphon is used to carry flow
under an obstruction.
      SITE. The entire-area included in the legal description of the land on
which the land disturbing activity is proposed in the permit application.
      SPILLWAY. A waterway in or about a hydraulic structure for the escape of
excess water.
      STILLING BASIN. A structure used to dissipate the energy and/or velocity
of flowing water.
      STORAGE DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any
storm water control facility.
      STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected storm water.
      STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or manmade, used for
conducting storm water to, through or from a drainage area.
      SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A tile drain installed for the purpose of lowering the
ground water table.
      TOWN STAFF or TOWN PLAN COMMISSION STAFF. Staff as appointed by the Plan
Commission.
      URBANIZATION. The development, change or improvement of any parcel of
land consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
instructional, recreational or public utility purposes.
      WATERCOURSE. Any natural or manmade drainage way having a defined channel
and banks and into which storm water runoff or floodwaters flow either
regularly or intermittently.
      WATERSHED. See DRAINAGE AREA.
      WET BOTTOM DETENTION BASIN/RETENTION BASIN. A basin designed to retain a
permanent pool of water plus capacity to detain and release excess runoff.
      WETLANDS. Those areas which have hydric soils and that are inundated or
saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to
support and that, under normal circumstances, do support a prevalence of
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands
generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.015 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effective from and after its
passage, approval, and publication according to law.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
PLAN PROCEDURES
§ 152.025 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The applicant shall submit to the Commission, drainage calculations
detailing runoff before and after the proposed project which demonstrate
compliance with this chapter. In addition, the applicant shall submit a set of
plans of sufficient detail and clarity to allow the Commission to evaluate
project compliance with this chapter. The maximum sheet size shall be 24 inches
by 36 inches and as much information as possible should be shown on as few
sheets as possible. The plans must be prepared under the supervision of and
certified by a registered land surveyor or a professional engineer licensed by
the State of Indiana.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.026 SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   The plans submitted shall include the following information:
   (A)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   Project name, developer, project engineer or surveyor, their
address and telephone number, legal description, date of plans and any
revisions, scale of plan, and north point;
      (2)   Area vicinity map detailing project environs, current zoning,
adjoining property owners, and street lines within 1,000 feet of the project
boundaries;
      (3)   Topography based on mean sea level elevation at a minimum 1-foot
interval for the project site and any adjoining areas whose topography may
affect project drainage. If the drainage area is extensive, an additional map
of sufficient clarity must be provided;
      (4)   The location of existing streams, lakes, ponds, watercourses, and
other flood water runoff channels, the extent of the floodplain at the
established 100-year flood elevation (regulatory floodway), and the limits of
the floodway, all properly identified;
      (5)   The existing location of legal drains, surface and subsurface farm
drains, inlets, and outfalls, easements that are visible or of record, existing
seeps, springs, and wells that are visible or of record;
      (6)   Existing storm and sanitary sewers, inlets, or outfalls, existing
septic tank systems, and treatment plant outlets and utilities;
      (7)   Existing structures;
      (8)   Identification of jurisdictional wetlands in conformance with §
152.007;
      (9)   Boundary and acreage of project site indicated by a heavy solid
line based on a traverse with angular and linear dimensions; and
      (10)   Other significant conditions of the area proposed to be improved.
   (B)   Site improvements.
      (1)   Finished floor elevations for all improvements;
      (2)   Proposed changes in streams, lakes, swamps, detention basins,
watercourses and flood water runoff channels, floodplains, and the limits of
the floodway, all properly identified;
      (3)   Proposed location of legal drains, surface and subsurface drains,
inlets, outfalls, and easements;
      (4)   Proposed location, materials, and gradients of storm and sanitary
sewers, inlets and outfalls, on-site sanitary effluent disposal systems, and
location of affected utilities;
      (5)   Structures to be removed or relocated on the project site;
      (6)   The location and design of proposed streets, roads, sidewalks,
culverts, bridges, parking lots, hard-surfaced areas, including depressed
pavement used to convey or temporarily store overflow from heavier rainstorms,
and outlets for the overflow;
      (7)   The cross section of existing streams and floodplains to be
maintained or changed and new channels to be constructed where changes are
proposed or discharge into receiving streams is altered; and
      (8)   The erosion and sediment control measures to be implemented
including, but not limited to: design and installation details, location,
vegetation and schedule.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.027 SUBMITTAL AND CONSIDERATION OF PLANS.
   (A)   All applications must be submitted on the forms approved by the Plan
Commission and provided by the Town of Monrovia Engineer's Office. Projects
which require approval through the Plan Commission, such as subdivisions and
site plan reviews, shall submit preliminary and final plans to the Plan
Commission according to the Plan Commission Rules of Procedure.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall give proper notice of their decision and
deliver the same to the applicant. The Commission shall approve or disapprove
the plans within 60 days of submission unless the applicant consents to a
continuance or extension. All approvals and disapprovals with written reasons
shall be incorporated into the Commission minutes.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.028 DETERMINATION OF RUNOFF QUANTITIES.
   Runoff quantities shall be computed for the watersheds within the parcel
under development. The quantity of runoff which is generated as the result of a
given rainfall intensity may be calculated as follows:
   (A)   For areas up to and including 200 acres, the Rational Method may be
used: The peak rate of runoff (Q) in cubic feet per second is computed as Q =
CIA;
      Where:
      C = runoff coefficient, representing the characteristics of the drainage
area and defined as the ratio of runoff to rainfall;
      I = average intensity of rainfall in inches per hour for a duration equal
to the time of concentration (tc) for a selected rainfall frequency; and
      A = tributary drainage area in acres.
   (B)   Guidance for selection of the runoff coefficients is to be found in
appropriate design manuals. Rainfall intensity shall be determined from the
rainfall frequency curves found in standard design manuals for this region or
from data shown. The time of concentration (tc) to be used shall be the sum of
the inlet time and flow time in the drainage facility from the most remote part
of the drainage area to the point under consideration. The flow time in the
storm sewers may be estimated by the distance in feet divided by velocity of
flow in feet per second. The velocity shall be determined by the Manning
Formula.
   (C)   Other methods of determining runoff may be used upon approval of the
town staff. Computer programs may be used and computer printouts submitted for
drainage calculations provided details of the program and the assumptions made
by that program are submitted with the calculations and approved by the town
staff.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.029 AMOUNT OF RUNOFF TO BE ACCOMMODATED BY VARIOUS PARTS OF DRAINAGE
FACILITY.
   Various parts of the drainage facility must accommodate runoff water as
follows:
   (A)   The drainage system, including inlets, catch basins, street gutters,
component swales, storm sewers and small channels, which collect storm water
must accommodate peak runoff from at least a 10-year return period storm. The
allowable spread of water on collector streets is limited to maintaining 2
clear 10-foot moving lanes of traffic. One lane is to be maintained on local
roads and subdivision streets.
   (B)   For rainfall heavier than a 10-year storm, these minimum requirements
must be satisfied:
      (1)   Open channels carrying peak flows greater than 30 cubic feet per
second shall be capable of accommodating peak runoff for a 50-year return
period storm within the drainage easement;
      (2)   New culverts shall be capable of accommodating peak runoff from a
50-year return period storm when crossing under a road which is part of the
Indiana Department of Transportation functional classification system and are
classified as principal or minor arterial, major or minor collector roads; and
      (3)   Drainage systems shall have adequate capacity to convey the storm
water runoff from all upstream tributary areas through the development under
consideration for a storm of 100-year design return period calculated on the
basis of the upstream land in its present state of development. An allowance,
equivalent to the reduction in flow rate provided, shall be made for upstream
detention when the upstream detention and release rates have previously been
approved by the Commission and evidence of its construction can be shown.
Developer shall be responsible for providing supporting documentation if the
town does not have it on file.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.030 DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   Drainage easements must be provided to cover all elements of the drainage
system and must be designed:
   (A)   To be adequate to install and maintain the drainage facilities;
   (B)   To minimize conflicts with utility easements; and
   (C)   To maintain a sufficient buildable area on each lot or parcel.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
STORM SEWER DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.045 CONFORMANCE.
   All storm sewers, whether public or private and whether constructed on
public or private property, shall conform to the design standards and other
requirements contained in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.046 HYDRAULIC CAPACITY.
   The hydraulic capacity of a storm sewer shall be determined using Manning's
Equation.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.047 MINIMUM SIZE.
   The minimum diameter of a storm sewer shall be 12 inches. Rate of release
for detention storage shall be controlled by an orifice plate or other devices,
subject to approval of the Commission where the 12-inch pipe will not limit the
rate of release as required.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.048 GRADE.
   The minimum and maximum allowable sewer gradients shall be those capable of
producing velocities of 2½ and 12 feet per second, respectively, when the sewer
is flowing full. A minimum of 2 feet of cover is to be maintained over the top
of the pipe. Pipe cover less than the minimum may be used only upon approval of
the Plan Commission. Uniform slopes shall be maintained between structures. A
final grade shall be set with full consideration of the capacity required,
sedimentation problems and other design parameters.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.049 ALIGNMENT.
   A storm sewer shall be straight between structures.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.050 MANHOLES.
   (A)   Structures shall be installed to provide access to continuous
underground storm sewers for the purpose of inspection and maintenance.
Manholes shall be provided at the following locations:
      (1)   Where 2 or more storm sewers converge;
      (2)   Where pipe size changes;
      (3)   Where a change in alignment occurs;
      (4)   Where a change in grade occurs;
      (5)   At suitable intervals in straight sections of sewer; and
      (6)   Wherever pipe materials change.
   (B)   The maximum distance between storm sewer manholes shall be as follows:
 
Size of Pipe (inches)    Maximum Distance (feet)
12 inches thru 18 inches 400
24 inches thru 42 inches 500
48 inches and larger     600
 
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.051 INLETS.
   Inlets or drainage structures shall be utilized to collect surface water
through grated openings and convey it to storm sewers, channels or culverts.
The inlet grate opening provided must be adequate to pass the design 10-year
flow with 50% of sag inlet grate open areas clogged while providing a 10-foot
minimum lane free of ponding. An overload channel with suitable easement(s)
from sag inlets to a suitable outlet or basin shall be provided. (See § 152.029
(A)).
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.052 WORKMANSHIP.
   The specifications for the construction of storm sewers shall not be less
stringent than those set forth in the latest revision of the Indiana Department
of Transportation's Standard Specifications.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.053 MATERIALS.
   Storm sewer manholes and inlets shall be cast in place concrete or precast
reinforced concrete. Material and construction shall conform to Indiana
Department of Transportation's Standard Specifications, § 720. Pipe and
fittings used in storm sewer construction shall be galvanized or aluminum
corrugated metal pipe, ductile iron pipe (AWWA C-151), or reinforced concrete
pipe (ASTM C-76). PVC and HDPE may be used subject to the approval of the Plan
Commission. Other types of inlets, end treatments, pipes and fittings may be
used only when specifically authorized by the Commission. Pipe joints shall be
flexible and soil tight and shall conform to the requirements of § 715.02 -
Materials, of the latest edition of the Indiana Department of Transportation's
Standard Specifications. Pipe end treatments shall be metal end sections for
metal or plastic pipes and concrete end sections for concrete pipes.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.054 BACKFILL REQUIREMENT.
   Backfill around storm sewer pipes and structures shall meet the following
standards:
   (A)   Backfill under pavement and 5 feet outside of pavement shall pass less
than 5% through a #200 sieve and shall be haunched and compacted in the
installation to support the pipe in compliance with all the manufacturer's
specifications, or flowable backfill per INDOT Standard Specifications (where
sewer crosses under streets);
   (B)   Backfill of a storm sewer pipe trench, the near edge of which is
within 5 feet of the proposed or existing pavement area, shall be granular
material or flowable backfill as specified in §
152.054(A), to the base of pavement along the entire trench (sewer parallel to
street); and
   (C)   Backfill of a storm sewer pipe trench, the near edge of which is
located more than 5 feet outside of the pavement area, may be of selective
native material which shall be haunched and compacted in compliance with all
manufacturer's specifications.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.055 SPECIAL HYDRAULIC STRUCTURES.
   Special hydraulic structures such as siphons, stilling basins, or other
special structures required to control the flow of water in storm drainage
systems, shall be limited to those locations justified by prudent planning and
designed with careful and thorough hydraulic engineering analysis subject to
approval of the Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
OPEN CHANNEL DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.070 CONFORMANCE.
   All open channels, whether constructed on public or private property, shall
conform to the design standards and other requirements contained in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.071 CHANNEL CROSS SECTION AND GRADE.
   The required channel cross section and grade are determined by the design
capacity based on Manning's Equation, the material of which the channel is to
be constructed, and the requirements for maintenance. A minimum depth may be
required to provide adequate outlets for subsurface drains, storm sewer pipes,
tributary ditches or streams. The channel grade shall be such that the velocity
in the channel is high enough to prevent siltation but low enough to prevent
erosion. Channel lining materials must be justified by the project engineer in
the final drainage design.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.072 SIDE SLOPES.
   Side slopes of earthen channels shall be no steeper than 3:1, justified by
local materials and approved by the Commission. Flatter slopes may be required
to prevent erosion and for ease of maintenance. Where channels will be lined,
as per §
152.077, side slopes shall be no steeper than 1½:1 with adequate provisions
made for weep holes. Side slopes steeper than 1½:1 may be used for lined
channels, provided that the side lining and structural retaining wall are
designed and constructed with provisions for live and dead load surcharges.
Side slopes of ditches located along roadways must be traversable and comply
with Appendix B guidelines, as are on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.073 CHANNEL STABILITY.
   (A)   A stable channel does not vary design gradient and cross section from
acceptable limits;
   (B)   Channel stability shall be determined for an aged condition. The
velocity shall be based on the design flow or the bank full flow, whichever is
greater, using “n” values for various channel linings; and
   (C)   Channel stability must be checked using conditions immediately after
construction for justification of erosion control. measures. See §§
152.115 through
152.118, Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control, for erosion control standards.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.074 DRAINAGE OF OPEN CHANNELS.
   Vegetated channels with a gradient of less than 1% or that are subject to
low flows of long duration or where wet conditions prevail shall be drained
with a tile system or by other means like paved gutters. Tile lines may be
drained through a drop structure at the end of the channels or through a
standard tile outlet. Tiles shall be bedded in granular materials that will not
pass through tile wall openings. Tiles shall be installed with a minimum of 24
inches of cover over the top of the tile and shall be offset from the
centerline of the channel. Any cover less than 24 inches is subject to Plan
Commission approval.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.075 BACKYARD SWALES.
   (A)   Grass swales shall have a minimum gradient of 1%. Underdrains may be
drained through a drop structure at the end of the channels or through a
standard tile outlet. Tiles shall be bedded in granular materials that will not
pass through the wall openings. Tiles shall be installed with a minimum of 12
inches of cover over the top of the tile and shall be offset from the
centerline of the channel. Any cover less than 12 inches is subject to Plan
Commission approval.
   (B)   Underdrains or storm sewers shall be provided in plan design for each
lot to connect house storm sewer drains and sump pumps. No connection to street
underdrains shall be allowed. No drainage of sump pumps or house storm sewer
drains to street gutters shall be allowed.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.076 APPURTENANT STRUCTURES.
   The channel design will include the design of all structures required for
the proper functioning of the channel, the laterals, and the maintenance ways.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.077 DISPOSITION OF SPOIL MATERIAL.
   Spoil material resulting from clearing, grubbing, and channel excavation
shall be disposed of in a manner which will minimize erosion and other adverse
effects to easements, surface drainage, and rights-of-way. Disposal shall be
done in a manner that will also improve the aesthetic appearance of the site.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.078 MATERIALS.
   (A)   Materials acceptable for use as channel lining are revetment rip-rap,
concrete, hand laid rip-rap, precast cement concrete rip-rap and grouted rip-
rap, gabions, pegged rod erosion control blankets, and netting.
   (B)   Other lining materials shall require specific approval of the
Commission. All channel materials shall comply with the latest edition of the
Indiana Department of Transportation's Standard Specifications. Interconnected
tires are not acceptable material.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
STORM WATER RETENTION
§ 152.090 GOVERNANCE.
   The following shall govern the design of any improvement with respect to the
detention of storm water runoff.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.091 ACCEPTABLE DETENTION METHODS.
   The increased storm water runoff from a proposed development shall be
detained on-site by appropriate wet or dry bottom reservoirs, by storage on
flat roofs, parking lots, streets, lawns or other acceptable techniques.
Measures which retard the rate of overland flow and the velocity in runoff
channels may also be used to control the runoff rate.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.092 DETENTION FACILITY DESIGN.
   Storm water facilities shall be designed to store the excess flows from a
post-development 100-year return interval storm of 24-hour duration. The
release rate shall be that of a 10-year return interval storm of 24-hour
duration on the site in its pre-developed state, or the capacity of the
receiving stream, whichever is less. Under certain conditions it may be
desirable to allow storm water runoff from a site without detention. This would
be particularly germane for developments located immediately upstream from a
channel obstruction that cannot be realistically removed.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.093 ALLOCATION OF DETENTION.
   In the case of an existing limiting restriction that cannot be realistically
removed, the allowable release rate from any 1 detention basin shall be in
direct proportion to the ratio of its drainage area to the drainage area of the
entire watershed upstream of the limiting restriction. The total runoff shall
not exceed the capacity of the restriction and each development shall be
responsible for its proportionate share of the storage requirement.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.094 DETERMINATION OF STORAGE VOLUME.
   (A)   For areas of 200 acres or less, the Rational Method may be used to
determine the required volume of storm water storage, as outlined in the Storm
Drainage Control Model Ordinance of the Highway Extension and Research Project
for Indiana Counties and Cities (HERPICC).
   (B)   Methods for determining runoff and routing of storm water other than
the Rational Method may be used to determine the storage volume required to
control storm water runoff. The procedures or methods used must receive the
prior written approval of the Town Engineer. The TR-20 and TR-55 models are
approved for appropriate use in analysis of the runoff and routing of storm
water.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.095 GENERAL DETENTION BASIN DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Basins shall be constructed to temporarily detain the storm water
runoff which exceeds the peak flow rate authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   The following minimum standards shall be observed:
      (1)   The maximum volume of water stored and subsequently released at the
design release rate shall not result in a storage duration in excess of 48
hours unless additional storms occur within the period;
      (2)   All storm water detention facilities shall be separated by not less
than 25 feet from any building or structure to be occupied and the lowest floor
of any building or structure must be at least 1 foot above the 100-year storm
water elevation of detention facilities;
      (3)   Safety screens shall be installed on all outlet control structures.
Screens shall retain a sphere greater than 6 inches in diameter and shall have
a screen area at least 6 times the end area of the outlet control structure;
      (4)   Danger signs shall be mounted at appropriate locations to warn of
deep water, possible flooding conditions during storm periods and other dangers
that exist. Fencing shall be provided if deemed necessary by the Commission.
Design and locations must be approved by the Commission;
      (5)   Outlet control structures shall be designed to operate as simply as
possible and shall be designed so as to require little or no maintenance and
attention for proper operation;
      (6)   Emergency overflow facilities, like a weir or spillway, shall be
provided for the release of exceptional storm runoffs, or in emergency
conditions like the normal discharge devices becoming totally or partially
inoperative. The overflow facility shall be of the design that its operation is
automatic and does not require manual implementation; and
      (7)   Side slopes shall be in compliance with §
152.071.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.096 DRY BOTTOM DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Detention basins which will not contain a permanent pool of water shall
comply with the following additional requirements:
   (A)   Provisions shall be incorporated to facilitate complete interior
drainage of dry bottom basins. Acceptable methods include natural grades to
outlet structures, longitudinal or transverse grades to perimeter drainage
facilities, paved gutters, or subsurface drains. Detention basins with less
than 1% gradient must be provided with subsurface drainage or paved gutters;
   (B)   Recreational facilities, aesthetic qualities, open space or other
secondary use shall be considered in planning the detention facility; and
   (C)   The maximum planned depth of storm water stored without a permanent
pool shall not exceed 4 feet.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.097 WET BOTTOM BASIN DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Where part of a detention basin, excluding wetlands, will contain a
permanent pool of water, the following additional requirements shall apply:
   (A)   If fish are to be maintained, a pond shall have a water area of at
least ½ acre and a minimum depth of approximately 10 feet and a maximum of 20
feet shall be maintained over at least 25% of the pond area. The remaining pond
area shall have no extensive shallow areas, except as required by §
152.097(C);
   (B)   Where fish are not to be maintained, the minimum depth shall be 8 feet
and a maximum of 20 feet over at least 25% of the pond at permanent water
level, or where a limiting layer prevents excavation to that depth, a minimum
of 6 feet over at least 50% of the area shall be required;
   (C)   In excavated ponds, the underwater side slopes in the pond shall be
stable. In the case of valley storage, natural slopes may be considered to be
stable;
   (D)   A safety ledge measuring a minimum of 6 feet in width and a 10:1 slope
is required and must be installed in all ponds approximately 30 inches below
the permanent water level;
   (E)   Erosion control measures must be installed to prevent erosion from
wave action and wet-dry cycles;
   (F)   Pond design shall facilitate periodic maintenance to control weed and
larval growth; and
   (G)   Facilities to enhance and maintain pond water quality shall be
provided if required to meet applicable water quality standards. Design
calculations to substantiate the effectiveness of these facilities shall be
submitted with final engineering plans. Agreements for the perpetual operation
and maintenance of these facilities shall be prepared to the satisfaction of
the Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.098 ROOFTOP STORAGE.
   If rooftop detention is proposed, details of the design are to be included
in the improvement location permit application and shall include the depth and
volume of storage, details of outlet devices and down drains, and elevations of
emergency overflow provisions. Rooftop detention is not recommended.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.099 PARKING LOT STORAGE.
   Paved parking lots may be designed to provide temporary detention storage of
storm water. Ponding should, in general, be confined to those positions of the
parking lots farthest from the area served. Ponding areas shall not conflict
with handicapped parking and access routes. The ponding areas should be exposed
to sunlight in winter months to minimize icing. Storage depth shall be limited
to 7 inches so as not to conflict with parking lot use. Any detention facility
utilizing a parking lot must take resurfacing and other parking lot maintenance
activities into consideration during design.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.100 FACILITY MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   Maintenance of detention facilities during construction shall be the
responsibility of the land developer or owner. Maintenance responsibilities
shall be documented by appropriate covenants to property deeds prior to final
drainage plan approval. Routine maintenance shall be the owner's or homeowner's
responsibility. The permanent pool of a wet bottom basin shall be the
responsibility of the owner or homeowner's association. Routine maintenance
shall, at a minimum, assure that the drainage facility performs the functions
for which it was designed and constructed. Unless accepted by the town, all
facilities shall be privately owned and funded.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.101 JOINT DEVELOPMENT OF CONTROL SYSTEMS.
   Storm water control systems may be planned and constructed jointly by 2 or
more developers as long as compliance with this chapter is maintained.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.102 ALLOWANCE FOR SEDIMENTATION.
   Detention basins shall be designed with an additional 6% of available
capacity to allow for sediment accumulation resulting from development and to
permit the pond to function for reasonable periods between cleanings. Basins
should be designed to collect sediment and debris in specific locations so that
removal costs are kept to a minimum.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.103 DETENTION FACILITIES IN A FLOODPLAIN.
   If detention storage is provided within a floodplain, only the net increase
in storage volume above that which naturally existed in the floodplain shall be
credited to the development. No credit will be granted for volumes below the
elevation of the regulatory flood at the location unless compensatory storage
is also provided.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
§ 152.115 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Measures taken to control erosion and sedimentation shall assure that
sediment is not transported from a site by storm events.
   (B)   The following general provision should be used in the preparation of
submissions required under this chapter:
      (1)   To minimize potential for soil erosion, development should fit the
topography and soils of the site. Steep slopes, deep cuts, and fills in
erodible soils should be avoided wherever possible and natural contours should
be followed as closely as possible;
      (2)   Natural vegetation shall be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses and protected
wetlands shall also be left undisturbed wherever possible. Vegetation to be
preserved shall be protected prior to construction;
      (3)   All activities on a site must be conducted in a logical sequence so
that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development;
      (4)   Practices such as, but not limited to sediment basins, silt traps
or filters, shall be installed prior to land disturbing activities and
maintained to remove sediment from runoff leaving the site as long as
unstabilized soil conditions exist;
      (5)   The selection of soil erosion and sediment control measures shall
include the assessment of the probable frequency of climatic events. The
aesthetics of the project improvements and the requirements of continuing
maintenance shall be considered; and
      (6)   Provisions shall be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused
by changed soil and surface conditions during and after development. Drainage
ways shall be designed so that their final gradients and resultant velocities
will not create erosion.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.116 DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND THE LIKE.
   All erosion control measures shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specification as outlined in the Field Office Technical Guide of the Soil
Conservation Service (SCS of the United States Department of Agricultural
(USDA)), the Urban Development Planning Guide of the Hoosier Heartland Resource
Conservation and Development Council, and the Indiana Handbook for Erosion
Control in Developing Areas of the IDNR - Division of Soil Conservation. These
publications are available through the Morgan County Soil and Water
Conservation District, the Soil Conservation Service (SCS) offices, the US
Government Printing Office, and the IDNR Division of the Soil Conservation.
Erosion Control measures shall be identified on the plans using standard
symbols (See Appendix A, as is on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office).
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.117 MAINTENANCE OF EROSION CONTROL MEASURES.
   (A)   All sediment basins and other erosion control measures necessary to
meet the requirements of this chapter shall be maintained by the applicant or
subsequent landowner. After land disturbing activities cease, and the silt is
stabilized, temporary sediment basins and other temporary erosion control
measures may be eliminated if their purpose has been fulfilled.
   (B)   Any disturbed soil resulting from removal of the practices shall be
stabilized by approved methods.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.118 CONTROL OF EROSION AND SEDIMENT DURING LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES.
   The following requirements shall be met on all sites:
   (A)   Sediment trapping. Sediment laden water flowing from the site shall be
detained by temporary sediment basins or other suitable control measures. Water
may not be discharged in a manner that causes
erosion of the site or receiving channels or an accumulation of sediment within
the receiving channel or its outlets;
   (B)   Waste and materials disposal. All waste and unused building materials
including, but not limited to, garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater,
toxic materials, and hazardous substances shall be properly disposed of and not
allowed to be carried by runoff into a receiving channel or storm sewer system;
   (C)   Tracking. Prior to the land disturbing activity, each site shall have
graveled access drives or other approved systems of sufficient width and length
to eliminate sediment being tracked onto public or private roadways. Gravel
access drives shall be maintained by acceptable methods. Flushing is not an
acceptable method;
   (D)   Temporary stream crossings. A stream crossing during land disturbing
activities shall be non-erosive, structurally stable, and shall not contribute
to flooding or safety hazards. Streams should be crossed at right angles to the
stream flow. Erosion control measures shall be employed and shall be
appropriate to the expected life of the crossing. Temporary crossings must
convey full flow or a 2-year peak discharge, whichever is less. Overflow areas
must be protected from erosion for a 10-year peak flow;
   (E)   Sediment removal. Public or private roadways shall be cleaned daily
and after major storms using acceptable methods to remove any accumulated
sediment. The developer's contractors are responsible for supervision of the
construction activity within the development and shall take all necessary
actions to remove sediment from the streets. Appreciable sediment should be
placed and stabilized properly and protected from returning onto the road or
into the storm water system;
   (F)   Drain inlet protection. All storm drain inlets shall be protected with
straw bales, filter fabric, or equivalent barriers meeting accepted design
criteria, standards and specifications. Curb inlet protection measures that
trap sediment within pavement areas are prohibited;
   (G)   Site erosion and sediment control. The following items apply only to
the time period when land disturbing activities are taking place which may
cause water and sediment to leave the site;
      (1)   Runoff passing through the site from adjacent areas shall be
minimized by protecting the existing channel or, if necessary, diverting it
around disturbed areas if legal, feasible, and practical;
      (2)   On the site, runoff from the entire disturbed area shall be
controlled by meeting the following:
         (a)   All disturbed ground left inactive for 7 or more days shall be
stabilized by seeding, sodding, mulching, or by other equivalent erosion
control measures; and
         (b)   For sites having less than 10 acres disturbed at one time, silt
fences, straw bale dams, or equivalent erosion control measures shall be placed
along all sloping perimeters where erosion and sedimentation could occur. If a
channel or an area of concentrated runoff passes through the site, silt fences
shall be placed along the channel edges to reduce the amount of sediment
reaching the channel.
      (3)   Where drainage areas are too large or runoff volumes are too great
for sediment trapping practices, 1 or more sediment basins should be
constructed. Each sediment basin should have a sufficient depth and a
sufficient surface area to trap the sediment. The discharge rate or velocity
from a basin should be sufficiently low so as to not cause erosion or the
receiving channel shall be adequately protected.
   (H)   Top soil stockpiling. During cut and fill operations top soil shall be
stockpiled and respread on final grades where vegetation is to be established;
and
   (I)   Soil stockpiling. Excess soil that is stored to be used at a later
date must be stockpiled and protected from erosion.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
ACCESSORY DRAINS
§ 152.130 SUMP PUMPS.
   Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge ground waters or other storm
water shall be connected to a storm sewer, a subsurface drain or a designated
storm discharge channel. They shall not outlet to street gutters or street
underdrains. Floor drain flow or other sanitary sewage shall be connected to
the sanitary sewers or septic systems and shall not discharge to storm sewers
or surface outlets.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.131 DOWN SPOUTS.
   All down spouts or roof drains shall discharge onto the ground or be
connected directly to the storm sewer pipe. Downspouts or roof drains shall not
be connected to the sanitary sewers or subsurface drains.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.132 FOOTING DRAINS.
   Footing drains shall be connected to a storm sewer, subsurface drain or
designated storm drainage channel. Footing drains or drainage tiles shall not
be connected to the sanitary sewer or septic system.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.133 BASEMENT FLOOR DRAINS.
   Basement floor drains shall be connected to the sanitary sewers or septic
system. Basement drains shall not be connected to sump pumps which discharge to
storm sewers.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.134 OTHER INFORMATION.
   No accessory drain shall be connected to underdrains under the street or
curb.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.145 CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   After completion of the project and before final acceptance will be
made, 5 “as built” sets of plans, stamped and signed by a registered land
surveyor, shall be submitted to the Plan Commission staff for review. These
plans shall include all pertinent data relevant to the completed storm drainage
and erosion control systems and shall include:
      (1)   All pipe sizes and pipe materials;
      (2)   All invert elevations;
      (3)   All top rim elevations;
      (4)   All structure locations and pipe lengths;
      (5)   All permanent sediment basins and their maintenance provisions;
      (6)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume; and
      (7)   A certified statement on the plans stating the completed storm
drainage system substantially complies with construction plans as approved by
the Plan Commission. If during preparation of these “as built” plans it is
found that the storm drainage system does not substantially comply with the
construction plans as approved by the Plan Commission, reapproval must be
obtained.
   (B)   All “as built” plans submitted shall be reviewed for compliance within
30 days after submission to the Plan Commission staff. If notice of
noncompliance is not given within 30 days of submission of the plans, the plans
shall be construed as approved.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.146 CHANGES IN PLANS.
   Any revision, significant change or deviation in the detailed plans and
specifications after formal approval by the Commission shall be filed with and
approved by the Commission prior to implementation of the revision or change.
Copies of the revisions or changes, if approved, shall be attached to the
original plans and specifications.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.147 DETERMINATION OF IMPACT DRAINAGE AREAS.
   (A)   The Commission is authorized, but is not required, to classify certain
geographical areas as impact drainage areas and to enact and promulgate
regulations which are generally applied. In determining impact drainage areas,
the Commission shall consider the factors as topography, soil type, the
capacity of any existing legal drains, and the distance from an adequate
drainage facility. The following areas shall be designated as impact drainage
areas unless good reason for not including them is presented to and approved by
the Plan Commission:
      (1)   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources or the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (2)   Land within 75 feet of each bank of any legal drain; and
      (3)   Land within 75 feet of the center line of any legal drain tile.
   (B)   Land where there is not an adequate outlet, taking into consideration
the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an impact drainage
area by resolution of the Commission. Special requirements for development
within any impact drainage area shall be included in the resolution.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.148 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records, reasonable
engineering criteria, and scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur
or storm water runoff depths may be increased by manmade or natural causes.
This ordinance does not imply that land uses permitted will be free from storm
water damage. This ordinance shall not create liability on the part of the Town
of Monrovia or any officer or employee for any damage which may result from
reliance on this chapter or on any administrative decision(s) lawfully made.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.149 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the Town of Monrovia from
taking any other lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. All costs connected with any legal action shall accrue to the person
or persons responsible.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.150 EXEMPT PROJECTS.
   Any residential, commercial or industrial major or minor subdivision or
construction project which has had its drainage plan approved by the Commission
prior to the effective date of this chapter may be exempt from all the
requirements of this chapter, however, compliance is encouraged.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 152.151 ENFORCEMENT.
   This section establishes the means of enforcing and the penalty for
violation of these regulations.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Commission to enforce these regulations
and to bring any violation or lack of compliance to the attention of the Town
Attorney;
   (B)   No improvement location permit, building permit or certificate of
occupancy required under the Building Code, the Zoning Ordinance or these
regulations shall be issued on any property subject to these regulations until
the property is in full compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
   (C)   Any person who violates a provision of these regulations shall be
guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10
and not more than $300 for each day's violation. The time period of violation
shall be determined by the Court;
   (D)   The Commission may institute any injunction suit requesting a person
or a governmental unit to be directed to repair streets, storm sewer
facilities, streams and to remove a structure erected in violation of these
regulations or to make the same comply with its terms. If the Commission is
successful in its suit, the respondent shall bear the costs of the action
including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs, legal advertising,
and professional services; and
   (E)   The Commission may institute a suit for mandatory injunction
requesting a person or a governmental unit to be directed, where any person or
governmental unit has violated any provisions of these regulations, to comply
with the provisions of the regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Policy
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Authority and Jurisdiction
   
153.005   Enactment
   
153.006   Interpretation
   
153.007   Conflict
   
153.008   Savings provision
   
153.009   Reservation and appeal
   
153.010   Amendment
   
153.011   Conditions
   
153.012   Citations to Indiana Code
   
153.013   Resubdivision
   
153.014   Vacation
   
153.015   Waiver
   
153.016   Enforcement
   
153.017   Interpretation; definitions
   
153.018   General requirements
Subdivision Procedures
   
153.030   Preliminary consultations
   
153.031   Application for primary approval
   
153.032   Fees
   
153.033   Preliminary plan
   
153.034   Staff review
   
153.035   Notice of public hearing
   
153.036   Primary approval
   
153.037   Written findings of fact
   
153.038   Review by certiorari of Commission’s decision
   
153.039   Effective date of primary approval
   
153.040   Application for secondary approval
   
153.041   Fees
   
153.042   Final plat and construction plans
   
153.043   Appeal
   
153.044   Secondary approval
   
153.045   Written findings of fact
   
153.046   Appeals
   
153.047   Minor subdivision procedure
   
153.048   Completion and maintenance of improvements
   
153.049   Inspections
   
153.050   Duties and powers of inspectors
   
153.051   Temporary improvements
   
153.052   As-built plans
   
153.053   Failure to complete improvements
   
153.054   Recording of final plat
   
153.055   Time limitation to record final plat
   
153.056   Amendments, replats or plat revisions
Street Design Standards; Improvements
   
153.070   Street design standards
   
153.071   Intersections
   
153.072   Sight distance at intersections
   
153.073   Building setback line
   
153.074   Street improvements
   
153.075   Joints
   
153.076   Curbs and gutters
   
153.077   Sidewalks
   
153.078   Subdivision and street identification signs; regulatory signs
Water Facilities
   
153.090   General requirements
   
153.091   Individual wells and central water systems
   
153.092   Fire hydrants
   
153.093   Dry hydrants
Sewage Facilities
   
153.105   General requirements
   
153.106   Sanitary sewerage system requirements
   
153.107   Individual disposal system requirements
Nonresidential Subdivisions
   
153.120   General
   
153.121   Standards
   
153.122   Private streets
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
Subdivision Control Ordinance of the Town of Monrovia, Indiana, and shall
hereafter to be referred to as these regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.002 POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be policy of the town to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivision plat as
subject to the town's Comprehensive Plan and related policies for the orderly
and efficient development of the town.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of such a character that it can be
developed without peril to health or peril from flood, fire or other menace.
Subdivided land shall have access to available existing public facilities and
improvements and shall have proper provisions for drainage, water, sewerage and
other necessary public improvements like schools, parks, recreation and
transportation facilities adequate for serving the subdivision.
   (C)   Both existing and proposed public facilities serving the subdivision
shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan and related policies.
   (D)   The Plan Commission reserves the right to issue plan approval
contingent upon receipt of appropriate documentation or permits from other
agencies or utilities. The purpose of this policy is to reduce unnecessary
hardship on parties seeking plan approval in the town.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To guide the future development and redevelopment of the town in
accordance with the Comprehensive Plan and related policies.
   (B)   To provide for the safety, comfort, and soundness of the manmade
environment and related open space.
   (C)   To protect the compatibility, character, economic stability and
orderliness of all development through reasonable design standards.
   (D)   To guide public and private policy and action so as to provide
adequate and efficient public and private facilities to achieve the most
aesthetically pleasing and beneficial interrelationships between land uses, and
to conserve natural resources such as natural beauty woodlands, open spaces,
and energy both during and after development.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.004 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   These regulations are enacted pursuant to Indiana Home Rule and
planning enabling legislation. I.C. 36-1-3-4; 36-1-3-5; and 36-7-4-700 Series
authorizes the Plan Commission exclusive control to review and approve or
disapprove plats for subdivisions throughout the incorporated area and the
surrounding jurisdictional area of the Town of Monrovia. This authority also
extends to the resubdivision of undeveloped portions of a previously recorded
plat.
   (B)   Any undeveloped parcel of land with a metes and bounds description
established prior to the effective date of these regulations and less than 5
acres in size shall comply with the provisions of these regulations to be
eligible for an improvement location permit.
   (C)   No improvement location permit, building permit or certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for any parcel or plat of land which was created by
subdivision after the effective date of, and not in conformity with, the
provisions of these regulations. Also no construction of any public or private
improvement shall take place or be commenced except in conformity with the
applicable standards of these regulations and the Building Code.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.005 ENACTMENT.
   In order that land may be subdivided in accordance with the purpose and
policy contained herein, these regulations are hereby adopted.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.006 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these regulations
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.007 CONFLICT.
   (A)   These regulations are not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or
annul any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, or other provision of
law. Where any provision of these regulations impose a restriction different
from those imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any other
ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provision is
more restrictive or imposes a higher standard shall control.
   (B)   These regulations are not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant
or any other private agreement or restriction, provided that where the
provision of these regulations is more restrictive or imposes a higher standard
or regulation than the easement, covenant, or other private agreement or
restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall control. Where the
provision of the easement, covenant, or private agreement or restriction
imposes a duty and obligation more restrictive, or a higher standard than the
requirements of these regulations, or the determination of the Plan Commission
in approving a subdivision or in enforcing these regulations, and the private
provision is not inconsistent with these regulations or determination of the
Plan Commission, then the private provision shall be operative and supplemental
to these regulations and determinations of the Plan Commission. A private
provision can only be enforced privately.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.008 SAVINGS PROVISION.
   (A)   These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now
pending under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the Town Council under any section or provision
existing at the time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or
annulling any right obtained by any person, firm or corporation, by lawful
action of the town except as shall be expressly provided for in these
regulations.
   (B)   Any proposed or actual subdivision of land having been granted
preliminary or final approval by the Plan Commission under the previous
Subdivision Control Ordinance shall be held to the provisions of that previous
ordinance only and not to the provisions of these regulations, including
existing provisions of time extension of final approval. Any proposed
subdivision of land for which a complete application filing fee has been
submitted and accepted by the Secretary of the Plan Commission, prior to the
date of enactment of these regulations, shall be held to the provisions of the
previous Subdivision Control Ordinance only and not to the provisions of these
regulations.
   (C)   Any division of land prior to the enactment of these regulations, and
subsequent to February 10, 1997, which division or act was in violation of the
ordinance repealed by these regulations, shall be subject to all remedies,
penalties and defenses under the repealed ordinance.
   (D)   Any subdivision qualifying under §
153.008(A) or (B), having been granted final approval under the previous
Subdivision Control Ordinance, and prior to the effective date of these
regulations, and subsequently having completed the requirements for recording
under the previous Subdivision Control Ordinance, may be signed by the
designated officials as having been granted secondary approval and permitted to
record the final plat.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.009 RESERVATION AND APPEAL.
   Upon the adoption of these regulations prescribed by I.C. 36-7-4-701, the
Subdivision Control Ordinance of Monrovia, Indiana, adopted February 10, 1997.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.010 AMENDMENT.
   For the purposes of providing for the public health, safety, and general
welfare, the Town Council, upon recommendation of the Plan Commission, may
amend the provisions imposed by these regulations. A public hearing on any
proposed amendment shall be held by the Plan Commission in the manner
prescribed by the I.C. 36-7-4-701.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.011 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Regulations of the subdivision of land and the attachment of any
reasonable conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power
delegated by the State of Indiana to this town prescribed by I.C. 36-7-4-700
Series.
   (B)   The developer has the duty of compliance with any reasonable condition
imposed by the Plan Commission for design, dedication, improvement, and
restrictive use of the land in order to conform to the physical and economical
development of the town and to provide for the safety and general welfare of
the future lot owners in the subdivision and of the town at large.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.012 CITATIONS TO INDIANA CODE.
   Wherever within this chapter, references are made to a particular Indiana
Code citation it shall include any subsequent revision, amendment or
recodification.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.013 RESUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Any revision to an approved plat or amendment to a recorded plat shall
be approved by the Plan Commission by the same procedure, rules, and
regulations as for a new subdivision. The applicant shall make a formal
presentation at a regularly scheduled staff review meeting to determine if a
new public hearing will be required.
   (B)   Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows
1 or more lots containing more than 1 acre of land and there are indications
that the lots may be resubdivided into smaller building sites, the Plan
Commission may require that the parcel of land allow for the future opening of
a street and the ultimate extension of an adjacent street. Construction of an
access road or easement providing for the future opening and extension of a
street may be a requirement of the plat approval.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.014 VACATION.
   The process to vacate a part of a plat, public way or public easement shall
be in compliance with I.C. 36-7-3-10 through 36-7-3-16.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.015 WAIVER.
   (A)   Where the Plan Commission finds that an extraordinary hardship or
practical difficulty may result from strict compliance with these regulations
or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal, the Commission may approve a waiver to these regulations
so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured,
provided that the waiver shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and
purpose of these regulations. Furthermore, the Plan Commission shall not
approve a waiver unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence
presented to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the waiver will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other nearby property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a waiver is based are
unique to the property for which the waiver is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (3)    Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict compliance of these regulations is carried out; and
      (4)   The waiver will not in any manner violate the provisions of the
Zoning Ordinance, Comprehensive Plan, or Thoroughfare Plan as interpreted by
the Commission.
   (B)   The Plan Commission may impose reasonable conditions with a waiver
that may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of these regulations.
   (C)   A request for a waiver shall be submitted in writing by the applicant
with the application for primary approval. The written request shall state
fully the grounds for the waiver as set forth in this section.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.016 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Plan Administrator to enforce these
regulations and to bring any violation or lack of compliance to the attention
of the Town Attorney.
   (B)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any parcel before a plat of
subdivision has been approved by the Plan Commission, in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations and recorded.
   (C)   The division of any parcel of land into a subdivision, as defined in
these regulations, by the use of metes and bounds description for the purpose
of sale, or transfer, or lease resulting in the creation of 1 or more new
building sites shall not be eligible for a building permit.
   (D)    No improvement location permit, building permit, or certificate of
occupancy required under the Building Code, the Zoning Ordinance or these
regulations shall be issued on any property subject to these regulations until
the property is in full compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
   (E)   Any person who violates a provision of these regulations shall be
guilty of an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less
than $10 and not more than $300 for each day's violation. The time period of
violation shall be determined by the court.
   (F)   Any land subdivided in violation of the terms of these regulations
after the effective date hereof, is hereby declared to be a common nuisance,
which may be restrained, enjoined or abated in any appropriate action or
proceeding.
   (G)   The Plan Commission may institute any injunction suit requesting a
person or a governmental unit to be directed to remove a structure erected in
violation of these regulations or to make the same comply with its terms. If
the Plan Commission is successful in its suit, the respondent shall bear the
costs of the action including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs,
legal advertising, and professional services.
   (H)   The Plan Commission may institute a suit for mandatory injunction
requesting a person or a governmental unit to be directed, where the person or
governmental unit has violated any provisions of these regulations, to comply
with the provisions of the regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.017 INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. For the purpose of these regulations, certain words or
terms herein shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation or other legal entity as well as an
individual;
      (2)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular;
      (3)   The word SHALL or MUST is a mandatory requirement, the word MAY is
a permissive requirement, and the word SHOULD is a preferred requirement;
      (4)   The words USED or OCCUPIED include the words INTENDED, DESIGNED,
CONSTRUCTED, CONVERTED, ALTERED, or ARRANGED TO BE USED OR OCCUPIED;
      (5)   The word LOT includes the words TRACT, PLOT, or PARCEL; and
      (6)   Any word or term not defined herein shall be given a meaning found
in a standard English dictionary.
   (B)   Definitions. This section explains the meaning of the more important
terms used in the text of these regulations. A graphic illustration of certain
definitions is provided in the Appendix. Any zoning, drainage or erosion
control terms or words used in the text of these regulations but not defined
herein shall have the meaning as defined by the Town of Monrovia Zoning
Ordinance or the Town of Monrovia Drainage, Erosion, and Sediment Control
Ordinance.
      AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials.
      ACCELERATION LANE. An added roadway lane which permits integration and
merging of slower moving vehicles into the main vehicular stream.
      ACCESS ROAD. A street designed to provide vehicular access to abutting
property.
      ACRE. A measure of land area containing 43,560 square feet.
      ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE. The business office the Town of Monrovia.
      ALLEY. A right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk, or easement,
designed to provide a secondary means of access for the special accommodation
of the property it reaches.
      AMENDMENT. A change to a recorded final plat generally affecting the
total subdivision.
      APPLICANT. The owner of real estate or an authorized agent of the owner,
who makes application to the Town of Monrovia for action by the Commission
affecting the real estate owned thereby.
      APPLICATION. A form completed as specified by these regulations and all
accompanying documents required by these regulations for approval for the
application.
      BLOCK. A unit of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets
and public land, railroad right-of-ways, waterways, or any other barrier to the
continuity of development.
      BOND. A surety bond or instrument of credit in a form satisfactory to the
Council.
      BUFFER STRIP. Land area used to visibly separate one use from another or
to shield or block noise, lights, or other nuisances.
      BUILDABLE TRACT. A parcel of land which is eligible for an improvement
location permit in its current form without further subdivision approval.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature.
      BUILDING CODE. The town ordinance establishing and controlling the
standard for constructing buildings, utilities, mechanical equipment and all
forms of structures and permanent installations and related matters, within the
town. Also referred to herein as the Building Code of the Town of Monrovia,
Indiana, Ord. 1987-13, and amendments thereto.
      BUILDING PERMIT. Written permission issued by the Building Commissioner
for the construction, repair, alteration, or addition to a structure.
      BUILDING SITE. An area proposed or provided by grading, filing,
excavating, or other means for erecting pads, slabs, or foundations for
buildings.
      CATCH BASIN. An inlet designed to intercept and redirect surface waters.
      CENTRAL SEWERAGE SYSTEM. An approved sewage disposal system which
provides a collection network and central sewage treatment facility for a
single development, community or region.
      CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A system for common water distribution whether
publicly or privately owned and operated.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by the Building Commissioner
allowing the occupancy or use of a building and certifying that the structure
or use has been constructed and will be used in compliance with all applicable
town codes and ordinances.
      CLERK-TREASURER. That town official empowered to examine and settle all
accounts and demands that are chargeable against the town and not otherwise
provided for by statute.
      COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of the Town of Monrovia, Indiana
established as defined under I.C. 36-7-4-102.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by the
Council, showing the general location and extent of present and proposed
physical facilities including residential, industrial, and commercial uses,
major streets, parks, schools, and other community facilities. This plan
establishes the goals, objective, and policies for the physical development of
the town.
      CONDOMINIUM. The division of building and the related land into
horizontal property interests meeting the requirements of and controlled by
Indiana statutes for condominiums as prescribed by I.C. 32-25.
      CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION. The community association which administers and
maintains the common property and common elements of a condominium development.
      CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat
and showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed
for the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of these regulations
and the conditions of the approval of the plat.
      CONTOUR MAP. A map that displays the land elevations in graphic form; a
topographic map.
      CONTROL OF ACCESS. The condition where the right of owners or occupants
of abutting land or of other persons, to access, including its location onto
connecting streets, is fully or partially controlled by public authority,
including the Commission.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Monrovia.
      COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Health Department of Morgan County,
Indiana.
      COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER. The medical doctor, or his or her authorized
representative, authorized to administer the health regulation within the
county.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A local street or relatively short length with 1 end open to
traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
      CULVERT. A drain or conduit not incorporated in an enclosed system that
carries storm water under a driveway, roadway, railroad, pedestrian walk or
public way.
      CURB. A concrete boundary usually marking the edge of the roadway or
paved area.
      CURB CUT. The opening along the curb line at which point vehicles may
enter or leave the roadway.
      DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interest in land for public use
by the recording of the plat, an ordinance, resolution, entry in the official
minutes, or express manifestation on the part of the owner.
      DEVELOPER. Any person engaged in developing a lot or a group of lots or
structures for use or occupancy.
      DIRECTOR OF PLAN COMMISSION. Director as appointed by Council.
      DRAINAGE. Surface water runoff and the removal of water from land by
drains, grading or other means during and after construction or development.
       DRAINAGE AND UTILITY EASEMENT. An easement specifically provided for the
installation of required drainage improvements, sanitary sewer and water lines
and other utilities. The easement shall provide access to the utility location
easements.
      EASEMENT. An authorization or grant by a property owner to a specific
person, the general public, utilities or other entities for the purpose of
providing the services or access to the property or other properties.
      EGRESS. An exit.
      ELEVATION. A vertical distance above or below a fixed reference level or
a flat scale drawing of the front, rear, or side of a building.
      EXCAVATION. Remove by any means whatsoever of soil, rock, minerals,
mineral substances or organic substances other than vegetation, from water or
land on or beneath the land surface thereof, whether exposed or submerged.
      EXISTING GRADE OR ELEVATION. The vertical location of the ground surface
prior to excavating or filling.
      FINAL PLAT. A diagram drawn to scale showing all essential data
pertaining to the boundaries and subdivision of a tract of land in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      FINISHED ELEVATION. The proposed elevation of the land surface of a site
after completion of all site preparation work.
      GRADE. The slope of a road, street, swale, storm sewer, or other public
improvements, specified in terms of gradient percentage (%).
      GRADIENT. The rising or descending by regular degrees.
      HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. A corporation or other entity that is organized
and operated exclusively for the benefit of 2 or more persons who each own a
dwelling in fee simple and acts in accordance with the articles, bylaws, and
other documents governing the entity.  COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION and BUSINESS PARK
ASSOCIATIONS are included in this definition.
      IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      IDNR. Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit stating that the proposed erection,
construction, enlargement or moving of a building or structure referred to
therein complies with the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
      INDIANA CODE. The document which codifies all Indiana statutes for
reference purposes. The latest edition with any amending supplements must be
referred to for the laws now in force and applicable.
      INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. All equipment and devices necessary
for the proper conduction, collection, storage and treatment for the on-site
disposal of sewage.
      INDOT. Indiana Department of Transportation.
      INGRESS. Access or entry.
      JURISDICTIONAL AREA. The incorporated area of the and town, and other
areas as approved by the Town Council.
      LANDSCAPE. An expanse of natural scenery including the addition of lawns,
trees, plants, and other natural and decorative features of land.
      LEGAL DRAIN. Any drain that has been accepted and is maintained by the
Morgan County Drainage Board in accordance with the 1965 Drainage Act and its
amendments.
      LOCAL ROADS. Streets which provide access to adjacent land, including any
street not classified as an arterial or collector street
      MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. Any security which may be required and accepted by
the Council to assure that necessary improvements will function as required for
a specific period of time.
      MAJOR COLLECTOR ROADS. Streets which:
         (a)   Serve all, or virtually all population centers of 1,000 or more,
as well as provide service to any county seat not on an arterial route, and to
other traffic generators of inter-county importance, such as consolidated
schools, shipping points, town parks, important mining and agricultural areas;
         (b)   Link above places with nearby larger towns or cities or with
routes of high classification; and
         (c)   Serve the most important travel corridors.
      MAJOR STREET. A major street as used in these regulations includes a
minor arterial, major collector and minor collector as defined by the Town of
Monrovia Thoroughfare Plan. A MAJOR STREET would also include any state or
federal route.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of a parcel of land into more than 3
residential, commercial, or industrial lots or any size subdivision requiring
any new street.
      MINOR ARTERIAL ROADS. Streets which:
         (a)   Link cities and larger towns (and other traffic generators, such
as major resort areas, that are capable of attracting travel of similarly long
distances) and form an integrated network providing interstate service and
service between towns;
         (b)   Serve all, or virtually all, urban areas with a population of
5,000 or more. The system serves an urban area if it either enters or is
located within 2 miles of the urban boundary;
         (c)   Are spaced at intervals, consistent with population density, so
that all developed areas of the state are within a reasonable distance of an
arterial highway;
         (d)   Provide services to corridors with trip length and travel
density greater than those predominantly served by rural collector or local
systems. Minor design should be expected to provide for relatively high overall
travel speeds with minimum interference to through movement; and
         (e)   Principal, plus minor, arterial systems should contain 6-12% of
total rural miles, with most states falling the 7-10% range.
      MINOR COLLECTOR ROADS. Streets which:
         (a)   Are spaced at intervals, consistent with population density, to
collect traffic from local roads and bring all developed areas within a
reasonable distance of a collector road;
         (b)   Provide service to the remaining smaller communities; and
         (c)    Link the locally important traffic generators with rural areas.
Major, plus minor collectors, should contain 20-25% of total rural miles.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. The subdivision of a parcel of land into not more than
3 residential, commercial, or industrial lots. The parcel shall abut upon an
existing street which is an improved right-of-way maintained by the town or
other governmental entity and not involving any new street.
      MONUMENT. Any permanent marker either of concrete galvanized steel pipe,
or iron or steel rods used to identify the location of a property corner or
other survey point.
      NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision whose intended use is other
than residential, such as commercial or industrial or other public uses. A
nonresidential subdivision shall comply with the applicable provisions of these
regulations.
      ORDINANCE. A Council-adopted law or regulation, including any amendment
or repeal of the same.
      OWNER. A person having sufficient proprietary interest to seek
development of land.
      PARCEL. A lot or tract of land.
      PARK. A tract of land designated and used by the public for active and
passive recreation.
      PAVEMENT. That part of a street having an improved surface of brick,
paving stone, concrete, or asphalt placed on the surface of the land.
      PERIMETER DRAIN. A perforated drain required around an on-site sewage
disposal system.
      PERMEABILITY. The ease with which air, water, or other fluids can move
through soil or rock.
      PLAT. A diagram drawn to scale representing a tract of land, subdivision
or site plan showing the boundaries and locations of individual properties and
streets.
      PLAT REVISION. A change to an approved, unrecorded plat not involving a
significant change from the primary approval.
      PRIMARY APPROVAL. An approval granted to an applicant by the Commission
after having determined in a public hearing that the subdivision complies with
the standards prescribed in these regulations as defined by I.C. 36-7-4-702,
prior to secondary approval.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement, facility or service, together with
its associated public site or right-of-way, necessary to provide
transportation, drainage, public or private utilities, energy or similar
essential services, and maintained by the proper agencies.
      PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting announced and advertised in advance and open to
the public with the public given an opportunity to appear and be heard.
      PUBLIC MEETING. A meeting announced and advertised in advance and open to
the public. The public may or may not be heard.
      PUBLIC NOTICE. The advertisement of a public hearing in a paper of
general circulation in the area indicating the time, place, and nature of the
public hearing as required by I.C. 36-7-4-706, or the posting of a public
meeting notice as required by the I.C. 5-3-1.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Any entity providing essential services whether town
owned, municipally owned, investor owned or subscriber owned under the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission.
      PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY. All facilities, equipment and structures
necessary for conducting a service by a government or a public utility.
      PUBLIC SEWER. Any system, other than an individual sewage disposal
system, that is operated by a municipality, governmental agency, or public
utility for collection, treatment and disposal of wastes.
      PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. Any system, other than an individual well, that is
operated by a municipality, governmental agency, or public utility for the
furnishing of potable water.
      REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and
registered, or through reciprocity, permitted to practice in the State of
Indiana.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer properly licensed and
registered in the State of Indiana, or through reciprocity, permitted to
practice in Indiana.
      REPLAT. A change to a portion of a recorded plat affecting a small number
of lots, generally dealing with lot line locations, building setback lines, or
easements.
      RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. A private agreement restricting the use and
occupancy of real estate which is a part of the conveyance and is binding on
all subsequent purchasers.
      RESUBDIVISION. A revision to a previously approved plat or an amendment
to a previously recorded plat.
      SANITARY SEWER. A pipe that carries sewage and into which storm, surface
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
      SECRETARY OF THE PLAN COMMISSION. A person appointed by the Director of
the Plan Commission.
      SCREENING. A method of visually shielding or obscuring one abutting or
nearby structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms or densely
planted vegetation.
      SECONDARY APPROVAL. The formal approval of a final plat of a subdivision,
after expiration of the time provided for appeal under §
153.043 of these regulations, and after the conditions of primary approval set
forth in §
153.044 have been satisfied.
      SIDEWALK. A paved, surfaced or leveled area, usually parallel to and
separate from the street, used as a pedestrian walkway.
      SKETCH PLAN. A rough map of a proposed subdivision or site plan of
sufficient accuracy to be used for the purpose of discussion and
classification.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A governmental agency that provides
advice to communities, agencies and individuals within its jurisdiction, and
reviews development proposals for soil erosion and sediment control measures.
      SOIL MAP. A map delineating soil types that are part of a Soil
Conservation Service soil survey of the County.
      SPECIFICATION. A detailed instruction which designates the quality and
quantity of materials and workmanship expected in the construction of a
structure.
      STREET. A general term denoting a public way for purposes of vehicular
travel, including the entire area within the right-of-way.
      STREET CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM. A hierarchy of roads as shown on the
Thoroughfare Plan and designated in the Comprehensive Plan to be used for the
development and improvement of the town street system.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into 2 or more lots,
parcels, sites, units, plats, or interests for the purpose of sale, lease, or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms, and conditions, including resubdivision. SUBDIVISION includes the
division and development of land zoned for residential, commercial, and
industrial uses, whether by deed, metes and bounds description, lease, map,
plat, intestacy, device or other recorded instrument. The following kinds of
division of existing parcels of land are exempt from this chapter:
         (a)   A division of land into 2 or more tracts all of which are at
least 5 acres in size;
         (b)   A division of land for the sale or exchange of tracts to correct
errors in an existing legal description, provided that no additional building
sites other than for accessory buildings are created by the division;
         (c)   A division of land for the acquisition of street right-of-way or
easement;
         (d)   A division of land for the sale or exchange of tracts between
adjoining land owners, provided that no additional building site other than for
accessory buildings are created by the division;
         (e)   A division of land into cemetery plots for the purpose of burial
of corpses; and
         (f)   A division of land to be subdivided for agricultural use only,
provided that no additional building site is created by this division.
      SUBDIVISION STREET. A road which provides access to lots within a
subdivision that is constructed by a developer and is generally dedicated to
the town for maintenance.
      SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A perforated drain required parallel to a street and
surrounded by stone.
      TEMPORARY CUL-DE-SAC. A turnaround located at the end of a stub street
intended to be replaced when the adjoining area is developed and a through
street connection is made.
      TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT. An improvement built and maintained by a developer
during construction of a subdivision which is intended to be replaced by a
permanent improvement or removed prior to release of the performance guarantee.
      THOROUGHFARE MAP. A legally adopted map that indicates the location of
existing or proposed thoroughfares, including their street classification,
alignment, and rights-of-way.
      TILE DRAIN. A perforated drain required parallel to a swale or ditch.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The configuration of a surface area showing relative
elevations.
      TOWN. The Town of Monrovia, Indiana.
      TOWN ATTORNEY. The licensed attorney designated by the Council to furnish
legal assistance for the town.
      TOWN ENGINEER. The certified professional engineer or firm appointed by
the town to furnish engineering assistance in the administration of these
regulations.
      TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager for the Town of Monrovia.
      TOWN STREET SUPERINTENDENT. That town official appointed by the town
responsible for planning, directing, and managing Highway Department
operations, bridge crews, and activities of the town garage.
      TOWN STAFF or TOWN PLAN COMMISSION STAFF. Staff as appointed by Plan
Commission.
      UNIMPROVED LAND. Land in its natural state before development.
      UTILITY LOCATION EASEMENT. An easement provided solely for the purpose of
placing the utility lines such as electric, gas, water and communication.
      VICINITY MAP. A drawing which sets forth by dimensions or other means,
the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other nearby
developments or landmarks and community facilities and services within the town
in order to better locate and orient the area in question.
      WAIVER. A variance of the provisions of these regulations which would
result in unnecessary and undue hardship as determined by the Commission.
      WALKWAY. A dedicated public or private way for pedestrian and
nonmotorized vehicular use only.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.018 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Introduction. This chapter sets forth the general improvements
required for major or minor subdivisions. It explains what government standards
and regulator functions are involved and must be coordinated in carrying out
the Comprehensive Plan. Its provisions help to ensure the protection of the
health and welfare of the future occupant of an approved subdivision, assure
the quality of new development and minimize the adverse effects of the
construction of subdivisions on surrounding environment.
   (B)   Conformance.
      (1)    In addition to these regulations, all subdivision plans shall
comply with the following laws, rules and regulations:
         (a)   All applicable federal, state, and local statutory provisions;
         (b)   The Zoning Ordinance; Building Code, Storm Drainage, Erosion,
and Sediment Control Ordinance; and all other applicable laws of the town;
         (c)   The Comprehensive Plan, including all streets, drainage systems,
and park systems shown on the Land Use Plan;
         (d)   Any rules or regulations of the Morgan County Health Department
or corresponding state agencies;
         (e)   The rules and regulations of the Indiana Department of
Transportation if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state or
federal highway; and
         (f)   The highway and drainage standards and regulations adopted by
the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Subdivision approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in
conformity with the above guidelines, requirements or these regulations.
   (C)   Covenants. If the developer places a restriction on any of the land
contained in the subdivision which is greater than but not in conflict with
those required by the Zoning Ordinance or these regulations, the restriction or
reference thereto shall be required to be indicated on the final plat, and the
Commission shall require that the restrictive covenants be recorded.
   (D)   Plats crossing governmental boundaries. Whenever access to the
subdivision is required across land in another governmental jurisdiction, the
Commission shall request assurance from the other governmental jurisdiction
that access is legally established and the access road is adequately improved,
or that a performance guarantee has been duly executed and is sufficient in
amount to assure the construction of the access road. Lot lines shall be laid
out so as not to cross governmental boundary lines.
   (E)   Boundary improvements. The developer shall cause to be placed, under
the supervision of a registered land surveyor, boundary corner markers on the
perimeter of the subdivision being platted at all corners and angle points
therein. Permanent monuments shall be placed on the center line of streets at
all points of curvature, tangency, intersection and radius points at cul-de-
sacs in accordance with 865 I.A.C. 1.1-12.
   (F)   Character of the land. Land which the Commission finds to be
unsuitable for subdivision because of flooding, improper drainage, steep
slopes, rock formations, adverse earth foundations, topography, utility
easements, or other features which will reasonably be harmful to the safety,
health, and general welfare of the present or future inhabitants of the
subdivision or by its surrounding area, shall not be subdivided unless an
adequate method is formulated by the developer and approved by the Commission
to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions.
   (G)   Subdivision names. The proposed name of the subdivision shall not
duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other
subdivision in the area covered by these regulations. The Commission shall have
final authority to approve the name of the subdivision which shall be
determined at the time of primary approval. In the event the developer intends
to develop the subdivision in phases, the name of the subdivision shall
incorporate by number, and as necessary, the respective phases, sections and
parts in that order.
   (H)   Street names and addresses. Street names and numbers shall conform
with the established pattern in the town and shall be subject to the approval
of the Commission. The street names for all lots shall be assigned by the Plan
Commission and listed on the final plat prior to final approval.
   (I)   Lot improvements.
      (1)   Lot dimensions and area.
         (a)   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of the
Zoning Ordinance. Where lots are more than double the minimum requirement for
the zoning district in which the subdivision is located, the Commission may
require that the lots be arranged so as to allow further subdivision and the
opening of future streets where they would be necessary to serve potential
lots, in compliance with the Zoning Ordinance and these regulations;
         (b)   Side lot lines should be at right angles to street lines (radial
to curving street lines) unless a deviation from this rule will give a better
street or lot plan;
         (c)   The depth of any lot should not be more than 3 times the width
of the lot. Lots with a depth greater than 3 times the width may be allowed by
the Commission upon unusual circumstances such as extreme hardship, topography
or unusable remnants under conditions of extreme hardship or unusual conditions
of topography; and
         (d)   Lot areas as specified in the Zoning Ordinance shall exclude all
unusable areas such as wet/dry detention basins, areas below normal pool level
of lakes and ponds, floodways, cliffs and other steep, unstable slopes,
easements for high pressure petroleum pipelines and high tension power lines.
      (2)   Double frontage lots and access to lots.
         (a)   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots should be avoided in
residential subdivisions except where necessary to provide separation of
residential development from traffic arterials or collector roads or to
overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation; and
         (b)   Lots in residential subdivisions shall not derive access
exclusively from an arterial or collector road. Where driveway access from an
arterial or collector road may be necessary for several adjoining lots in both
residential and nonresidential subdivisions, the Commission may require that
the lots be served by a combined access or frontage road in order to limit a
possible traffic hazard on the road. Driveways shall be designed and arranged
so as to avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on the roads.
      (3)   Easements.
         (a)   All proposed subdivisions submitted for approval under the
provisions of these regulations shall allocate areas of suitable size and
location, wherever necessary, for drainage/utility easements. As a general
principle, the easements shall be located along both sides of rear lot lines
and the total width of the easements shall be at least a minimum of 30 feet;
and
         (b)   If any stream or necessary surface drainage course is located in
the area proposed to be subdivided, adequate easements along the sides of the
stream or surface drainage course shall be allocated for the purpose of
widening, deepening, sloping, improving or protecting the stream or surface
drainage course. The easements provided must at least cover the floodway of the
stream or surface drainage course.
      (4)   Lot grading. All lots shall be provided positive drainage which
shall be coordinated with the general storm water drainage at the development.
   (J)   Debris and waste. Debris and waste shall be disposed of in compliance
with state regulations and the Town of Monrovia's ordinances. Any items to be
buried must be shown on the approved construction plans and cannot be located
under proposed streets, drainage ways or the building site. Burning of natural
vegetation or structures shall be in accordance with state and local open
burning laws. No burning of construction materials is permitted.
   (K)   Water bodies. If a tract being subdivided contains a water body other
than a temporary detention facility or portion thereof, lot lines shall either
be so drawn as to distribute the entire ownership of the water body among the
fees of adjacent lots, or the Commission may approve an alternative plan
whereby the ownership of and responsibility for safe maintenance of the water
body is placed so that it will not become the responsibility of the town. No
part of the minimum area of a lot required under the Zoning Ordinance may be
satisfied by land which is under water other than a temporary detention
facility or portion thereof.
   (L)   Frontage on an improved street. Every lot appearing upon the proposed
plat shall abut upon or have sufficient and adequate access to, a street
designated and labeled within or on the perimeter of the plat and constructed
or to be constructed in accordance with the requirements, standards and
specifications of these regulations.
   (M)   Public sites. All proposed subdivisions submitted for approval under
the provisions of these regulations shall allocate adequate areas for park,
school, recreational and other public and semipublic sites, wherever necessary
in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and as required by the Commission.
The location, shape, extent and orientation of these areas should be consistent
with existing and proposed topographical and other conditions of the proposed
subdivision. These areas shall be made by one of the following methods:
      (1)   Dedication to public use;
      (2)   Reservation for the use of owners of land contained in the plat, by
deed restriction or covenants which specify how and under what circumstances
the area shall be developed and maintained; or
      (3)   Reservation for acquisition by the town or an agency thereof.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES
§ 153.030 PRELIMINARY CONSULTATIONS.
   Prior to submitting any of the material required by these regulations, the
applicant is encouraged to discuss with the Plan Commission staff the nature of
the land division being proposed. The Plan Commission staff shall inform the
applicant of the classification of the subdivision and the applicable procedure
which shall be followed under these regulations in order to secure approval. At
this consultation, a sketch plan of the development may be proposed for the
Plan Commission staff review. The sketch plan may be a freehand pencil drawing
of the area proposed to be platted or may be in a similar, legible graphic
medium.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.031 APPLICATION FOR PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit to the Plan Administrator written
application for primary approval on forms available at the Town Municipal
Center. This application and 4 blue line or black line prints of the
preliminary plan of the proposed subdivision, shall be filed with the Plan
Administrator at least 30 days before the meeting at which the Commission is
expected to consider the application. If the thirtieth day falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or town holiday, then the application deadline is set for the previous
working day.
   (B)   The application shall include a description of all contiguous holdings
of the owner with an indication of the portion which is proposed to be
subdivided, accompanied by a properly executed affidavit of ownership.
   (C)   The Plan Administrator shall retain 1 copy of the plans for review.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.032 FEES.
   An applicant shall pay the specified fees at the time of filing the
application for primary approval. The application fee and design review fee
shall be established by the Town of Monrovia Fee Ordinance and shall be
nonrefundable.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.033 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The preliminary plan shall be drawn at a standard engineering scale of not
more than 100 feet to 1 inch. The maximum page size should not exceed 24 inches
by 36 inches, if feasible. For the ease of reading and clearly showing detail
on the preliminary plan, additional sheets may be necessary. The match lines
shall follow lot lines or streets whenever possible. The preliminary plan shall
contain the following information:
   (A)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   Project name, developer, project engineer or surveyor, their
addresses and telephone numbers, legal description, date of plans and any
revisions, scale of plan, and north point;
      (2)   Area vicinity map detailing project environs, current zoning,
adjoining property owners, and streets within 1,000 feet of the project
boundaries;
      (3)   Topography based on mean sea level elevation at a minimum 2-foot
interval for the project and street lines within 1,000 feet of the project
boundaries;
      (4)   The location of existing streams, lakes, ponds, watercourses, and
other flood water runoff channels, the extent of the floodplain at the
established 100-year flood elevation (regulatory floodway), and the limits of
the floodway, all properly identified;
      (5)   The existing location of legal drains, surface and subsurface farm
drains, inlets, and outfalls, easements that are visible or of record, existing
seeps, springs, and wells that are visible or of record;
      (6)   Existing storm and sanitary sewers, inlets, outfalls, existing
septic tank systems, treatment plants, outlets, wells and any other utilities;
      (7)   Existing structures;
      (8)   Identification of jurisdictional wetlands;
      (9)   Boundary and acreage of project site indicated by heavy solid lines
based on a traverse with angular and linear dimensions; and
      (10)   Other significant conditions of the area proposed to be improved.
   (B)   Site improvements.
      (1)   Proposed changes in streams, lakes, swamps, detention basins,
watercourses and flood water runoff channels, floodplains, and the limits of
the floodway, all properly identified;
      (2)   Proposed size and location of legal drains, surface and subsurface
drains, inlets, outfalls, and easements;
      (3)   Proposed size and location, materials, and gradients of storm and
sanitary sewers, inlets and outfalls, on-site sanitary effluent disposal
systems, water mains, fire hydrants, valves and location of affected utilities;
      (4)   Structures to be removed or relocated on the project site;
      (5)   The location and design including curves, grades, elevations and
cross section of proposed streets, roads, sidewalks, culverts, bridges, parking
lots, hard surface areas, including depressed pavements used to convey or
temporarily store overflow from heavier rain storms, and outlets for the
overflow;
      (6)   The cross section of existing streams and floodplains to be
maintained or changed and new channels to be constructed where changes are
proposed or discharge into receiving streams is altered;
      (7)   The drainage, erosion and sediment control measures to be
implemented in accordance with the SDESCO;
      (8)   Landscape plan; and
      (9)   Signage plan.
   (C)   Supporting documentation.
      (1)   Engineering studies that reflect the additional traffic generated
by the proposed project as related to the entrance details and improvements to
the existing road network, including but not limited to, tapers, deceleration
lanes, bypass blisters, traffic control devices and turning lanes at affected
intersections. These studies must be in accordance with AASHTO, INDOT and the
Town of Monrovia Engineer's requirements;
      (2)   An appropriate wetland mitigation plan for any development where
jurisdictional wetlands will be adversely affected;
      (3)   Additional environmental studies for any development that contains
possible contamination, endangered species;
      (4)   An environmental impact study for any development that due to
unusual circumstances may affect the ecosystem of the Town of Monrovia; and
      (5)   Written letter of intent from the appropriate water utility stating
that service will be provided by them to the project with the date of expected
service commencement.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.034 STAFF REVIEW.
   In order to assist the Commission in evaluating a proposed development for
compliance with these regulations, the Plan Commission staff shall review each
application prior to submittal of the application for Commission approval.
   (A)   The Plan Commission staff shall consist of persons selected by the
Commission to assist in review of plans.
   (B)   After the staff review meeting, but prior to the Commission's
scheduled meeting to consider the application, the Plan Commission staff shall
conduct an on-site review. The Plan Commission staff shall then prepare a
letter expressing their comments and recommendations concerning the application
and forward the letter to the Plan Administrator prior to the Commission
meeting.
   (C)   The Plan Commission staff shall consider, but not necessarily be
limited to, compliance with the following:
      (1)   This chapter;
      (2)   Zoning Ordinance;
      (3)   Comprehensive Plan;
      (4)   
Chapter 152 of this code; and
      (5)   Sound engineering practices.
   (D)   The Commission Staff will begin the review process upon receipt of
plans. Comments and recommendations will be sent approximately 2 weeks prior to
the subsequent Plan Commission meeting.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.035 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing for primary approval and
notice of the hearing shall be as provided in the Rules of Procedures of the
Town of Monrovia Plan Commission.
   (B)   In addition, the following notifications are required:
      (1)   The applicant shall notify all affected utility companies in the
same manner as described in the Rules of Procedure of the Town of Monrovia Plan
Commission, and submit with the notice a copy of the preliminary plan;
      (2)   The applicant shall place a sign at the location of the proposed
subdivision property at least 10 days prior to the public hearing. The
applicant shall also provide written certification of sign placement including
date and location; and
      (3)   The Plan Administrator shall place a legal notice in the newspaper
(s) as required on the application form. The applicant shall notify all
adjacent property owners as indicated on the application form.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.036 PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   The Commission shall hold a public hearing for a subdivision not more than
61 days following the proper submittal of a complete application. After the
Commission has reviewed the preliminary plan,
the Plan Commission staff’s recommendations, other agency reports, and heard
testimony submitted at the public hearing, the Commission shall then make its
decision, adopt its findings of fact and announce its decision in public.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.037 WRITTEN FINDINGS OF FACTS.
   (A)   If primary approval is granted or denied at the public hearing, then
the Plan Commission shall state its findings and decisions in writing and it
shall be signed by the President and the Secretary of the Commission.
   (B)   If primary approval is denied, the applicant shall correct the
deficiency noted by the Commission prior to resubmitting for primary approval
as set forth in the Rules of Procedures for the Commission; and
   (C)   The written findings of fact shall be presented to the applicant
within 10 days after the hearing.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.038 REVIEW BY CERTIORARI OF COMMISSION'S DECISION.
   The primary approval or disapproval of a plat by the Commission or the
imposition of a condition on primary approval is a final decision of the
Commission that may be reviewed as provided by I.C. 36-7-4-1016.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.039 EFFECTIVE DATE OF PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   The primary approval shall be effective for a period of 3 years after the
date of primary approval, at the end of which time secondary approval of the
subdivision or any section thereof must have been obtained. Any subdivision not
receiving secondary approval within the period of time set forth herein shall
be null and void, and the developer shall be required to resubmit a new primary
application for review and approval subject to all the zoning restrictions and
subdivision regulations in effect at the time of resubmission. Upon written
request from the applicant, the Commission may extend the primary approval for
2 years beyond the expiration date without further public notice and public
hearing. Request for extension must be received no less that 90 days prior to
expiration of primary approval.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.040 APPLICATION FOR SECONDARY APPROVAL.
   Following primary approval of the preliminary plan, the applicant shall file
with the Plan Administrator an application for secondary approval of a final
plat and construction plans. The application shall:
   (A)   Be submitted on a form available at the Town Municipal Center;
   (B)   Be accompanied by 5 copies of the final plat and construction plans as
described in these regulations;
   (C)   Be accompanied by a properly completed Town/Developer Inspection
Agreement;
   (D)   Be in total compliance with these regulations and the terms or
conditions of primary approval; and
   (E)   Include any federal, state, or other local approval on their official
forms and signed by the proper authority. The Plan Commission may grant
secondary approval contingent upon receipt of these approvals. These approvals
may include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Federal agencies:
         (a)   Federal Communications Commission;
         (b)   Federal Aviation Administration;
         (c)   Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
         (d)   U.S. Army Corp. of Engineers.
      (2)   State agencies:
         (a)   Indiana Department of Environmental Management;
         (b)   Indiana Department of Natural Resources;
         (c)   Indiana Department of Transportation; and
         (d)   Indiana State Department of Health.
      (3)   County agencies:
         (a)   Morgan County Drainage Board;
         (b)   Morgan County Health Department;
         (c)   Morgan County Highway Department; and
         (d)   SWCD.
      (4)   Other local entities:
         (a)   Monroe Gregg School Corporation;
         (b)   Fire Department; and
         (c)   Police Department.
      (5)   Public or private utilities for sanitary sewer or water services;
energy, and communication utilities.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.041 FEES.
   An applicant shall pay the specified fees at the time of filing the
application for secondary approval. The application fee and design review fee
shall be established by the Town of Monrovia Fee Ordinance and shall be
nonrefundable.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.042 FINAL PLAT AND CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   The final plat and construction plans shall include the following
information:
   (A)   The final plat shall be drawn in ink on Mylar, or the equivalent, and
submitted on compact disk. All certifications shall be made in permanent black
ink with each signature accompanied by the printed name. The final plat shall
include:
      (1)   The name of the subdivision and phase (if applicable);
      (2)   Location by section, township and range, and by proper legal
description;
      (3)   The signature, seal and certification of a land surveyor registered
in the State of Indiana;
      (4)   Certification and dedication by the legal owner with a notarized
signature;
      (5)   Certification of final approval and signature lines for the
President and the Secretary of the Plan Commission;
      (6)   Scale shown graphically, date, and north point;
      (7)   Boundary lines of plat and acreage thereof, based upon an accurate
survey performed in accordance with 865 I.A.C. Article 1.1, Chapter 12, and
amendments thereto establishing minimum standards for the practice of land
surveying;
      (8)   The true course and distance to the nearest established section
line and official monument which accurately describe the location of the plat;
      (9)   City, town, township, county, or section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by courses and distances;
      (10)   Street designations and labels, in accordance with the provisions
of these regulations and the Thoroughfare Plan, names and lines of all streets
within and on the perimeter of the plat, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths and angles or bearings to streets, alleys and lot lines shown to the
nearest second of an arc;
      (11)   Radii, central angles, tangents, lengths of arcs, curvatures,
angles or bearings at street intersections and a complete street traverse of
each street within and on the perimeter of the plat;
      (12)   Lines of any existing alleys within and on the perimeter of the
plat, with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths;
      (13)   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths together with the area of the lot in square feet. Lot numbers must
be in conformance with lot numbers of the preliminary plan;
      (14)   Lines of all easements provided for public services, drainage and
utilities, with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths. No utility poles or
pedestals shall be set on property lines or in drainage swales;
      (15)   Building setback lines accurately shown with dimensions; Street
number for each lot as assigned by the Plan Commission;
      (16)   The location and description of all subdivision monuments set, or
proposed to be set, as required by 865 I.A.C., Article 1, Rules 1-12. A legend
indicating the monument description may be used;
      (17)   The following statement if the subdivision has received approval
from the Morgan County Drainage Board:
            This subdivision contains   lineal feet of open ditches and lineal
feet of tile drains. The lots in the subdivision are or may be subject to a
drainage assessment under the authority of the Indiana Drainage Code.
   (B)   Detailed construction plans shall show the specific location and
design of improvements to be installed in accordance with the requirements of
these regulations and the conditions of primary approval.
   (C)   Separate plan and profile sheets must be provided for all proposed
streets, storm sewers, and sanitary sewers. All crossings must be shown and
correctly labeled.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.043 APPEAL.
   All decisions of the Plan Commission may be appealed in accordance with I.C.
36-7-4-708.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.044 SECONDARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   Secondary approval may be granted to a plat only after the following
requirements have been satisfied:
      (1)   Expiration of the 30 days under §
153.040 and in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-708;
      (2)   Full compliance with the conditions and requirements set forth by
the Commission for primary approval; and
      (3)   All other provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   After review of all pertinent information, the Plan Commission staff
may grant, deny or continue secondary approval at a meeting not more than 61
days following the proper submittal of a complete application.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.045 WRITTEN FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   If secondary approval is granted or denied at the hearing, then the
Plan Commission staff shall state its findings and decision in writing, and it
shall be signed by the President and the Secretary of the Plan Commission.
   (B)   If secondary approval is denied, the applicant shall correct the
deficiency noted by the Plan Commission staff prior to resubmitting for
secondary approval; and
   (C)   The findings shall be presented to the applicant within 10 days after
the hearing.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.046 APPEALS.
   Appeal of any Plan Commission decision shall be made at the next available
regularly scheduled Plan Commission meeting. All decisions of the Plan
Commission may be appealed in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-707.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.047 MINOR SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A minor subdivision by definition is intended to allow the subdivision
of a buildable tract of land with a reduction of approval time and filing
procedure. It is not the intent of the minor subdivision procedure to
circumvent uniform development plans for a total parcel of land. Therefore,
this procedure may only be used for a total of 3 new building sites provided
that there are no improved public rights-of-way required and that the minor
subdivision meets all the applicable requirements of the Subdivision Control,
Storm Drainage, erosion, and Sediment Control and Zoning Ordinances. Further
subdivision of a minor plat must proceed through the full subdivision
procedure. If the staff feels this procedure is being abused, the applicant
must obtain approval from the Plan Commission prior to using this procedure.
   (B)   The approval procedure for a minor subdivision as described in this
section shall be the same as other subdivisions as described in §§
153.030 through
153.047, with the exception that primary and secondary approval shall be
combined by the Plan Commission into 1 hearing.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.048 PROVISIONS FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Before a final plat is processed for recording by Morgan County, the
developer shall be required to complete, in accordance with the secondary
approval for major subdivision or for minor plats, and to the satisfaction of
the Plan Commission, all improvements as required by these regulations.
Exceptions may be granted for placement of the asphalt surface course, boundary
improvements, certain erosion control measures, sidewalks and/or street lights
(if required), depending on weather conditions. If the developer desires to
have additional exceptions, his or her request will be reviewed by the Plan
Commission staff and either granted or denied. A performance guarantee shall be
provided by developer, except for certain erosion control measures, as
determined by the Commission. The authority of administration and enforcement
of the performance guarantee shall lie with the Town Council or their
designated representative.
   (B)   The types of performance guarantees allowed are as follows:
      (1)   Completion of improvements. All improvements not covered by a
performance guarantee shall be installed in accordance with the design
standards principles and specifications contained in these regulations and
shall be inspected at the times during construction as required by these
regulations.
      (2)   Performance bond.
         (a)   For those improvements granted an exception from installation
prior to recording a performance bond payable to the Town Council in the amount
equivalent to 110% of the estimated completion costs shall be posted by the
developer prior to recording the final plat.
         (b)   This estimate shall be prepared by the design engineer and
reviewed by the Town Engineer. This performance bond shall comply with all
statutory requirements and shall be satisfactory to the Town Attorney as to
form, sufficiency, and manner of execution;
      (3)   Irrevocable letter of credit. In lieu of a bond, the developer may
submit an irrevocable letter of credit. In the event an irrevocable letter of
credit is utilized, it shall be written for a minimum length of 1 year.
      (4)   Cashier’s check. In lieu of a bond, the developer may submit a
cashier’s check made payable to the Town of Monrovia. This alternative is only
available in amounts of less than $10,000.
   (C)   Any performance guarantee submitted under §
153.030 shall be for a period not to exceed 2 years. The Plan Commission may
grant an extension of up to 1 year for the completion of the improvements,
based upon a request by the developer and evidence justifying the request. The
Plan Commission may secure a new estimate of the cost of the improvements from
the Town Engineer. If the estimate has increased, the Town Council shall
require an increase in the amount of the performance guarantee.
   (D)   A performance guarantee shall be deemed by the Council to be in full
force and effect until the time the guarantee is released by written notice by
the Plan Commission.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of the developer to keep the
performance guarantee current and not allow it to expire until all improvements
have been accepted by the Plan Commission. If the performance guarantee does
expire, no building permits will be issued to those lots within the subdivision
or section thereof which required the performance guarantee until a new
guarantee is provided.
   (F)   Upon completion of the improvements for which a performance guarantee
has been provided, the developer shall request a release of the performance
guarantee from the Town Engineer's Office. The Town's Construction Inspector
will conduct an inspection of the completed improvements. If the improvements
have been completed to the satisfaction of the Town's Construction Inspector
and if a suitable maintenance guarantee has been provided, then the Town
Engineer's Office shall release the performance guarantee. Appeals of the Town
Engineer's Offices decisions shall be made to the Plan Commission.
   (G)   As a condition of acceptance of this improvement on release of the
performance guarantee, the town shall require the developer to post a
maintenance guarantee in an amount equal to 25% of the cost of the
improvements.
      (1)   The maintenance guarantee shall be 1 of the following forms:
         (a)   Maintenance bond. This bond shall comply with all statutory
requirements and shall be satisfactory to the Town Attorney as to form,
sufficiency and manner of execution; or
         (b)   Irrevocable letter of credit. In lieu of such bond, the
developer may submit an irrevocable letter of credit.
      (2)   The maintenance guarantee shall be for a period of 3 years.
      (3)   The procedure for release of a maintenance guarantee is defined in
§
153.048(E) above.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-22-2011)
§ 153.049 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The developer shall be responsible for having all improvements
including utilities inspected for compliance with the approved plans and
provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   The developer shall complete the town/developer inspection agreement
and agree to compensate the town for all costs incurred to provide the
necessary inspections of the project. This cost shall be based upon a standard
hourly rate for the estimated amount of construction time established by the
Town Engineer. This estimate will assume an average of 20 hours of inspection
and testing per week of the project.
   (C)   The developer shall pay the total estimated cost for the inspection
services, as estimated by the Town Engineer, prior to commencement of
construction activities and then will be billed on a regular basis for services
rendered above this estimate. Failure to pay within 30 days shall be grounds
for termination of construction activities. The developer shall pay the total
cost of inspections prior to the final acceptance of the improvements.
   (D)   The developer shall have the sanitary sewer televised by a town
approved contractor two and one-half years after installation, at his own cost
and provide the town an inspection report and a DVD (or equal) to view the
video inspection. Any defects or infiltration shall be repaired at the
developer’s cost prior to the maintenance bond release.
 
   (E)   The developer shall be responsible for providing all documentation and
testing results required for the improvements.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-22-2011)
§ 153.050 DUTIES AND POWERS OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Construction Inspector shall appoint such person(s) as it deems
necessary to accomplish adequate inspection and review of all improvements
constructed within the jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   The Inspector shall perform, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following duties:
      (1)   Monitor work being performed to insure that it complies with the
standards and specifications of these regulations;
      (2)   Maintain an accurate log of his or her inspections and findings.
These logs shall be available at all times to the town's Engineer and
Inspector;
      (3)   Issue directive or stop-work orders when necessary to assure
compliance with the approved plans and these regulations; and
      (4)   Make reports to the Town Engineer when necessary or when requested.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-22-2011)
§ 153.051 TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENTS.
   The developer shall build and pay for the cost of all temporary improvements
required by the Commission and shall maintain these improvements for the period
specified by the Commission. Prior to construction of any temporary facility or
improvement, the developer shall file with the Town Engineer a separate and
satisfactory performance guarantee which shall insure that the temporary
facility will be properly constructed, maintained and removed.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-22-2011)
§ 153.052 AS BUILT PLANS.
   (A)   Upon completion of the improvements, the developer shall submit two
sets of as-built plans and one copy on compact disk to the Plan Administrator's
Office.
   (B)   The as-built plans shall show the actual locations, invert elevations,
specifications, and all materials used for the improvements installed in the
subdivision or section thereof. These plans shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or land surveyor.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-22-2011)
§ 153.053 FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   For a subdivision or section thereof for which no performance
guarantee has been posted, if the improvements are not completed within the
period of validity of the subdivision approval, the final plat or section
thereof shall not be recorded.
   (B)   In those cases where a performance guarantee has been posted and the
improvements have not been installed prior to the expiration of the guarantee,
the town shall declare the guarantee to be in default and cause all
improvements to be installed according to the approved plans, regardless of the
extent of building development at the time the guarantee is declared to be in
default.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-22-2011)
§ 153.054 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   No final plat shall be submitted for recording until it has been thoroughly
reviewed by the design engineer or land surveyor for completeness, accuracy,
and compliance with these regulations and all other applicable rules,
regulations, and laws. No final plat shall be recorded until all applicable
maintenance guarantees, performance guarantees, and as-built plans have been
submitted. The plat shall bear the signatures of the land surveyor, President
and Secretary of the Plan Commission and seals of the land surveyor and the
Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.055 TIME LIMITATION TO RECORD FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Every subdivision plat approved by the Plan Commission staff after the
effective date of these regulations shall be recorded within 3 years after the
date of plat approval.
   (B)   Any plat that is not so recorded within a 3-year period shall, at the
expiration of a 3-year period, become invalid and shall not be entitled to
recording without reapproval by the Commission, in accordance with the same
standards, requirements and procedures specified by these regulations at the
time of reapproval.
   (C)   The Commission may grant 1 extension of the original approval for up
to 3 years. The request shall be made by the developer or his or her agent
before the original approval expires.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.056 AMENDMENTS, REPLATS OR PLAT REVISIONS.
   (A)   Amendments must be certified by the original land surveyor, or in the
event that the surveyor is deceased, incapacitated, or otherwise unavailable to
perform the certification, by an Indiana Registered Land Surveyor employed by
the same firm employing the original Land Surveyor at time of the original plat
recording. The amendment requires a public hearing before the Plan Commission
in compliance with §
153.035.
   (B)   Replats may be certified by any land surveyor registered in Indiana
and require a public hearing before the Plan Commission in compliance with §
153.035.
   (C)   Plat revisions to an unrecorded plat shall be heard by the Plan
Commission staff in the same manner as the Secondary Approval in accordance
with §
153.044.
   (D)   Any revision to an approved but unrecorded plat which, in the opinion
of the Plan Commission staff, involves a significant change must obtain a new
primary approval.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
STREET DESIGN STANDARDS; IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.070 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all
streets shall conform to all of the elements of these regulations. Street
classifications are referred to as either major or minor streets in this
chapter. A major street includes the rural minor arterial, the rural major
collector, and the rural minor collector. A minor street includes the county
local road, subdivision road and cul-de-sac.
   (A)   All streets shall be planned to conform with the Comprehensive Plan
and the Thoroughfare Plan.
   (B)   Whenever a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed major
street, the Commission may require frontage roads, double frontage lots with
screening, a nonaccess easement along the property lines, deep lots, or any
other treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential
properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic. In those
instances where a nonaccess easement is proposed along a state or federal
highway, this easement shall be granted specifically to INDOT.
   (C)   In order to provide a functional town street system, the Commission
shall require a developer to construct access streets to adjoining vacant
undeveloped properties. The coordination of streets from one subdivision to
another is essential to the town in order to provide a continuation of not only
vehicular access, but also for transportation and distribution lines for most
utilities, such as water, sewer, gas, electricity and telephone systems. The
Commission shall determine at the primary hearing the need and location of
these access streets.
   (D)   A proposed street shall provide for the continuation of existing,
planned or platted streets on adjacent property.
   (E)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way or
limited access highway right-of-way the Commission may require a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of the right-of-way at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land. The distances shall
also be determined with due regard for the requirements of the approach grade
of any future grade separation structure.
   (F)   A dead end street shall not be permitted except where a street is
proposed to be and should logically be extended but is not yet constructed. A
temporary cul-de-sac shall be constructed for any dead end street which exceeds
200 feet in length from the nearest intersection. Drainage details for the
temporary cul-de-sac shall be specified by the applicant and approved by the
Commission. A dead end street which does not require a temporary cul-de-sac
shall have adequate drainage provisions as approved by the Commission.
   (G)   A temporary cul-de-sac shall have an easement radius of not less than
50 feet and shall have a driving surface radius of not less than 40 feet. The
cross section of a temporary cul-de-sac shall be installed with the pavement
thickness per ordinance where the future drive will be extended through the
temporary cul-de-sac. The temporary pavement on each side of the future drive
that completes the cul-de-sac shall be installed with a 3-inch HMA Intermediate
(Asphalt Binder) on 6-inch 53# aggregate.
   (H)   An easement providing access to a street shall be prohibited except
where its control and maintenance is defined in a manner approved by the
Commission.
   (I)   The street right-of-way width shall be in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and Thoroughfare Plan and, where not designated therein,
shall be not less than the following:
      (1)   Major Streets:
         (a)   Rural Minor Arterial: 100 feet - *;
            * - State Rds. subject to INDOT R/W review.
         (b)   Rural Major Collector: 100 feet; and
         (c)   Rural Minor Collector: 80 feet.
      (2)   Minor Streets:
         (a)   County Local Street: 50 feet;
         (b)   Subdivision Street: 50 feet; and
         (c)   Cul-de-sac: 100 feet (Diameter).
   (J)   The paved width of all streets shall be adequate to serve the existing
and future estimated traffic load for the development. See the following
tables. A major street shall be surfaced to a minimum width that is determined
by sound engineering design. Where a proposed street is an extension of an
existing paved street which exceeds the minimum dimension set forth above, the
Commission may require the developer to match the width of the existing paved
street.
TABLE 153.070A STREET (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE) STANDARDS.
 
Street         Row Design % Grade C/       Site     Pavement Shoulder Depth &
Classification     Speed          L Radius Distance Width    Width    Materials
Rural Major    (1) (1)    (1)     (1)      (1)      (1)      (1)      (1)
Arterial
Rural Minor    (1) (1)    (1)     (1)      (1)      (1)      (1)      (1)
Arterial
Rural Major    100 50     7       950      475      24       2' p/4'  (2)
Collector                                                    s
Rural Minor    80  45     7       700      400      24       2' p/4'  (2)
Collector                                                    s
County Local   50  45     10      700      400      24       4' s     (2)
Interior Local (3) (3)    (3)     (3)      (3)      (3)      (3)      (3)
(3)
 
   P = Paved.   S = Stone.
(1)   All Rural Major Arterial and Rural Minor Arterial Streets are under the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Department of Transportation and are, therefore,
subject to all design criteria and standards specified by the Indiana
Department of Transportation
(2)   See Table 5.1.B Depth and Materials.
(3)   See Table 5.1.C Residential Local Street (Public or Private) Standards.
NOTE:   Rural Minor Collector Street standards shall be the minimum standard
for all streets, public or private, which serve Industrial or Manufacturing
Zoning Districts. County Local Street standards shall be the minimum for all
streets, public or private, which serve Business Zoning Districts.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
TABLE 153.070B DEPTH AND MATERIALS. (5)
Street Material Rural Major Collector Rural Minor Collector County Local
Street Material   Rural Major Collector Rural Minor Collector County Local
Asphalt Streets
Surface (1)       1.5 inches            1.5 inches            1.5 inches
Binder (2)        3 inches              3 inches              2 inches
Base (2)          6 inches              6 inches              4 inches
Crushed Stone (3) 8 inches              8 inches              8 inches
Subgrade          P                     P                     P
Concrete Streets
Concrete (4)      8 inches              8 inches              7 inches
Crushed Stone     6 inches              6 inches              5 inches
Subgrade          P                     P                     P
 
P = Proof Rolled.
(1)   Asphalt surface to be INDOT #11 mix.
(2)   Binder and Base to be INDOT #9 mix.
(3)   Crushed Stone to be #53's or #53's over #2's.
(4)   Concrete to be 4,000 psi @ 28 days w/5% air.
(5)   Extra thickness and strengths may be required by the Plan Commission,
upon recommendation by the Technical Review Committee, if conditions warrant.
All materials and workmanship to meet AASHTO, INDOT #R, or INDOT Standard
Specifications, most recent edition.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
TABLE 153.070C INTERIOR LOCAL STREET (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE) STANDARDS.
          R/            Design
          W    Surface  Speed,                     Shoulder
District/ Widt Material Sight      Maximum Surface Width &  Curb & Sidewalks Lights
Densit y  h    (2)      Distance & Grade   Width   Material Gutter
          (1)           Centerline
                        Radius
          R/            Design
          W    Surface  Speed,                     Shoulder
District/ Widt Material Sight      Maximum Surface Width &  Curb & Sidewalks Lights
Densit y  h    (2)      Distance & Grade   Width   Material Gutter
          (1)           Centerline
                        Radius
AG / 10   50'  Gravel   (3)        12%     16'     2' Earth No     No        No
or less
11 or          Asph/Co                             2'
more           nc                                  Gravel
R-1 / 10  50'  Gravel   (3)        12%     20'     2' Earth No     No        No
or less
11 or          Asph/Co                             2'
more           nc                                  Gravel
R-2 / 10  50'  Gravel   (3)        12%     22'     2' Earth No     No        No
or less
11 or          Asph/Co                             2'
more           nc                                  Gravel
R-3       50'  Asph/Co  (3)        12%     24'     2' Chip  No     No        No
               nc                                  & Seal
R-4       50'  Asph/Co  (3)        12%     24'     2' Chip  No     No        No
               nc                                  & Seal
R-5       50'  Asph/Co  (3)        8%      24'     0'       Yes    Yes       No
               nc
R-6       50'  Asph/Co  (3)        8%      36'     0'       Yes    Yes       No
               nc
D-1       50'  Asph/Co  (3)        8%      24'     0'       Yes    Yes       Yes
               nc
D-2       50'  Asph/Co  (3)        8%      24'     0'       Yes    Yes       Yes
               nc
A-8       60'  Asph/Co  (3)        8%      36'     0'       Yes    Yes       Yes
               nc
A-16      60'  Asph/Co  (3)        8%      36'     0'       Yes    Yes       Yes
               nc
MD        50'  Asph/Co  (3)        8%      (4)     0'       Yes    Yes       Yes
               nc
 
(1)   Additional right-of-way may be required at subdivision entrances where
required to provide adequate stacking and turn lanes.
(2)   Typical Street Sections for construction cross-sections. See Table 5.1.E.
(3)   Design Speed, Site Distance, Center-line Radius and related standards
shall be equal to or greater than current AASHTO Standards.
(4)   See street standards specified in the MD Zoning District.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ef9553c3d52931a74a9612c32d199b98344ac424/
IMAGES/0-0-0-937.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ef9553c3d52931a74a9612c32d199b98344ac424/
IMAGES/0-0-0-939.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ef9553c3d52931a74a9612c32d199b98344ac424/
IMAGES/0-0-0-941.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ef9553c3d52931a74a9612c32d199b98344ac424/
IMAGES/0-0-0-943.jpg]
 
   (K)   A proposed subdivision street shall be designed to minimize through
traffic movement, however, this does not waive the requirement to construct an
access road to an adjacent property boundary as required by §
153.070(C) or (D).
   (L)   A proposed street shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as
to provide usable lots and a street of reasonable gradient. The grade of all
streets shall not exceed the following, except where an unusual topographic
condition justifies, in the opinion of the Commission, a modification of these
regulations.
      (1)   Major Streets:
         (a)   Rural Minor Arterial: 6%.
         (b)   Rural Major Collector: 6%.
         (c)   Rural Minor Collector: 7%.
      (2)   Minor Streets:
         (a)   County Local Street: 8%.
         (b)   Subdivision Street: 8%.
         (c)   Cul-de-sac: 5%.
   The minimum street grade shall not be less than 0.5%.
   (M)   The horizontal visibility of a curved street and the vertical
visibility on all streets shall be maintained as follows:
      (1)   Major Streets:
         (a)   Rural Minor Arterial: 500 feet.
         (b)   Rural Major Collector: 500 feet.
         (c)   Rural Minor Collector: 500 feet.
      (2)   Minor Streets:
         (a)   County Local Street: 300 feet.
         (b)   Subdivision Street: 200 feet.
         (c)   Cul-de-sac: 200 feet.
   Site distance shall be measured in accordance with the AASHTO guidelines.
   (N)   A reverse curve on a major street shall have a straight tangent
between elements of the reverse curve of not less than 100 feet.
   (O)   Horizontal curvature measured along the center line shall have a
minimum radius as follows:
      (1)   Major Streets:
         (a)   Rural Minor Arterial: 775 feet.
         (b)   Rural Major Collector: 500 feet.
         (c)   Rural Minor Collector: 400 feet.
      (2)   Minor Streets:
         (a)   County Local Street: 400 feet.
         (b)   Subdivision Street: 150 feet.
         (c)   Cul-de-sac: 100 feet.
   (P)   The sections above deal with minimum requirements. Individual
projects, particularly commercial and industrial subdivisions, may warrant
additional requirements dictated by sound engineering design. The additional
requirements must be specified by the Commission at primary approval.
   (Q)   Access roads from a proposed development onto an existing or proposed
town street may be denied or restricted. A traffic impact study or traffic
operations analysis may be required by the Commission. If, in the opinion of
the Commission, the proposed access road presents a potential hazard to the
motoring public, the Commission may require the applicant to make improvements
to an existing or proposed town street as a condition of allowing access. An
applicant may be required to provide traffic signalization, deceleration lanes,
acceleration lanes, passing blisters or other improvements to the street system
based on the following criteria:
      (1)   Number of lots;
      (2)   Proposed use;
      (3)   Street classification;
      (4)   Traffic generation;
      (5)   Existing or proposed conditions; and
      (6)   Sound engineering design.
      If the Commission determines that improvements to the street system are
necessary they will advise the applicant at the time of primary approval.
   (R)   The number of access roads required into a subdivision will be based
upon the number of lots, sound engineering design and continuity of the town
street system. If the Commission determines that an additional access road is
necessary, they will advise the applicant at the time of primary approval.
   (S)   A cul-de-sac street shall not exceed 600 feet in length measured from
the centerline of the nearest intersection to the center of the cul-de-sac. A
cul-de-sac shall be provided with a turnaround radius of not less than 50 feet
at the right-of-way line and not less than 40 feet at the back of the curb
line. The cul-de-sac shall be paved in accordance with §
153.074.
   (T)   A half street shall be prohibited.
   (U)   In a subdivision that adjoins or includes an existing street that does
not conform to the minimum right-of-way dimension as established by the
Comprehensive Plan and Thoroughfare Plan, the applicant shall dedicate
additional right-of-way width as required to meet these regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.071 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Street curbs shall be rounded by radii of sufficient length to permit
the smooth flow of traffic, but in no case shall the curb radii be less than 25
feet for a minor street, or 40 feet for a major street or a street in a
commercial or industrial development. Greater radii may be required by the Town
Engineer's Office to comply with AASHTO and INDOT design guidelines.
   (B)   Where a proposed street with curbs intersects an existing street
without curbs, the curb radius shall be designed so there is a minimum of 10
feet separation between the curb and edge of the existing street pavement.
   (C)   Street right-of-way at intersections shall be designed to provide a
minimum of 10 feet separation between the street right-of-way and curb.
   (D)   Intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as is possible, and
no intersection shall be at an angle of less than 75%.
   (E)   Intersections of more than 2 streets at 1 point shall not be
permitted. An example of this would be a “5-points” intersection.
   (F)   When a street of lesser functional classification intersects with a
street of greater functional classification the radii arcs at the intersection
will comply with the standards for the street of greater functional
classification.
   (G)   There shall be at least 100 feet of straight street before entering an
intersection for proposed streets.
   (H)   The placement of a driveway which is located near a street
intersection shall be based on sound engineering design.
   (I)   Street intersections shall not be closer than 200 feet center line to
center line for minor streets and 500 feet center line to center line for a
major street. Traffic volume forecasts may require that these distances be
increased for a given project so as to allow for adequate vehicle storage in
turn lanes.
   (J)   When a street of lesser functional classification intersects with a
street of greater functional classification, the pavement thickness of all
improvements within the right-of-way of the intersection shall comply with the
standard for the greater street.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.072 SIGHT DISTANCE AT INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Sight distance shall be determined by measuring from a point 3½ feet
above the roadway surface along a line of sight to a point 6 inches above the
roadway surface.
   (B)   The following items shall be required and must be noted on the final
plat:
      (1)   No fence, wall, hedge, tree or shrub planting or other similar item
which obstructs sight lines at an elevation between 2 and 8 feet above the
street, shall be placed or permitted to remain on any corner lot within the
triangular area formed by the street right-of-way lines and a line connecting
points 25 feet from the intersection of minor street lines and 50 feet from the
intersection of major street lines, or in the case of a rounded property
corner, from the intersection of the street right-of-way lines extended.
      (2)   In the case of a driveway within 10 feet of an intersection of a
street right-of-way or an alley, the same sight line limitation shall apply.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.073 BUILDING SETBACK LINE.
   The building setback line shall be regulated by the setback provisions of
the Zoning Ordinance applicable to the area proposed to be subdivided. The
minimum building setback line shall be measured from the edge of the street
right-of-way line but in no instance shall be less than the following:
   (A)   Major Streets: 75 feet.
   (B)   County Local Streets: 50 feet.
   (C)   Subdivision Streets: 25 feet.
   (D)   Cul-de-sac: 25 feet.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.074 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In general, a street shall be completed to the grade shown on the plan
and profile sheet. A plan and profile sheet for each street shall be provided
by the developer and prepared by a registered professional engineer or
registered land surveyor.
   (B)   The minimum requirements for street construction shall be in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Specifications of the Indiana
Department of Transportation, in effect at the time of approval. (Hereinafter
referred to as the Standard Specifications). A copy of the Standard
Specifications is on file in the Office of the Town Engineer.
      (1)   The subgrade shall be prepared in compliance with § 207 of the
Standard Specifications.
      (2)   The subbase, where required, shall be prepared in compliance with §
304 of the Standard Specifications. Subbase drainage in areas of cuts, swales,
and fills shall be detailed in the approved plans and specifications.
      (3)   The street surface shall be of Portland cement concrete or hot
asphaltic concrete. Portland cement concrete materials and construction shall
be in compliance with § 501 of the Standard Specifications and these
regulations. Hot asphaltic concrete materials and construction shall be in
compliance with § 402 of the Standard Specifications and these regulations.
   (C)   All utility excavations under the pavement shall be backfilled with
preapproved borrow or flowable mortar and construction shall conform to §§ 211
or 213 of the Standard Specifications or compacted thoroughly by other means.
Any other means must be approved by the Town Engineer prior to construction.
   (D)   Wet spots or other unusual soil conditions may be encountered in
street subgrades. These areas may require any or all of the following
treatments as determined by the Town Engineer:
      (1)   Four-inch PVC underdrains which extend under the subbase and
connect directly to the subsurface drains shall be placed at regular intervals
through the wet areas;
      (2)   Direct aggregate ties between the subsurface drain and street
aggregate subbase shall be placed in the wet area;
      (3)   Four inches of aggregate (#53 stone) shall be added to the street
cross section in addition to the minimum base requirement;
      (4)   Soft spots may be over excavated and back filled with compacted
aggregate; or
      (5)   Use of filter fabric or lime stabilization may be used. Use of
either of these methods shall not imply an approval of a reduction of the
required street cross section.
   (E)   The actual design for street construction shall be based upon
estimated traffic loading with an adequate growth factor included even though
the minimum requirements may be exceeded.
   (F)   The cross sections of streets are to be designed according to AASHTO
standards using a combination of soil support values, total equivalent 18-kip
single axle loads, terminal service ability index, and regional factors. The
Town Engineer's Office will have the typical pavement cross sections included
in the Standard Specifications.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.075 JOINTS.
   Rigid pavement shall be jointed in order to control cracking. Joints shall
be constructed in accordance with the type, dimensions, and at the locations
required by Standard Specifications, these regulations, or as directed by the
Town Engineer's Office.
   (A)   Spacing of weakened plane, transverse, or contraction joints shall not
exceed 20 feet. Closer spacing to average 15 feet is encouraged. A transverse
contraction joint may either be formed or sawed dummy grove, ribbon or pre-
molded strip type, and shall be 1/4 the thickness of the pavement.
   (B)   When a transverse joint is to be formed by sawing, care must be taken
to saw the grooves soon after placing the concrete to prevent the formation of
cracks due to contraction of the slab.
   (C)   One of the above named joints shall be placed at every catch basin and
manhole in the line of pavement. The location of manholes in the pavement shall
determine the exact location of the joints.
   (D)   All joints shall extend throughout the curb to the full width of
pavement.
   (E)   A transverse expansion joint shall be placed at tee intersections,
tangent points of sharp curves, and wherever else shown on the plans.
   (F)   Whenever the width between forms of the pavement under construction is
greater than 12 feet, a longitudinal joint shall be constructed so as to divide
the pavement into strips not to exceed 12 feet each. This may be accomplished
by sawing or by installing a slot or groove as herein described for a
contraction joint.
   (G)   White membrane curing compound AASHTO Number 2-M-14B must be properly
applied to give complete coverage immediately after finishing.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.076 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   A 2-foot concrete curb and gutter shall be required or most
subdivision streets. No open ditches with side slopes steeper that 3:1 will be
allowed. No open ditch shall exceed 3 feet in depth.
   (B)   Materials, concrete specifications and construction procedure shall
comply with § 501 of the Standard Specifications.
   (C)   Valley gutters which connect gutters and drain across street
intersections or driveways are strictly prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.077 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalks are required along both sides of all proposed and existing
streets and streets in all subdivisions.
   (B)   A plan for a sidewalk system shall be prepared that will provide every
lot within a subdivision, or portion thereof, with reasonable access to a
sidewalk connection with all of the community facilities, commercial
enterprises and other residential subdivisions located near or adjacent to the
subdivision, and in a manner that will provide safe and convenient pedestrian
circulation throughout the neighborhood or area in which the subdivision is
located and which will avoid pedestrian and vehicular traffic conflict whenever
feasible.
   (C)   Sidewalk materials and construction requirements shall conform to the
Standard Specifications, Section 604, and shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Be constructed only of Portland Cement concrete unless otherwise
expressly approved by the Town Engineer;
      (2)   Have a minimum depth of 4 inches;
      (3)   Have a minimum depth of 6 inches when built in an area of proposed
vehicular crossing;
      (4)   Have a slope of 1/4 inch per foot toward the street (except where
prohibited by topography);
      (5)   Be located at least 1 foot from the right-of-way property line;
      (6)   Have consistency, slump, and mixture specifications as established
by the Standard Specifications;
      (7)   Be jointed every 4 feet with expansion joints every 40 feet to
prevent cracking and heaving;
      (8)   Handicapped ramps shall be installed at all intersections and at
all other locations where required for compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act; and
      (9)   Have a minimum width as follows:
         (a)   One- or 2-Family Developments: 4 feet;
         (b)   Multifamily Developments: 5 feet; and
         (c)   Commercial or Industrial: as approved by the Commission.
   (D)   In order to facilitate pedestrian access from the street to schools,
parks, playgrounds, or other nearby streets, the Commission may require a
perpetual unobstructed easement at least 20 feet in width. This easement shall
be indicated on both the preliminary and final plats. The construction details
shall be shown on the construction plans and must be specifically approved by
the Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.078 SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGNS, STREET IDENTIFICATION SIGNS AND
REGULATORY SIGNS.
   (A)   Street identification signs must be installed at each street
intersection within and on the perimeter of the subdivision. The sign shall be
located at the northeast corner of the interchange wherever possible.
   (B)   Street identification signs and regulatory signs shall comply with the
current issue of Indiana Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices regarding
size, material, reflectivity and location. Street identification signs for
public streets shall be white letters on a green background. Street
identification signs for private streets shall be white letters on a blue
background.
   (C)   Regulatory signs shall be placed in accordance with the current issue
of the Indiana Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices or as directed by Town
Engineer's Office.
   (D)   Sign locations must be shown on the development plan.
   (E)   Subdivision identification signs shall not interfere with sight
distance requirements. Their placement and design must be submitted to the
Commission for approval. No subdivision identification signage shall be
constructed unless approved by the Commission. The Commission reserves the
right to reject any proposed signage.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
WATER FACILITIES
§ 153.090 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The developer shall provide a public water supply system in a manner
prescribed by the latest edition of the Recommended Standards for Water Works,
published by Health Research Inc., Health Education Services Division, P.O. Box
7126, Albany, New York 12224 (commonly known as the Ten State Standards).
   (B)   The developer shall install adequate water facilities including fire
hydrants. The water facilities must be shown on the approved construction
plans.
   (C)    A water main extension shall be approved by the officially designated
agency of the state, town and/or municipality concerned. The design and
construction must comply with all applicable federal, state and local
regulations.
   (D)   A letter of intent to provide service must be provided from the
appropriate utility prior to primary approval.
   (E)   The Commission reserves the right to approve subdivision plans
contingent upon receipt of approval of water system design by IDEM and/or other
appropriate parties.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.091 INDIVIDUAL WELLS AND CENTRAL WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   If a public water system is not feasible, as determined by the
Commission, individual wells may be used, provided they are installed in
accordance with all applicable state and county health department requirements
(if available).
   (B)   If a public water system is not feasible, an appropriate water source,
as determined by the Commission, and central water distribution system, may be
used provided that they meet all applicable federal, state and town
requirements.
   (C)   A central water distribution system must be designed and constructed
in a manner that provides an adequate supply of potable water to every lot in
the subdivision. A central water system shall be approved by IDEM. This
approval shall be submitted prior to secondary approval.
   (D)   If the Commission requires that a connection to a public water main be
eventually provided as a condition for approval of an individual well or
central water system, the developer shall make arrangements for future water
service at the time the plat receives secondary approval. A performance
guarantee may be required to insure compliance.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.092 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions except those having
lots served by individual wells. No water lines shall be placed that are
smaller than six inches in diameter, and where necessary, eight inches shall be
required. All water supply lines shall be sufficient to provide a flow rate of
water capable of providing fire protection. Fire hydrants shall be required for
all new development where the parcel of land is divided into more than two
housing sites and their locations shall be approved by the fire department. If
a building site has no access to piped water, the fire protection level shall
meet the state standards.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004; Am. Ord. 04-2019, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 153.093 DRY HYDRANTS.
   In those subdivisions where a central water system is not available and
where a permanent lake will be constructed, the developer shall provide dry
hydrants in cooperation with the affected fire department.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
SEWAGE FACILITIES
§ 153.105 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Each lot must either have access to sanitary sewer facilities or meet
individual on-site sewage system criteria. The Commission reserves the right to
approve subdivision plans contingent upon receipt of approval of sewage system
design by IDEM, IDNR, and/or other appropriate parties.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.106 SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where required, the developer shall install the necessary sanitary
sewers and sanitary sewer facilities in compliance with the rules, regulations,
and standards of the town and other appropriate state and federal agencies.
Plans shall be approved by the above agencies where required by those agencies.
All plan approvals and permits must be obtained prior to secondary approval.
   (B)   A letter of intent to provide service must be provided from the sewer
utility prior to primary approval.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.107 INDIVIDUAL DISPOSAL SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If a public sewer facility is not available, and an individual or
community on-site sewage disposal facility is proposed, the minimum lot area
shall conform to the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance and any ordinance of
the Plan Commission establishing usable lot areas and design standards for an
individual or community on-site sewage disposal facility.
   (B)   These facilities must comply with all applicable rules, regulations
and standards of the appropriate federal, state and local agencies. All plan
approvals and permits must be obtained prior to secondary approval.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS
§ 153.120 GENERAL.
   If a proposed subdivision includes land that is zoned commercial, industrial
or includes land for public uses, the layout of the subdivision with respect to
the land use shall meet any special provisions that the Commission finds
appropriate. A nonresidential subdivision, in addition to complying with these
regulations, shall also be subject to all the requirements set forth in the
Zoning Ordinance. Site Plan approval, as required by the Zoning Ordinance, and
nonresidential subdivision approval may proceed simultaneously at the
discretion of the Commission. It is understood that in some commercial or
industrial subdivisions the exact lot line locations may not be known at the
time of primary approval. Shifts in lot lines, elimination of lots and minor
variations in improvements will not be classified as significant changes as
long as all conditions of primary approval, the provisions of this chapter, the
Zoning Ordinance and the Storm Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance
are met. Adding additional lots or changes that the Plan Commission staff
determine to be significant shall require a new primary hearing and approval.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.121 STANDARDS.
   (A)   In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations which
are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the applicant shall
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Commission, that the street arrangement
proposed is appropriate for the use anticipated and adequately takes into
account other uses in the vicinity.
   (B)   The following principles and standards shall be observed:
      (1)   A nonresidential subdivision must be appropriately zoned for
commercial or industrial use prior to the proposal for a subdivision in
accordance with these regulations;
      (2)   A proposed commercial or industrial parcel shall be suitable in
minimum area and dimensions to the type of industrial development anticipated;
      (3)   The street right-of-way and pavement construction shall be adequate
to accommodate the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated
within and adjacent to the proposed subdivision;
      (4)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Commission with respect
to street, curb, gutter, landscaping, screening and sidewalk design and
construction;
      (5)   A special requirement may be imposed by the Commission with respect
to the design and installation of a public utility, including water, sanitary
sewer, and storm water drainage;
      (6)   Provisions shall be made to protect an adjacent residential area
from potential nuisances created by a proposed commercial or industrial
subdivision, including extra depth in parcels backing onto existing or
potential residential development and a permanently landscaped buffer strip
where necessary; and
      (7)   For a street carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck
traffic, extension to the boundary of an adjacent existing or potential
residential areas may not be required unless in the opinion of the Commission
conditions exist to warrant this extension. A traffic impact study or traffic
operations analysis may be required.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
§ 153.122 PRIVATE STREETS.
   It is the intent and purpose of this section to encourage streets and
rights-of-way to be dedicated to the town for ownership and maintenance
whenever possible. It is a long-range benefit to the entire town for streets
and rights-of-way to be maintained publicly rather than privately. There may
be, however, a situation in which a privately-owned and maintained street is a
more reasonable alternative. In any development in which a private street is
allowed, the street shall conform to §§
153.070 through
153.077.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 154.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s zoning regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2004; Am. Ord. 10-2005, passed 10-10-2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
III.   EASEMENTS AND IMPROVEMENTS
      
IV.   BONDS
      
V.   STREETS
      
VI.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Grants cable television franchise to Comcast Cablevision
1-1997   1-27-1997   of Indianapolis, L.P., its successors and assigns, for 15
                     years.
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
6-    4-28-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from a
1997  1997   R-6 to a CB for the petition of Richard Prescott (ZA 97-01),
             denied.
11-   7-14-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from an
1997  1997   AG to a R-6 for the petition of the Monrovia Planning Commission
             (ZA 97-02), approved.
9-    6-22-  Ordinance from the Plan Commission (PLA 98-01) to rescind the R-
1998  1998   6 zoning on Nancy’s Auto and reinstate the B-2 zoning, approved.
1-    2-22-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from an
1999  1999   AG to a R-3 for the petition of Brian Moench (ZA98-01), approved.
3-    6-14-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from a
1999  1999   R-6 to an NC for the petition of the Plan Commission, approved.
14-   9-17-  Ordinance to amend the zoning map for Locust Grove Subdivision
1999  1999   from AG to R-3 for the petition of the Monrovia Plan Commission
             (PLA 99-07), approved.
15-   11-8-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from HB
1999  1999   to CB for the petitioner John G. Whitney (PLA99-06), approved.
16-   12-13- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
1999  1999   to R-2 for the petitioner Thomas Simpson (PLA99-10), approved.
2-    2-14-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2000  2000   to R-2 for the petitioner Jack R. Hutcherson (ZA00-01), approved.
3-    2-14-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2000  2000   to R-2 for the petitioners Reinhold and Margot Weisser (ZA00-02),
             approved.
4-    2-28-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2000  2000   to R-3 for the petitioners Russell and Arletta Brady (ZA00-05),
             approved.
5-    2-28-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2000  2000   to R-2 for the petitioners Mike and Tammy Beebe (ZA00-07),
             approved.
6-    4-10-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2000  2000   to R-3 for the petitioner Rhonda S. Smith (ZA00-08), approved.
7-    4-24-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2000  2000   to R-3 for the petitioner Dennis L. Lee (ZA00-09), approved.
8-    5-22-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2000  2000   to R-2 for the petitioner Wooded Hills Home Sales, Inc. (ZA00-10),
             approved.
12-   10-9-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2000  2000   to R-3 for the petitioner Danny Gordon (ZA-00-11), approved.
14-   10-23- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2000  2000   to R-3 for the petitioner Rebecca D. Beliles (ZA-00-12), approved.
15-   12-11- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2000  2000   to R-4 for the petitioners Donald F. and Katherine L. Harris (ZA-
             00-14), approved.
            
16-   12-11- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2000  2000   to R-3 for the petitioners Edward R. and Diane M. Olleman (ZA-00-
             15), approved.
3-    2-26-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R-
2001  2001   6 to CB for the petitioner Christina S. Cassidy (ZA-01-01),
             approved.
1-    2-28-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R-
2002  2002   6 to OB for the petitioners Dianne M. and Edward R. Olleman (ZA-
             01-02), approved.
3-    6-10-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2002  2002   to R-3 by the petitioner Gail A. Randall (ZA-02-02), denied.
4-    6-10-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2002  2002   to a planned unit development district by the petitioner Impact
             Development, LLC (ZA-02-01), approved.
7-    7-22-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2002  2002   to R-6 for the petitioner Diversified Properties, Inc. (ZA-02-03),
             approved.
8-    8-12-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2002  2002   to R-2 for the petitioners Sharon and James T. Morgan (ZA-02-04),
             approved.
13-   9-9-   Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2002  2002   to R-3 for the petitioner M. Douglas Kepley (ZA-02-05), approved.
16-   12-9-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2002  2002   to R-2 for the petitioner James A. Siddons (ZA-02-07), approved.
17-   12-9-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2002  2002   to R-2 for the petitioner Dustin Siddons (ZA-02-08), approved.
1-    1-13-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2003  2003   to R-3 for the petitioner Walter Ballou (ZA-02-09), approved.
3-    3-24-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2003  2003   to R-6 for the petitioners Mark Gilkerson and Melvin R. Hall (ZA-
             03-01), approved.
             Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
6-    9-22-  to R-6 for the petitioners Monroe-Gregg School District (ZA-03-03
2003  2003   (A)) and Monroe-Gregg School Building and Renovation Corporation
             (ZA-03-03(B)), approved.
01-   3-8-   Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R-
2004  2004   6 to NC for the petitioner H. Hosten Bible (ZA-04-01), approved.
2-    3-8-   Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R-
2004  2004   6 to NC for the petitioner H. Hosten Bible (ZA-04-02), approved.
3-    3-8-   Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2004  2004   to NC for the petitioners GOD, LLC, owners Jack and Kelly Dillon
             (ZA-04-05), approved.
4-    3-22-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R-
2004  2004   6 to NC for the petitioner Robert L. Marley (ZA-04-03), approved.
5-    3-22-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2004  2004   to OB for the petitioner Monroe Township Fire District (ZA-04-07),
             approved.
6-    4-12-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R-
2004  2004   3 to NC for the petitioner Indiana Propane, LLC, owners Rebecca A.
             and Douglas A. Stokes (ZA-04-06), approved.
7-    5-10-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R-
2004  2004   6 to NC for the petitioner Lena M. Ooley (ZA-04-08), approved.
9-    5-24-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R-
2004  2004   6 to NC for the petitioners Maurice and Sandy Frye (ZA-04-10),
             approved.
10-   6-14-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R-
2004  2004   6 to CB for the petitioners Bradley and Nancy Lee (ZA-04-11),
             approved.
11-   7-12-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R-
2004  2004   6 to CB for the petitioners John and Kathleen Stevens (ZA-04-12),
             approved.
12-   8-9-   Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2004  2004   to R-2 for the petitioner Bonnie J. Criswell (ZA-04-13), approved.
13-   9-27-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2004  2004   to NC for the petitioners John and Amy Faulkenberg (ZA-04-14),
             approved.
18-   12-13- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2004  2004   to a Planned Unit Development district (ZA-04-15), approved
01-   1-10-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R6
2005  2005   to OB for the petitioner David E. Gray (ZA-05-01), approved
02-   2-14-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2005  2005   to R1 for petitioner Betty Trusty (ZA-05-01), approved
03-   3-14-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2005  2005   to R3 for petitioner Ashley R. Blair (ZA-05-02), approved
04-   5-9-   Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from OB
2005  2005   to NC for petitioner Rodney Pheifer (ZA-05-03), approved
05-   5-9-   Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2005  2005   to R2 for petitioners Scott and Beverly Sears, (ZA-05-04),
             approved
06-   6-13-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2005  2005   to a Planned Unit Development and from a Planned Unit Development
             to AG (ZA-05-15), approved.
07-   8-8-   Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2005  2005   to HB for petitioner Ted Everett (ZA-05-06), approved.
08-   8-8-   Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2005  2005   to R3 for petitioner Windsor, LLC, owner Thomas G Kiritsis, Jr.
             (ZA-05-07), approved.
09-   8-8-   Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R6
2005  2005   to CB for petitioners Chris and Jan Binhack (ZA-05-08), approved.
12-   10-10- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2005  2005   to R3 for petitioners Robert C. And Donna E. Hale (ZA-05- 09),
             approved.
13-   10-10- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2005  2005   to NC for petitioner John Faulkenberg (ZA-05-10), approved.
01-   6-25-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R6
2007  2007   to CB for petitioner Clay County Rural Telephone Corp. (ZA-07-01),
             approved
03-   10-22- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2007  2007   to OB and from HB to OB for petitioners Monroe-Gregg School
             District and Morgan County Public Library (ZA-07-03), approved
09-   12-18- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2007  2007   to R3 for petitioners Robert V. and Iva Dean Stader (ZA-07-04),
             approved
10-   12-18- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R6
2007  2007   to NC for petitioner John V. Loudermilk (ZA-07-05), approved
11-   12-18- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2007  2007   to HM for petitioners Richard Culbertson and Amber Stanley (ZA-07-
             06), approved
01-   1-28-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2008  2008   to R3 for petitioner Chris E. Feryman (ZA-08-01), approved
03-   9-22-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R6
2008  2008   to HB for petitioners Sue Karen Sigler andRyan D. Sigler (ZA-08-
             08); approved
2-    6-22-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2009  2009   to GI for petitioner Griffin IEnterprises II, LLC (ZA-09- 01);
             approved
14-   12-19- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2011  2011   to R2 for petitioners Michael L and Peggy L Richhart ZA-11-01);
             approved
4-    6-24-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R6
2013  2013   to CB for petitioner Prescott II, LLC (ZA-13-01); approved
6-    -22-   Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R3
2013  2013   to CR for petitioner Mark Gilkerson (ZA-13-02); approved
03-   9-28-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from HB
2015  2015   to R6 for petitioners Johnny and Carla Kirby (ZA-15-01); approved
01-   5-23-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R6
2016  2016   to CB for petitioners Tyler and Jamie Marshman (ZA-16-01);
             approved
01-   7-10-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2017  2017   to R2 for petitioner Jared Burns (ZA-17-01); approved
02-   7-24-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2017  2017   to R5 for petitioner John Faulkenberg (ZA-17-02); approved
01-   1-13-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
2020  2020   to NC for Fraberg Enterprises LLC (ZA 19-01); approved
2021- 8-24-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R6
05    2021   to NC for petitioner Tiffany and Jason Inglert (ZA 21-01);
             approved
2021- 10-26- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
09    2021   to R2 for petitioner Conard E. Terhune III (ZA 21-03); approved
2021- 10-26- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
10    2021   to R2 for petitioner Sherry L. Whitney (ZA 21-04); approved
2021- 11-23- Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
12    2021   to OB for petitioner Monroe Gregg School District (ZA 21-05);
             approved
2022- 4-26-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from AG
01    2022   to R2 for petitioner Sherry L. Whitney (ZA 22-01); approved
2022- 6-28-  Ordinance to amend the zoning district classification map from R6
02    2022   to NC for petitioner Robbin Pierce; approved
            
 
TABLE III: EASEMENTS AND IMPROVEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
6-2002   7-22-2002   Ordinance to improve outdoor lighting in the town and its
                     buffer zone.
                    
 
TABLE IV: BONDS
 
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
              Ordinance authorizing the acquisition, construction and installation by the
10-    9-27-  town, of the town’s sewage works, the issuance and sale of revenue bonds and
1999   1999   bond anticipation notes, segregation and distribution of revenues of sewage
              works and other related matters.
10-           Amendment and reinstated ordinance authorizing the acquisition, construction
1999   10-25- and installation by the town, of the town’s sewage works, the issuance and
(A.O.) 1999   sale of revenue bonds and bond anticipation notes, segregation and
              distribution of revenues of sewage works and other related matters.
01-    3-6-   Ordinance concerning the refunding by the town of its sewage works revenue
2013   2013   bonds of 1999; authorizing the issuance of sewage works refunding revenue
              bonds for such purpose and other related matters.
             
 
TABLE V: STREETS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
10-1997  6-23-1997   Ordinance to create names and numbers (addresses) for the
                     lots and structures of the town.
03-2007  10-16-2007  Ordinance for certain alley and street right-of-way
Addendum             vacations relating to zoning map amendment (ZA-078-03).
                    
 
TABLE VI: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
02-2008  8-25-08     Ordinance for the annexation of approximately 48.5 acres
                     of land as described therein, approved.
03-2016  8-22-2016   Ordinance for the annexation of real property to the town,
                     approved.
05-2017  11-13-2017  Ordinance annexing real property contiguous to the town,
                     approved.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites          Code Section
1-1-1-5             10.04
1-1-1-7             10.12
1-1-1-8             10.06
1-1-4-5             10.05
1-1-5-1             10.11
1-1-6-1             10.08
3-10-6              32.02
3-10-7              32.02
4-21.5-3-7          151.26
5-2-1-9             32.16;
                    32.19
5-2-8-2             33.36
5-3-1               31.072;
                    153.017
5-11-1-27           Ch. 33, Appendix
5-11-10             33.55
5-11-10-1.6         33.04
5-11-10-2           33.03
5-14-1.5            31.015
5-14-1.5-3.5        31.019
5-14-1.5-3.6        31.019
5-14-1.5-4(a)       31.018
5-14-1.5-4(b)       31.019
5-14-1.5-6.1        31.016
5-14-3              35.53
5-14-3 et seq.      35.50
5-14-3-1            35.50
5-14-3-3            31.016
5-14-3-4            35.53
5-14-3-4(a)         35.56
5-14-3-4(b)         35.56
5-14-3-4(b)(12)     31.016
5-16-9-1            72.04
6-1.1-17            33.21;
                    33.22
6-1.1-17-3          33.20
8-14-1              33.07
8-14-2              33.07
8-23-4              90.07
9-13-2-1            90.02
9-13-2-6            70.01
9-13-2-8            90.02
9-13-2-16           90.02
9-13-2-47           70.01
9-13-2-63           90.02
9-13-2-73           70.01
9-13-2-84           70.01
9-13-2-105          70.01
9-13-2-108          70.01
9-13-2-118          70.01
9-13-2-121          70.01;
                    90.02
9-13-2-122          90.02
9-13-2-136          90.02
9-13-2-144          90.02
9-13-2-155          70.01
9-13-2-157          70.01
9-13-2-178          70.01
9-13-2-179          90.02
9-13-2-196          70.01
9-13-2-196(a)       70.01
9-13-2-196(c)       90.02
9-14-5              72.04
9-18-12             90.03
9-18-19-1(b)        72.04
9-18.1              90.02
9-18.1-8            90.03
9-18.1-14           90.02
9-18.1-14.5         70.01;
                    90.02
9-18.5-8            72.04
9-18.5-34           90.03
9-19                70.01
9-21                70.01
9-21-1-3(a)(14)     71.52
9-21-1-3.3(a)       71.52
9-21-9              71.52
9-21-12-13          70.01
9-21-20-1           70.01
9-21-20-2           70.01
9-21-20-3           70.01
9-22                90.02
9-22-1-1            90.03
9-22-1-2            90.02
9-22-1-4            90.04
9-22-1-5            90.05
9-22-1-7            90.05
9-22-1-8            90.05
9-22-1-11           90.07
9-22-1-12           90.07
9-22-1-13           90.07
9-22-1-14           90.07
9-22-1-15           90.06
9-22-1-16(a)        90.06
9-22-1-16(b)        90.06
9-22-1-17           90.06
9-22-1-18           90.07
9-22-1-19           90.08
9-22-1-31           90.09
9-22-1-32           90.10
9-22-6              90.02;
                    90.08
9-32                70.01;
                    90.02
13-22               31.072
13-23               31.072
13-24               31.072
13-25-4             31.072
13-25-5             31.072
13-25-5-8.5(f)      31.072
14-28-1             152.008
16-18-2-110         70.01
16-22-8             70.01
16-34.5-1-2         31.016
22-9-1-4 et seq.    94.02
22-9.5-1-1 et seq.  94.01
22-9.5-2-2          94.02
22-9.5-2-3          94.02
22-9.5-2-4          94.02
22-9.5-2-8          94.02
22-9.5-2-9          94.02
22-9.5-2-11         94.02
22-9.5-2-13         94.02
22-9.5-3            94.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.    94.09
22-9.5-4-8          94.10
22-9.5-5            94.02
22-9.5-5-1          94.03
22-9.5-6            94.02;
                    94.10
22-13-2-7           151.26
22-13-2-7(b)        151.17
22-15-3-1           151.20
22-15-4-2           151.18
24-14-5             90.05
25                  31.016
31-37-3-2           130.01
31-37-3-3           130.01
32-25               153.017
33-36               34.01
33-36-2-3           34.03
33-36-3-2           34.03
33-36-3-3           34.03;
                    34.05
33-36-3-7           34.03
33-37-8-4           33.36
33-37-8-6           33.36
34-13-3-1 et seq.   35.01;
                    35.02
34-13-3-12          35.02
34-28-5             71.04
35-47-2-3           35.41
35-47-11-2          131.01-
                    131.03
36-1-2-11           90.07
36-1-3-4            153.004
36-1-3-5            153.004
36-1-3-8(a)(10)     10.99
36-1-10             31.016
36-1-11             31.016
36-4-8              33.55
36-5-2-4.1          31.072
36-5-2-4.2          31.071
36-5-2-5            31.005
36-5-2-6            31.002
36-5-2-7            31.004
36-5-2-8            31.021
36-5-2-9            31.003
36-5-2-9.2          31.020
36-5-2-9.4(a)       31.070
36-5-2-9.4(b)       31.071
36-5-2-9.6          31.070
36-5-2-9.8          31.071
36-5-2-10           31.072
36-5-2-10.2         31.073
36-5-3-3            33.20
36-5-3-4            33.21
36-5-3-5            33.22
36-5-4-2            33.01
36-5-4-3            33.02
36-5-4-4            33.03
36-5-4-6            33.04
36-5-4-7            33.05
36-5-4-12           33.06
36-5-4-13(b)        33.07
36-5-6-2            32.03
36-5-6-3(a)         32.01
36-5-6-3(b)         32.02
36-5-6-3(c) - (f)   32.02
36-5-6-4            32.02
36-5-6-5            32.03
36-5-6-5.1          32.05
36-5-6-6            32.03
36-5-6-7            32.04
36-5-6-8            32.04
36-5-6.5            32.03
36-5-7-2            32.15
36-5-7-3            32.16
36-5-7-4            32.17
36-5-7-5            32.18
36-5-7-6            32.19
36-7                31.071;
                    31.072
36-7-3-10–36-7-3-1153.014
36-7-4-102          153.017
36-7-4-700          153.004;
                    153.011
                    152.005;
36-7-4-701          153.009;
                    153.010
36-7-4-702          153.017
36-7-4-706          153.017
36-7-4-707          153.046
36-7-4-708          153.043;
                    153.044
36-7-4-1016         153.038
36-7-4-1109         151.36
36-7-9 et seq.      151.01
36-7-9-2            151.03
36-7-9-4            151.06
36-7-9-14           151.08
36-7-10.1-3         92.07
36-7-10.1-4         92.07
36-8                32.16;
                    32.19
36-9-23             50.44
36-9-23 et seq.     50.46
36-9-23-30          50.43
36-9-30-3           90.07
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.            Date Passed Description
1987-13             - -         153.017
1-1996              3-18-1996   112.01
5-1996              11-11-1996  150.02-
                                150.06
–                 11-25-1996  150.01
1-1997              1-27-1997   TSO I
6-1997              4-28-1997   TSO II
7-1997              4-28-1997   151.15
8-1997              5-12-1997   32.30
9-1997              6-23-1997   35.15
10-1997             6-23-1997   TSO V
11-1997             7-14-1997   TSO II
13-1997             8-25-1997   95.01
14-1997, § 1       8-25-1997   35.25
14-1997, § 2       8-25-1997   35.26
14-1997, § 3       8-25-1997   35.27
                                151.16-
–                 11-5-1997   151.28;
                                151.99
                                94.01;
1-1998              2-23-1998   94.03-
                                94.08;
                                94.10
4-1998              2-9-1998    32.45
8-1998              4-13-1998   33.35
9-1998              6-22-1998   TSO II
11-1998             7-13-1998   32.60
14-1998             1-25-1999   71.04
1-1999              2-22-1999   TSO II
3-1999              6-14-1999   TSO II
6-1999              8-23-1999   33.36
7-1999              8-23-1999   35.41
8-1999              8-23-1999   33.37
9-1999              8-23-1999   33.38
10-1999             9-27-1999   TSO IV
10-1999 (A.O.)      10-25-1999  TSO IV
11-1999             9-27-1999   50.40-
                                50.47
                                50.20-
12-1999             9-27-1999   50.27;
                                50.99
14-1999             9-17-1999   TSO II
15-1999             11-8-1999   TSO II
16-1999             12-13-1999  TSO II
2-2000              2-14-2000   TSO II
3-2000              2-14-2000   TSO II
4-2000              2-28-2000   TSO II
5-2000              2-28-2000   TSO II
6-2000              4-10-2000   TSO II
7-2000              4-24-2000   TSO II
8-2000              5-22-2000   TSO II
12-2000             10-9-2000   TSO II
14-2000             10-23-2000  TSO II
15-2000             12-11-2000  TSO II
16-2000             12-11-2000  TSO II
2-01                2-26-2001   50.43
3-2001              2-26-2001   TSO II
4-2001              2-26-2001   Ch. 73, Sched. I
1-2002              2-28-2002   TSO II
02-2002             3-1-2002    50.43
3-2002              6-10-2002   TSO II
4-2002              6-10-2002   TSO II
6-2002              7-22-2002   TSO II
7-2002              7-22-2002   TSO II
8-2002              8-12-2002   TSO II
13-2002             9-9-2002    TSO II
16-2002             12-9-2002   TSO II
17-2002             12-9-2002   TSO II
1-2003              1-13-2003   TSO II
3-2003              3-24-2003   TSO II
–                 3-25-2003   50.43
–                 4-14-2003   50.43
4-2003              7-14-2003   50.01-
                                50.06
–                 8-25-2003   50.43
01-2004             3-8-2004    TSO II
2-2004              3-8-2004    TSO II
3-2004              3-8-2004    TSO II
4-2004              3-22-2004   TSO II
5-2004              3-22-2004   TSO II
6-2004              4-12-2004   TSO II
7-2004              5-10-2004   TSO II
08-2004             5-24-2004   33.39
9-2004              5-24-2004   TSO II
10-2004             6-14-2004   TSO II
11-2004             7-12-2004   TSO II
12-2004             8-9-2004    TSO II
13-2004             9-27-2004   TSO II
                                152.001-
                                152.015;
                                152.025-
                                152.030;
                                152.045-
                                152.055;
                                152.070-
                                152.078;
                                152.090-
                                152.103;
                                152.115-
                                152.118;
                                152.130-
–                 10-11-2004  152.134;
                                152.146-
                                152.151;
                                153.001-
                                153.018;
                                153.030-
                                153.056;
                                153.070-
                                153.078;
                                153.090-
                                153.093;
                                153.105-
                                153.107;
                                153.120-
                                153.122
–                 10-11-2004  154.01
18-2004             12-13-2004  TSO II
01-2005             1-10-2005   TSO II
02-2005             2-14-2005   TSO II
03-2005             3-14-2005   TSO II
04-2005             5-9-2005    TSO II
05-2005             5-9-2005    TSO II
–                 5-9-2005    50.01
--                  8-25-2005   50.44
--                  9-12-2005   50.43,
                                50.44
06-2005             6-13-2006   TSO II
07-2005             8-8-205     TSO II
08-2005             8-8-2005    TSO II
09-2005             8-8-2005    TSO II
10-2005             10-10-2005  154.01
11-2005             10-10-2005  31.005
12-205              10-10-2005  TSO II
13-2005             10-10-2005  TSO II
--                  6-12-2006   151.20
--                  5-27-2008   32.19
--                  5-27-2008   32.60
03-2006             12-11-2006  33.40
--                  10-16-2007  TSO V
03-2007             10-22-2007  TSO
09-2007             12-18-2007  TSO II
10-2007             12-18-2007  TSO II
11-2007             12-18-2007  TSO II
01-2007             6-25-2007   TSO II
01-2008             1-28-2008   TSO II
02-2008             8-25-2008   TSO VI
03-2008             9-22-2008   TSO II
2-2009              6-22-2009   TSO II
3-2009              10-26-2009  50.43
01-2011             4-25-2011   33.55
8-22-2011           153.048 -
                    153.053
14-2011             12-19-2011  TSO II
11-2012             12-17-2012  30.02
01-2013             3-6-2013    TSO IV
4-2013              6-24-2013   TSO II
5-2013              7-22-2013   31.001
6-2013              -22-2013    TSO II
08-2014             12-22-2014  30.03
02-2015             6-22-2015   50.43
03-2015             9-28-2015   TSO II
01-2016             5-23-2016   TSO II
02-2016             - -2016     33.70,
                                Ch. 33 Appendix
02-2016, Amd. No. 1 1-25-2022   33.70
03-2016             8-22-2016   TSO VI
05-2016             10-3-2016   151.01 -
                                151.08
01-2017             7-10-2017   TSO II
05-2017             11-13-2017  TSO VI
02-2019             8-26-2019   151.35 -
                                151.39
04-2019             11-25-2019  153.092
01-2020             1-13-2020   TSO II
01-2011             2-22-2021   33.55
2021-01             5-24-2021   50.44,
                                50.46
2021-02             5-24-2021   71.50 -
                                71.57
2021-02, Amd. No. 1 8-24-2021   71.51,
                                71.55
2021-05             8-24-2021   TSO II
2021-08             9-28-2021   50.22
2021-09             10-26-2021  TSO II
2021-10             10-26-2021  TSO II
2021-12             11-23-2021  TSO II
2022-01             4-26-2022   TSO II
2022-02             6-28-2022   TSO II
2022-03             7-26-2022   35.50 -
                                35.58
                               
 
 
 
