MONROEVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-16 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23
State legislation current through 2023 Advance Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 529
AN ORDINANCE, APPROVING, ADOPTING, AND ENACTING AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
CO.'S, INDIANA BASIC CODE AS THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF
MONROEVILLE.
   WHEREAS, The present general and permanent ordinances of the Town are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety, and welfare
of the Town and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana empower
and authorize the Board of Trustees of every Town to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the American Legal Publishing Co. publishes a code of ordinances
suitable for adoption by Towns in Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Trustees of the Town of
Monroeville, Indiana, that:
   Section 1. American Legal Publishing Co.'s Indiana Basic Code, as reviewed
and approved by the Board of Trustees, is adopted and enacted.
   Section 2. A summary of the subjects contained in the Indiana Basic Code, as
adopted, is as follows:
                                 TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter 10. General Provisions. This chapter contains general provisions and
rules of construction that are operative throughout the Code.
   Chapter 11. Ordinances Repealed and Saved. This chapter lists ordinances of
the Town specifically saved and those specifically repealed by adoption of the
Code.
                                 TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter 30. Board of Trustees. This chapter contains provisions of state law
dealing with the Board of Trustees, the President of the Board of Trustees, the
division of executive and legislative powers and duties generally, and the
passage of ordinances.
   Chapter 31. Officers and Employees. This chapter contains provisions of
state law dealing with Town officers and employees.
   Chapter 32. Finance and Revenue. This chapter contains provisions of state
law dealing with municipal financial administration.
                                   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter 50. Sewage System. This chapter contains provisions governing the
sewage disposal system in the Town of Monroeville.
   Chapter 51. Waterworks System. This chapter contains provisions governing
the waterworks system in the Town of Monroeville.
                                 TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter 70. General Provisions. This chapter contains provisions applicable
to the entire title and provisions dealing with traffic-control devices.
   Chapter 71. Traffic Rules. This chapter contains provisions governing the
operation of vehicles, as well as provisions concerning parades.
   Chapter 72. Parking Regulations. This chapter contains provisions governing
the parking of vehicles and snow emergencies.
   Chapter 73. Bicycles. This chapter contains provisions governing the
operation of bicycles, snowmobiles and off-the-road vehicles.
   Chapter 74. Traffic Schedules. This chapter designates speed limits and
traffic signs.
   Chapter 75. Parking Schedules. This chapter includes provisions governing
vehicle parking.
                                 TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter 90. Animals. this chapter contains provisions dealing with the
control and treatment of animals in general; and the control, treatment, and
licensing of dogs in particular.
   Chapter 91. Fire Prevention. This chapter contains regulations dealing with
fire prevention.
   Chapter 92. Littering and Posting Notices. This chapter contains regulations
dealing with littering, hauling loose materials, and posting notices.
   Chapter 93. Nuisances. This chapter contains provisions governing conditions
which constitute nuisances and the procedure for abatement of nuisances.
   Chapter 94. Streets and Sidewalks. This chapter contains provisions
governing streets and sidewalks in the areas of excavations, construction, and
obstructions.
                                 TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter 110. Auctioneers, Peddlers, and Transient Merchants. This chapter
contains provisions dealing with the licensing and regulation of auctioneers,
peddlers and transient merchants.
                                 TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter 130. General Offenses. This chapter contains offenses not dealt with
elsewhere in the code.
   Chapter 131. Offenses Against Property. This chapter contains provisions
prohibiting trespassing, injury and vandalism.
   Chapter 132. Offenses against Public Morals. This chapter prohibits indecent
performances.
   Chapter 133. Offenses against Public Order. This chapter prohibits
loitering, vagrancy, issuing false alarms, disturbing the peace and,
unauthorized discharge of firearms.
                                 TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter 150. Safe Building Code. This chapter adopts and implements
provisions of the Indiana Code regarding safe buildings and regulates the use
of scaffolds.
   Chapter 151. Planning and Zoning. This chapter designates the Allen County
Plan Commission and staff of that body as implementers of planning and zoning
in the Town of Monroeville.
                                 TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   The table of Special Ordinances contains tables which set forth acceptances,
annexations, dedications, franchises, street name changes and vacations.
   Section 3. A copy of the Indiana Basic Code, as adopted, shall accompany
this ordinance and shall be made a part of the permanent records of the Town.
   Section 4. All prior ordinances specifically applying to the subjects
treated in said Code other than Planning and Zoning and Subdivision Control
shall be deemed repealed from the effective date of said Code except as they
are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code; provided such
repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right
established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall such repeal
affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase
or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plats or
dedication of land to public use naming or vacating or setting the boundaries
of streets, alleys or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a
temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
   Section 5. Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the President of the Board of Trustees, and the Clerk-Treasurer
of the Town of Monroeville is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of
said Code in the Office of the Clerk-/Treasurer.
   Section 6. Said Code shall be in full force and effect two weeks from the
date of its publication and filing thereof in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer. Said Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of
the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Trustees of the Town of Monroeville,
Indiana this 18th day of June , 1986.
                                                                     BOARD OF
TRUSTEES
ATTEST:
Diane Schane
Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 533
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF MONROEVILLE
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Company of Cincinnati, Ohio has completed
the 1987 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Monroeville
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Company has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, adoption of these recommendations would bring those sections of the
Code of Ordinances of the Town of Monroeville into conformance with the Indiana
Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board of Trustees of the Town of
Monroeville:
   SECTION 1: That the 1987 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Monroeville as submitted by American Legal Publishing Company of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2: That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed by the Town of Monroeville, Indiana this 16th day of September, 1987.
                                 BOARD OF TRUSTEES
                                 OF THE TOWN OF MONROEVILLE
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
ATTEST:
                            
ORDINANCE NO. 589
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENTS TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE
TOWN OF MONROEVILLE
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Company of Cincinnati, Ohio has completed
the Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Monroeville which
supplements contain all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
previously adopted supplements to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality;
and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Company has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, adoption of these recommendations would bring those sections of the
Code of Ordinances of the Town of Monroeville into conformance with the Indiana
Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Monroeville:
   SECTION 1: That the 1988 S-2, S-3; 1991 S-4; 1993 S-5; and 1998 S-
6 Supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Monroeville as submitted
by American Legal Publishing Company of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be
and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2: That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed by the Town of Monroeville, Indiana this 15th day of Dec., 1998.
                                    TOWN COUNCIL OF THE
                                    TOWN OF MONROEVILLE
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
ATTEST:  
                           
Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 604
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
TOWN OF MONROEVILLE
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed 2003 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Monroeville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement of the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinance which are based on or
make reference to section of the Indiana statutes; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Monroeville:
   Section 1. That the 2003 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the date of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council; and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect on the date of adoption.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by Town Council of the Town of Monroeville on this 3rd day
of February, 2004.
                                    Town Council of the
                                    Town of Monroeville, IN
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
Attest:
                           
Clerk - Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of construction
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Construction of section references
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Severability
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Monroeville, Indiana Code of 1985, for which designation "codified ordinances"
or "code" may be substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
Indiana Code.
   (B)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the Indiana
Code, the reference indicates that the section is analogous or similar to the
cited sections in the Indiana Code. Footnotes, cross- references, and other
comments are by way of explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the
text of any section.
   (C)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the municipal corporation unless otherwise
specifically provided.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I not incompatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AND." May be read "OR," and "OR" may be read "AND," if the sense requires
it.
   "ANOTHER." When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   "BOARD OF TRUSTEES." The Board of Trustees of the town.
   "COUNTY." Allen County, Indiana.
   "IC." Refers to the Indiana Code.
   "KEEPER" or "PROPRIETOR." Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves
or as a servant, agent, or employee.
   "LAND" or "REAL ESTATE." Includes rights and easements of incorporeal
nature.
   "MAY." The act referred to is permissive.
   "MONTH." A calendar month.
   "MUNICIPALITY." The municipality of Monroeville, Indiana.
   "OATH." Includes an affirmation.
   "OWNER." When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   "PERSON." Individual, firm, corporation, association, fiduciary, or
governmental entity. (IC 36-1-2-12)
   "PERSONAL PROPERTY." Includes all property except real.
   "POPULATION." Refers to the population according to the most recent federal
special or decennial census, special tabulation, or corrected population count
effective under IC 1-1-3.5. This definition applies even if the reference is to
the most recent federal decennial census. (IC 1-1-4-5)
   "PROPERTY." Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   "PUBLIC AUTHORITY." Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   "PUBLIC PLACE." Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   "REAL PROPERTY." Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   "REGISTERED MAIL." Includes certified mail.
   "SHALL." The act referred to is mandatory.
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STATE." The State of Indiana.
   "STREET." Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the town.
   "SUBCHAPTER." A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
   "TENANT" or "OCCUPANT." As applied to premises, includes any person holding
a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   "TOWN," "MUNICIPAL CORPORATION," "MUNICIPALITY," or "CITY." The municipality
of Monroeville, Indiana.
   "WRITING." Includes any representation of words, letters, or figures,
whether by printing or otherwise.
   "YEAR." A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed. (IC 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance. (IC 1-1-4-1)
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and usual
sense. But technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import. (IC 1-
1-4-1)
   (B)   As used in the code, unless the context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future.
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this code
or any ordinance, the day of the act, event, or default from which the
designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of
the period so computed is to be included unless it is:
         (a)   A Saturday;
         (b)   A Sunday;
         (c)   A legal holiday as defined by state statute; or
         (d)   A day the office in which the act is to be done is closed during
regular business hours.
      (2)   In any event, the period runs until the end of the next day that is
not a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the office is
closed. When the period of time allowed is less than seven days, intermediate
Saturdays, Sundays, legal holidays, and days on which the office is closed
shall be excluded from the computations.
(Trial Rule 6 (A))
      (3)   When a law is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included.
      (4)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
      (5)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or
notice shall mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance
of such duty or compliance with such notice.
   (D)   Act by assistants. When a statute requires an act to be done which, by
law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such requisition shall
be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized agent or deputy.
(IC 1-1-4-1)
   (E)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (F)   Joint authority. Words importing joint authority to three or more
persons shall be construed as authority to a majority of such persons, unless
otherwise declared in the law giving such authority. (IC 1-1-4-1)
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed.
   (B)   When a provision of the code is repealed or amended, the repeal or
amendment does not affect pending actions, prosecutions or proceedings, civil
or criminal. When the repeal or amendment relates to the remedy, it does not
affect pending actions, prosecutions, or proceedings, unless so expressed, nor
does any repeal or amendment affect causes of the action, prosecution, or
proceeding, existing at the time of the amendment or repeal, unless otherwise
expressly provided in the amending or repealing law.
   (C)   When a provision of the code is repealed, the repeal does not:
      (1)   Affect any rights or liabilities which exist, have accrued or have
been incurred by virtue of the repealed provision;
      (2)   Affect an action or proceeding for the enforcement of any rights or
liabilities existing or arising thereunder.
      (3)   Relieve any person from punishment for an act committed in
violation of the repealed provision;
      (4)   Affect an indictment or prosecution for a violation of the repealed
provision.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, the repealed provision shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding the repeal, provided this
does not affect the limitation of actions, prosecutions, or proceedings imposed
by any state statute.
§ 10.07 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
such reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as
subsequently amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject
matter is changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
   (B)   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (C)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by the code.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application. (IC 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.10 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected, and
such word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.14 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1- 70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80, Am.
Ord. passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If an IC cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (IC 36-5-
5-8) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If an IC cite is
set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information,
Example:
      § 31.10 TOWN MANAGER.
         The Board of Trustees establishes hereby the position of Town Manager.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Town Manager, see IC 36-5-5-8
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offender shall be fined
not more than $100 for each offense or violation. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.    BOARD OF TRUSTEES
   
31.    OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
   
32.    FINANCE AND REVENUE
   
33.    DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Designation of legislative body and town executive
   
30.02   Terms of members
   
30.03   Districts
   
30.04   Election
   
30.05   Residency
   
30.06   President of Board
   
30.07   Clerk
   
30.08   Powers and duties
   
30.09   Expiration of term
Passage of Ordinances
   
30.20   Quorum
   
30.21   Majority vote; two-thirds vote
   
30.22   Publication
   
30.23   Recording ordinances
District Boundaries
   
30.35   Establishing districts
   
30.36   District map
   
30.37   Increasing or decreasing territory
§ 30.01 DESIGNATION OF LEGISLATIVE BODY AND TOWN EXECUTIVE.
   The Board of Trustees elected under this chapter is the town legislative
body and shall consist of five members. The President of the Board of Trustees
selected under §
30.06 of this chapter is the town executive.
(IC 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 508, passed 12-1-82)
§ 30.02 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The term of office of a member of the Board of Trustees is four years,
beginning at noon on January 1 after his election and continuing until his
successor is elected and qualified.
(IC 36-5-2-3) (Ord. 508, passed 12-1-82)
§ 30.03 DISTRICTS.
   The town is divided into five districts (or wards) pursuant to the
provisions of IC 36-5-1-10.l and IC 36-5-2-4.l for the purpose of conducting
elections of town officers.
(Ord. 508, passed 12-1-82)
§ 30.04 ELECTION.
   (A)   One resident from each of the five districts shall be elected as a
member of the Board of trustees.
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees from each district shall be
elected at large by the voters of the whole town, and the candidate in each
district receiving the highest number of votes shall be elected to the Town
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 508, passed 12-1-82)
§ 30.05 RESIDENCY.
   (A)   The resident of each district to be elected to the Board of Trustees
must be a bona fide resident of that district at the time of his nomination and
election to the position.
   (B)   If a duly elected member of the Board of Trustees ceases to be a
resident of the district from which he was elected, the membership of the Board
of Trustees shall be considered to be vacated and the same shall be filled, and
a successor shall be appointed pursuant to the appropriate state laws.
(Ord. 508, passed 12-1-82)
§ 30.06 PRESIDENT OF BOARD.
   The Board of Trustees shall select one of its members to be its president
for a definite term, which may not exceed his term of office as a member of the
Board of Trustees.
§ 30.07 CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the clerk of the Board of Trustees. (Ord.
508, passed 12-1-82)
   (B)   Whenever the Board of Trustees has an even number of members for any
reason, the Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(IC 36-5-2-8)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to send a certified copy of §§
30.01 through
30.05 and §§
30.07 and
30.09 to the secretary of the County Election Board for the purpose of
conducting an election in the town on the date of the next general town
election.
(Ord. 508, passed 12-1-82)
§ 30.08 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property, for the use of
the town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(IC 36-5-2-9)
§ 30.09 EXPIRATION OF TERM.
The present membership of the Board of Trustees shall remain unchanged until
the expiration of the terms of its members and the provisions of §§
30.01 through
30.05 and §§
30.07 and
30.09 shall apply to the municipal election preceding the expiration of those
terms.
(Ord. 508, passed 12-1-82)
PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES
§ 30.20 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Board of Trustees constitutes a
quorum.
(IC 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 30.21 MAJORITY VOTE; TWO-THIRDS VOTE.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Board of Trustees be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote
of all the elected members.
   (B)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Board of Trustees be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds
vote of all the elected members.
(IC 36-5-2-9.4)
   (C)   A majority vote of the Board of Trustees is required to pass an
ordinance, unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(IC 36-5-2-9.6)
   (D)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Board of Trustees on the same day or at the same meeting at
which it is introduced.
(IC 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 30.22 PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order, or resolution passed by the Board of Trustees is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of the Board of Trustees.
If required by statute, an adopted ordinance, order, or resolution must be
promulgated or published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by IC 5-3-1,
unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C); or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in one public place in each district in the town.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E), if a town publishes any of its
ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If an
ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division, if authorized by the
legislative body, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a zoning ordinance or amendment to a
zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a comprehensive plan, that is
adopted under IC 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published:
         (a)   One time in accordance with IC 5-3-1; and
         (b)   Not later than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the
legislative body in accordance with IC 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under subdivision (1).
(IC 36-5-2-10)
§ 30.23 RECORDING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Board of Trustees
is adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that
purpose. The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the executive;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(IC 36-5-2-10.2)
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
§ 30.35 ESTABLISHING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   District One.
      (1)   District contains all homes bound by the following loop, as well as
homes on the north side of Willow Run Drive.
      (2)   Start. Intersection of Summit Street and Elm Street:
         (a)   Travel east on Elm Street to intersection with South Street/
SR101;
         (b)   Travel south on South Street/SR101 to Willow Run Drive;
         (c)   Travel east on Willow Run Drive to eastern town boundary;
         (d)   Travel south on eastern town boundary;
         (e)   Travel west on southern town boundary;
         (f)   Travel south on South Street/SR101;
         (g)   Travel west on southern town boundary;
         (h)   Travel north on western town boundary to where Alliger Street
would intersect with the of town boundary if extended west;
         (i)   Travel east on Alliger Street to intersection with Mulberry
Court;
         (j)   Travel north on Mulberry Court to intersection with Dale Spieth
Avenue;
         (k)   Travel east on Dale Spieth Avenue to intersection with Summit
Street; and
      (1)   Travel north on Summit Street to return to starting point at
intersection with Elm Street.
   (B)   District Two.
      (1)   District contains all homes bound by the following loop:
      (2)   Start. Intersection of Summit Street and Elm Street:
         (a)   Travel east on Elm Street to intersection with South Street/
SR101;
         (b)   Travel northwest on South Street/SR101 to intersection with
Mulberry Street;
         (c)   Travel south on Mulberry Street to intersection with Forest
Street;
         (d)   Travel west on Forest Street to next intersection with the town
boundary line just west of Allen Street;
         (e)   Travel south and east along town boundary line continuing to
intersection with Alliger Street;
         (f)   Travel east on Alliger Street to intersection with Mulberry
Court;
         (g)   Travel north on Mulberry Court to intersection with Dale Spieth
Avenue;
         (h)   Travel east on Dale Spieth Avenue to intersection with Summit
Street; and
         (i)   Travel north on Summit Street to return to starting point at
intersection with Elm Street.
   (C)   District Five.
      (1)   District contains all homes bound by the following loop:
      (2)   Start. Intersection of West South Street and Main Street:
         (a)   Travel northeast on Main Street to intersection with Railroad
Street;
         (b)   Travel northwest on Railroad Street to the intersection with
Washington Street;
         (c)   Travel north on Washington Street to the intersection with the
northern town boundary;
         (d)   Travel along the northern town boundary line and continue to the
point where boundary line first intersects with the far eastern boundary of
District One;
         (e)   Travel west along District One boundary to intersection with
East South St/SR101; and
         (f)   Travel north along East South Street/SR101 to return to starting
point.
(Ord. 509, passed 12-1-82; Am. Ord. 577, passed 6-6-95; Am. Ord. 650, passed
10-3-18)
§ 30.36 DISTRICT MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b9548cfcddeb3b4383f187369b7ee12035d59d0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-938.jpg]
(Ord. 509, passed 12-1-82; Am. Ord. 650, passed 10-3-18)
§ 30.37 INCREASING OR DECREASING TERRITORY.
   The districts described in §
30.35 shall hereafter from time to time be increased or decreased by ordinances
either annexing or disannexing territory to the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 509, passed 12-1-82)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Compensation
   
31.02   Advance of vacation pay
   
31.03   Delivery of records to successor
   
31.04   Revocation of licenses
   
31.05   Indemnification and defense of officers and employees
   
31.06   Personal vehicle use reimbursement
Clerk and Treasurer
   
31.40   Service as clerk and fiscal officer
   
31.41   Term
   
31.42   Election
   
31.43   Oaths; depositions; acknowledgments
   
31.44   Powers and duties
   
31.45   Deputies and employees
Town Marshal
   
31.60   Appointment; compensation
   
31.61   Removal; discipline
   
31.62   Powers and duties
   
31.63   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
31.64   Deputy marshals; humane officer
§ 31.01 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of its
own members, the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and the Town Marshal. An ordinance
adopted under this section that fixes the annual compensation of an elected
town officer shall provide for an annual, monthly, or biweekly salary schedule.
An elected town officer is not required to report hours worked and may not be
compensated based on the number of hours worked. The Board of Trustees shall
provide reasonable compensation for other town officers and employees.
   (B)   The compensation of an elected town officer may not be changed in the
year for which it is fixed, nor may it be reduced below the amount fixed for
the previous year.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may provide that town officers (including
elected town officers) and employees receive additional compensation for
services that:
      (1)   Are performed for the town;
      (2)   Are not governmental in nature; and
      (3)   Are connected with the operation of a municipally owned utility or
function.
Subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees, the administrative agency
operating the utility or function shall fix the amount of the additional
compensation, which shall be paid from the revenues of the utility or function.
(IC 36-5-3-2)
§ 31.02 ADVANCE OF VACATION PAY.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay the officer or employee the amount of
compensation the officer or employee will earn while on vacation leave.
(IC 36-5-4-7)
§ 31.03 DELIVERY OF RECORDS TO SUCCESSOR.
   Each town officer shall deliver town records and property in the town
officer’scustody to the town officer’s successor in office when that successor
qualifies.
(IC 36-5-4-10)
§ 31.04 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   The President of the Board of Trustees may revoke or suspend any license
issued by the town if the person holding the license has violated the terms and
conditions of the license or of the law under which it was issued.
(IC 36-5-4-11)
§ 31.05 INDEMNIFICATION AND DEFENSE OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   It is the policy of the town to defend and indemnify all elected officers
and officials and all employees of the town with respect to lawsuits and claims
brought against them for the performance of acts or services and for the
nonperformance of acts or services within the scope of that officer, official,
or employee's duties or employment. However, the provisions of this section
shall not apply if the officer, official, or employee is adequately covered
under an insurance policy of the town.
(Ord. 525, passed 12-18-85)
§ 31.06 PERSONAL VEHICLE USE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever an officer or employee of the town uses his/her personal
vehicle for performing necessary services for town business, such individual
shall be reimbursed therefor on a per-mile rate as described below.
   (B)   In order to receive such reimbursement, such individual must make
claim therefor, which claim shall specify the purpose, the point of origin and
destination, and the exact mileage of such trip. Any such reimbursement shall
be limited only to the mileage incurred on behalf of the town and shall not
include any travel between home and work site or between home and travel
destination. It shall also not include any travel where service performed for
the town are merely incidental to the main purpose of the trip.
   (C)   The amount of reimbursement shall be at the standard mileage rate as
provided in the United States Internal Revenue Code and its regulations in
effect at the time that the mileage was incurred.
(Ord. 568, passed 5-4-93)
CLERK AND TREASURER
§ 31.40 SERVICE AS CLERK AND FISCAL OFFICER.
   Except as provided in IC 36-5-6.5, the Clerk-Treasurer elected under this
chapter is both the town clerk and the town fiscal officer.
(IC 36-5-6-2)
§ 31.41 TERM.
   The term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at noon
on January 1 after his election and continuing until his successor is elected
and qualified.
(IC 36-5-6-3)
§ 31.42 ELECTION.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters of the whole town.
(IC 36-5-6-4)
§ 31.43 OATHS; DEPOSITIONS; ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions, and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(IC 36-5-6-5)
§ 31.44 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   This section does not apply to a town that has adopted an ordinance under IC
36-6-6.5. The Clerk-Treasurer shall:
   (A)   Receive and care for all town monies, and pay them out only on order
of the Board of Trustees;
   (B)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk Treasurer
has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk Treasurer has paid out
town money;
   (C)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
   (D)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers, and employees shall
be paid;
   (E)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments of
town money;
   (F)   Prepare for the Board of Trustees the budget estimates of
miscellaneous revenue, financial statements, and the proposed tax rate;
   (G)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Board of
Trustees;
   (H)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed by
ordinance;
   (I)   Serve as clerk of the Board of Trustees by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
   (J)   Administer oaths, take depositions, and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee.
   (K)   Serve as clerk of the town court under IC 33-53-3-2, if the judge of
the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of the court
under IC 33-35-3-1.
   (L)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(IC 36-5-6-6)
§ 31.45 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer may appoint the number of deputies and employees
authorized by the Board of Trustees. The Clerk-Treasurer's deputies and
employees serve at his pleasure.
(IC 36-5-6-7)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 31.60 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Town Marshal and fix the Town
Marshal’s compensation.
(IC 36-5-7-2)
§ 31.61 REMOVAL; DISCIPLINE.
   The Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees. However, before
terminating or suspending a Marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the law enforcement training board under IC 5-2-1-9, the Board of
Trustees must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedure prescribed
by IC 36-8-1-1 through 36-8-2-13 for city fire and police departments.
(IC 36-5-7-3)
§ 31.62 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the powers
of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Board of
Trustees and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Marshal or the Marshal’s deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to the marshal or deputy by the
town court or Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within the marshal’s or deputy’s view, take them before a court having
jurisdiction, and detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been
investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to the marshal’s or
deputy’s aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(IC 36-5-7-4)
§ 31.63 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Board of Trustees may require the Marshal to serve as Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department, or both.
(IC 36-5-7-5)
§ 31.64 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance authorize the Marshal to
appoint deputy marshals. Deputy marshals have the powers and liabilities of the
Marshal in executing the orders of the Board of Trustees or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One deputy marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. The
designated deputy has the duties prescribed by IC 36-8-1- 1 through 36-8-14-
4 for city humane officers.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall fix the amount of bond, compensation, and
term of service of deputy marshals. The Marshal may dismiss a deputy marshal at
any time. However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the law enforcement training board under IC 5-2-1-9 may be dismissed
only if the procedure prescribed by §
31.61 of this chapter is followed.
(IC 36-5-7-6)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Budget
   
32.01   Preparation of budget estimates
   
32.02   Tax rate; annual appropriations
   
32.03   Revising appropriations
Financial Administration
   
32.20   Issue and sale of bonds
   
32.21   Appropriation required for disbursements
   
32.22   Issue of warrants
   
32.23   Approval of claims
   
32.24   Payment of membership dues to organizations and other expenses
   
32.25   Uniform internal control standards
Town Funds
   
32.35   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
BUDGET
§ 32.01 PREPARATION OF BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by IC 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall formulate
a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following manner, unless
it provides by ordinance for a different manner.
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments.
   (C)   The President of the Board of Trustees shall meet with the department
heads and the Clerk-Treasurer to review and revise their various estimates.
(D)After the President of the Board of Trustees' review and revision, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare for the President of the Board of Trustees a
report of the estimated department budgets, miscellaneous expenses, and
revenues necessary or available to finance the estimates.
(IC 36-5-3-3)
§ 32.02 TAX RATE; ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Board of Trustees under IC 6-1.1-17-1 through 6-1.1-17-19. After reviewing the
report, the Board of Trustees shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of
taxation for the ensuing budget year and an ordinance making appropriations for
the estimated department budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing
budget year. The Board of Trustees, in the appropriation ordinance, may change
any estimated item from the figure submitted in the report of the Clerk-
Treasurer. The Board of Trustees shall promptly act on the appropriation
ordinance.
(IC 36-5-3-4)
§ 32.03 REVISING APPROPRIATIONS.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Board of Trustees may
make further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is
to increase the tax levy set under IC 6-1.1-17-1 through 6-1.1-17-19. The Board
of Trustees may, by ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(IC 36-5-3-5)
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 32.20 ISSUE AND SALE OF BONDS.
   (A)   Subject to I.C. 5-1-11.5 and I.C. 5-11-1-4(c) the Board of Trustees
may issue bonds for the purpose of procuring money to be used in the exercise
of the powers of the town and for the payment of town debts. However, a town
may not issue bonds to procure money to pay current expenses.
   (B)   Bonds issued under this section are payable in the amounts and at the
times determined by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Bonds issued under this section are subject to the provisions of IC 5-
1 and IC 6-1.1-20 relating to the filing of a petition requesting the issuance
of bonds and giving notice of the petition, the giving of notice of a hearing
on the appropriation of the proceeds of bonds, the right of taxpayers to appear
and be heard on the proposed appropriation, the approval of the appropriation
by the department of local government finance, the right of taxpayers and
voters to remonstrate against the issuance of bonds, and the sale of bonds at
public sale for not less than their par value.
(IC 36-5-2-11)
§ 32.21 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED FOR DISBURSEMENTS.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Board of Trustees and recorded in a
book kept for that purpose by the Board of Trustees. Each appropriation must be
made from the fund against which the expenses arose.
§ 32.22 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees or any other board of the town may order the
issuance of warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the
Board of Trustees or such other board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits the town officer’s
office.
(IC 36-5-4-3)
§ 32.23 APPROVAL OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees or any other board of the town may allow a
claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Board of Trustees or such other board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by IC 5-11-10-
2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits the town officer’s
office.
(IC 36-5-4-4)
   (C)   A warrant for payment of a claim against the town may be issued only
if the claim is:
      (1)   Itemized and certified under IC 5-11-10-1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   Certified by the Clerk-Treasurer before payment that each invoice
is true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Board of Trustees or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the claim.
(IC 36-5-4-6)
§ 32.24 PAYMENT OF MEMBERSHIP DUES TO ORGANIZATIONS AND OTHER EXPENSES.
   (A)   The town is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the
General Fund or from other funds to provide membership for the town and the
elected and appointed officials and members of the municipality's trustees,
boards, departments, or agencies in local, regional, state, and national
associations of a civic, educational, or governmental nature, which have as
their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees is further authorized to budget and appropriate
funds to pay the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the
meetings and functions of organizations to which the municipality belongs.
(Ord. 507, passed 7-7-82)
§ 32.25 UNIFORM INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The town adopts as policy the internal control standards as set forth by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control standards for Indiana
Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and published by the Indiana
State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from time to time.
In order to implement these standards, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify in
writing that “PERSONNEL” as defined in statute have received the required
training. All officers, elected officials and employees are required to comply
with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this policy are subject to
discipline, including but not limited to termination of their employment.
(Ord. 642, passed 6-1-16)
TOWN FUNDS
§ 32.35 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, "CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS" shall mean the
construction or improvement of any property owned by the town including but not
limited to streets, thoroughfares, and sewers, and the retirement of general
obligation bonds of the town issued, and the proceeds used for the purpose of
constructing capital improvements. The term "CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT" shall not
include salaries of any public officials or employees except those which are
directly chargeable to a capital improvement.
   (B)   In accordance with the requirements of IC 6-7-1-31.l there is created
a special fund to be known as the Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund of the
town, into which the cigarette taxes allotted to the town by reason of IC 6-7-
1-31.l of the "Indiana Cigarette Tax Law," being IC 6-7-1 as amended shall be
deposited. The Fund shall be a cumulative fund and all the moneys deposited
into the Fund shall be appropriated and used solely for capital improvements as
defined in division (A) of this section, and none of the moneys shall revert to
the General Fund or be used for any purpose other than capital improvements.
(Ord. 444, passed 7-6-65)
CHAPTER 33: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Department of Economic Development
   
33.01   Created; director
   
33.02    Economic Development Commission
   
33.03    Powers
Redevelopment
   
33.10    Monroeville Redevelopment Commission
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 33.01 CREATED; DIRECTOR.
   Pursuant to authority granted by statute, there is hereby created the Town
Economic Development Department. The Town Superintendent of Utilities will be
the director of this department unless the President of the Town Council should
appoint another employee of the town.
(Ord. 567, passed 4-6-93)
§ 33.02 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   The Department of Economic Development shall assist a commission composed of
three members, to be known as the "Monroeville Economic Development
Commission." The members of the Commission shall be appointed and shall perform
the duties and exercise the powers as provided in IC 36-7-12-1 et seq.
(Ord. 567, passed 4-6-93)
§ 33.03 POWERS.
   The Town Economic Development Commission and Town Economic Development
Department shall possess all powers granted by and conduct its affairs in
accordance with IC 36-7-12-1 et seq. as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 567, passed 4-6-93)
REDEVELOPMENT
§ 33.10 MONROEVILLE REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The town hereby creates a redevelopment commission to be known as the
Monroeville Redevelopment Commission.
   (B)   The Monroeville Redevelopment Commission shall be composed of five
members and shall be governed by and operated in accordance with IC 36-7-14-
1 et seq. as that chapter may be amended from time to time. Each Commissioner
initially appointed shall serve from the date of his/her appointment until
January 1, 1997. Thereafter, Commissioners will serve from the first of January
for one year until their successor is appointed.
(Ord. 579, passed 12-5-95)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.    SEWAGE SYSTEM
   
51.   WATERWORKS SYSTEM
   
52
.   REFUSE AND WASTE COLLECTION
   
53.   BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS
CHAPTER 50: SEWAGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   State and federal requirements
   
50.03   Use of sewers required
   
50.04   Private disposal systems
   
50.05   Protection from damage
   
50.06   Resolution of disputes
Building Sewers; Connections
   
50.10   Connection required
   
50.11   Permit required; fee
   
50.12   Costs to be borne by owner
   
50.13   Separate lines required; exception
   
50.14   Use of old sewers
   
50.15   Standards of construction; specifications
   
50.16   Inspections
   
50.17   Excavations to be barricaded
Discharge Regulations
   
50.20   Stormwater, cooling water, and the like
   
50.21   Prohibited discharges
   
50.22   Disposal of objectionable wastes
   
50.23   Pretreatment and flow equalization
   
50.24   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
50.25   Special agreements
   
50.26   Storm water user fees
Monitoring Wastes
   
50.30   Control manholes
   
50.31   Measurements, tests, and analyses
   
50.32   Users' obligation to report unusual discharges
   
50.33   Powers and duties of inspectors
Rates and Charges
   
50.40   Definitions
   
50.41   Applicability; user classes
   
50.42   Determination of rates
   
50.43   Adjustments to charges based on water use
   
50.44   Adjustments to charges based on strength and character of wastes
   
50.45   Billing
   
50.46   Studies to be conducted by town
   
50.47   Special rate contracts
   
50.48   Deposits
   
50.49   Administration of sewerage system
 
   
50.98   Notice of violation
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD)." The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   "BUILDING DRAIN." That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   "BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY." A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   "BUILDING DRAIN, STORM." A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clearwater drainage, but no wastewater.
   "BUILDING SEWER." The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal, also called house connection.
   "BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY." A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   "BUILDING SEWER, STORM." A building sewer which conveys stormwater or other
clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   "COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT." Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants and in fact
does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term "SUBSTANTIAL
DEGREE" is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered compatible include the following.
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand.
      (2)   Total organic carbon.
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds.
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds, and
      (5)   Fats, oils, and greases of animal or vegetable origin, except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works.
   "EASEMENT." An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   "FECAL COLIFORM." Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal
tract of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   "FLOATABLE OIL." Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   "GARBAGE." Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
   "INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT." Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   "INDUSTRIAL WASTES." The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   "INFILTRATION." The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manhole walls. "INFILTRATION"
does not include and is distinguished from "INFLOW."
   "INFILTRATION/INFLOW." The total quantity of water from both infiltration
and inflow without distinguishing the source.
   "INFLOW." The water discharged into a sewer system, including building
drains and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leader,
cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water
discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross
connections from storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters,
surface run-off, street wash waters, or drainage. "INFLOW" does not include,
and is distinguishable from, "INFILTRATION."
   "INSPECTOR." The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Board of Trustees, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers
and their connection to the public sewer system.
   "MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY." An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under Section 307(a) of PL 92-500; and
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   "NPDES PERMIT." A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to Section 402 of PL 92- 500.
   "NATURAL OUTLET." Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   "NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE." See §
50.40.
   "pH." The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   "PERSON." Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
or group discharging any wastewater to the treatment works.
   "PRETREATMENT." The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   "PRIVATE SEWER." A sewer which in not owned by a public authority.
   "PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE." The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than l/2-inch in any dimension.
   "PUBLIC SEWER." A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public
authority and will consist of the following increments.
      "COLLECTOR SEWER." A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      "FORCE MAIN." A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      "INTERCEPTOR SEWER." A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      "PUMPING STATION." A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   "SANITARY SEWER." A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and
to which storm, surface, and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   "SEWAGE." The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions,
including polluted cooling water. The three most common types of sewage are as
follows.
   "COMBINED SEWAGE." Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial sewage,
stormwater, infiltration, and inflow carried to the wastewater treatment
facilities by a combined sewer.
   "INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE." A combination of liquid and water- carried wastes,
discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any trade or
process carried on in that establishment. This shall include the wastes from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
   "SANITARY SEWAGE." The combination of liquid and water- carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   "SEWAGE WORKS." The structures, equipment, and processes to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   "SEWER." A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   "SLUG." Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours'
concentration or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   "STANDARD METHODS." The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest
edition, at the time of analysis, of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater," prepared and published jointly by the American Public
Health Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water
Pollution Control Federation.
   "STORM SEWER." A sewer for conveying water, ground water, or unpolluted
water from any source and to which sanitary or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   "SUPERINTENDENT." The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or his authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   "SUSPENDED SOLIDS." Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   "TOTAL SOLIDS." The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   "TOXIC AMOUNT." Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants, which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations, and physiological
manifestations, as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of PL
92-500.
   "UNPOLLUTED WATER." Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   "VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER." The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C. for 15 to 20 minutes.
   "WATERCOURSE." A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water
either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82; Am. Ord. 616, passed
4-3-07)
§ 50.02 STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state or federal requirements now, or projected to be, in effect.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82)
§ 50.03 USE OF SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town, any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest
under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES.
   Any differences that may arise between users and officials of the sewage
works that cannot be resolved at that level may be appealed    to the Board of
Trustees of the town.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82)
BUILDING SEWERS; CONNECTIONS
§ 50.10 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the town and
abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is required at his expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect the facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that
the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits, one for
residential and commercial service, and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent
shall make application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and
tap fee of $1,000 for residential or commercial building sewer permit inside
the town boundaries and $2,525 outside the town boundaries, and $1,000 for an
industrial building tap and sewer permit inside the town boundaries and $2,525
outside the town boundaries, shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time
application is filed. The amount of the permit fees provided herein shall apply
to all persons, even though they are presently connected to the sewer, as well
as to all persons who connect to the sewer system after November 7, 2006.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 474, passed 11-21-73; Am. Ord. 502, passed
2-17-82; Am. Ord. 554, passed 10-16-90; Am. Ord. 571, passed 12-21-93; Am. Ord.
613, passed 11-7-06) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 COSTS TO BE BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. This shall include any costs of
installation and connection from the building to the sewer main. The owner
shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may be directly or
indirectly caused by the installation of the building sewer. The owner shall
also bear all costs and expenses incurred in repairing the building sewer to
that owner's property line.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82; Am. Ord. 531, passed
2-4-87) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.13 SEPARATE LINES REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. Where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.14 USE OF OLD SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.15 STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointly testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (D)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specficiations of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 441, passed 3-20-63; Am. Ord. 502, passed
2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or his
representative.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 EXCAVATIONS TO BE BARRICADED.
   All excavations for building sewer installation must be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Barriers around excavations, see §
94.04
   Warning lights, see §
94.05
DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
§ 50.20 STORMWATER, COOLING WATER, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Prohibited discharge and required remediation. No water from any roof,
surface, ground, sump pump, footing tile, subsurface drainage, swimming pool,
or any natural precipitation shall be discharged into the sanitary sewage
system. Dwellings and other buildings and structures which require, because of
the infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces, and the like, a sump
pump system to discharge excess water, shall have a permanently installed
discharge line which shall not at any time discharge water into the sanitary
sewage system, except as provided herein. A permanent installation shall be one
which provides for year-around discharge capability to either the outside of
the dwelling, building structure, or is connected to the town storm sewer but
only upon written permission of the town, or discharges through the curb and
gutter to the street. The permanent installation shall consist of a rigid
discharge line, without valving or quick connections for altering the path of
discharge.
   (B)   Disconnection. Before September 1, 2007, any person which discharges
storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
cooling water, unpolluted water, unpolluted industrial process water or
swimming pool water footing tile, sump pump water and any other natural
precipitation into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove
same. Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer shall be closed or
repaired in an effective, workable manner, as approved by the town.
   (C)   Inspection.
      (1)   Every person owning or occupying real estate that discharges into
the town's sanitary sewer system shall allow an employee of the town or his or
her designated representative to inspect inside and around the buildings and
under the grounds to confirm that there is no prohibited discharging into the
sanitary sewer system. If the Superintendent of Utilities agrees in writing
then in lieu of having the town inspect his or her property, any person may
have a licensed plumber inspect the property who can furnish a certificate,
executed under penalties of perjury, describing his or her inspection, and
certifying that the property inspected does not have any unauthorized discharge
into the sanitary sewer. Such certification does not preclude the town from
further inspecting the property upon evidence of a prohibited discharge.
      (2)   Any person refusing to allow his or her property to be inspected by
town employees or the town's designated representatives upon request or
refusing to furnish a plumber's certificate within 30 days of the date town
employee(s) requested inspection of the property, shall immediately become
subject to the surcharge hereinafter provided for. Payment of such surcharge
shall not exempt the owner, nor the property from compliance with this section,
including allowing inspections and required remediation of the discharge. Any
property found to violate this section shall make the necessary changes to
comply with this section and furnish proof of the changes to the town within 30
days from the date of notice of violation, and allow the town to make any
additional inspections necessary to verify compliance. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, if owner or occupant does not furnish a
plumber's certification complying with this section, does not allow inspection,
does not eliminate the prohibited discharge into the sewage system, or does not
otherwise comply with this section, the town may file a lawsuit and can recover
injunctive relief, damages, court costs, and the town's attorneys fees.
   (D)   Future inspections. At any future time, if the town has reason to
suspect that an illegal connection may exist on a premises, and the town serves
written notice on the owner or occupant of the property, the owner or occupant
shall comply with the provisions of division (C) of this section.
   (E)   Waivers. The Town Council shall have the power to hear and decide
requests for waivers from the applicability of the provisions of this section
where strict enforcement would cause severe hardship because of unusual
circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration which
unusual circumstances can include health and/or safety concerns. Application
for waivers pursuant to this section shall be addressed in writing to the Town
Council. The application shall at a minimum identify the property for which the
waiver is being applied for, the name of the property owner and occupant (if
the occupant is different from the owner) and applicant, and describe in detail
what characteristics unique to the subject property create a severe hardship.
Within a reasonable time the Town Council shall make its decision deciding on
the matter and serve a copy of such decision upon the applicant by mail. Upon
approval of an application for a waiver, a property owner shall be allowed to
pump directly into the sanitary sewer system term for the duration stipulated
in the waiver. In any case, where a waiver is requested, waiver will be granted
only upon the owner of the premises, and in the case of rented facilities, both
owner and tenant agreeing, in writing, to pay a sewer surcharge each month in
an amount to be determined by the Town Council, but which shall be not less
than $60. Until the waiver is granted, including while the application is
pending, the owner/occupant shall pay the surcharge.
   (F)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems,
or swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer where it is both
available and where the town determines the storm sewer can accommodate this
discharge. If a storm sewer is not available, or cannot accommodate the
discharge, discharge may be in accordance with division (A).
   (G)   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with division (F)
of this section.
   (H)   Surcharge. A surcharge of $60 per month is hereby imposed and added to
every sewer billing mailed once the property owner has failed to comply with
the provisions of division (C) of this section. The surcharge shall be added to
the bill every month until the property is fully in compliance with this
section.
   (I)   Town self help. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section,
if the town discovers an illegal connection to the sewer system, the town can
either comply with the provisions of this chapter regarding notification of the
owner/occupant or can immediately disconnect the illegal connection. If the
town provides notification and the owner/occupant fails to disconnect, the town
can elect to disconnect the illegal connection and charge the owner/occupant
the reasonable cost of town employees or the actual cost of private contractor
retained to disconnect the connection. In such case, the town will also be
entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys fees and court costs.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82; Am. Ord. 616, passed
4-3-07) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers.
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with    other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structure,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works, or that interfere with any
treatment process.
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but
not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails, paper, paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and
the like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materals, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the Superintendent that these wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are as
follows.
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F. or
65°C.
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F. and 150°F. or 0°C. and
65°C.
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 h.p. metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for discharge to the receiving waters.
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such halflife or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause the following.
         (a)    Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids, such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues; or of
dissolved solids such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate.
         (b)   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions.
         (c)    Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         (d)    Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"SLUGS" as defined in §
50.01.
        (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 DISPOSAL OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTES.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged, to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
50.21(B), and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may:
   (A)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges.
   (B)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town.
   (C)   Require pretreatment of the wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage as defined.
   (D)   Require control or flow equalization of the wastes so as to avoid any
slug loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works.
   (E)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating such wastes.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 PRETREATMENT AND FLOW EQUALIZATION.
   (A)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (B)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalization facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   (C)   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries
prior to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the
rules and regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (USEPA) and published in the Federal Register on August 25, 1978, (43
CFR Part 23), and "Federal Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis
of Pollutants" published in the Federal Register on October 16, 1973, (40 CFR
Part 136), in addition to any more stringent requirements established by the
town, and any subsequent state or federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
   (D)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment of control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of the facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted.
      (1)   Where these facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to determine
that these facilities are being operated in conformance with the applicable
federal, state, and local laws and permits.
      (2)   The owner shall maintain operating records of the influent and
effluent to show the performance of the treatment facilities and for comparison
against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
and other harmful ingredients, except that interceptors or traps will not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the town and shall be located so as to be readily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. They shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of
substantial construction, be gastight, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers.
   (C)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors or traps shall
be maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation
at all times.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rates in this
chapter.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82)
§ 50.26 STORM WATER USER FEES.
   The town shall hereby assess storm water user fees from each property owner
for the operation and maintenance of the storm water system. Such fees shall be
assessed in the amount of $2.96 from each property owner, but the Town Council
shall have discretion to modify said fees in the event that the Town Council,
in its complete and sole discretion, determines that the operation and
maintenance of the storm water system requires it.
(Ord. 636, passed 11-5-13)
MONITORING WASTES
§ 50.30 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   (A)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes.
   (B)   The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (C)   Agents of the town, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies, and
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS, AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than
residential users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows
characteristics. These measurements, tests, and analyses shall be made at the
users' expense. If made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to
the user at the option of the town.
   (B)   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic
establishment of charges provided for in this chapter, from samplings taken at
the aforementioned structure at any period of time and of such duration and in
such manner as the town may elect, or, at any place mutually agreed upon
between the user and the town. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis
may be assessed to the user at the option of the town. The results of routine
sampling and analysis by the user may also be used for determination of charges
after verification by the town.
   (C)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole.
      (1)   Application for NPDES permits and report thereof which shall be
conducted in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the USEPA
published in the Federal Register October 16, 1973, (38 CFR 20758) and any
subsequent revisions subject to approval by the town.
      (2)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
      (3)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.
      (4)   The particular analysis involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analysis are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-84; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82)
§ 50.32 USERS' OBLIGATION TO REPORT UNUSUAL DISCHARGES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 POWERS AND DUTIES OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent, inspector, and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilties for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company. The company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees. The town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its
property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
50.30.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BOARD." The Board of Trustees of Monroeville, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting in its behalf.
   "DEBT SERVICE COSTS." The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   "EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE." An additional charge which is billed to
users for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of "NORMAL
DOMESTIC SEWAGE".
   "INDUSTRIAL WASTES." The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   "NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE." For the purpose of determining surcharges, this
term shall mean wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows: BOD not more than 200 mg/l. S.S. not more than 200 mg/l.
   "OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS." Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving water that conform
with all related federal, state, and local requirements. These costs include
replacement.
   "OTHER SERVICE CHARGES." Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debts service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
   "REPLACEMENT COSTS." The expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful
life of the sewage works equipment to maintain the capacity and performance for
which the works were designed and constructed.
   "USER." Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group that either has a building or occupiable structure on a property which
also has a sewer tap, or that discharges wastewater to the treatment works.
   "USER CHARGE." A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works pursuant to Section 204(b)
of Public Law 92-500.
   "USER CLASS." The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities; that
is, residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental.
   "USER, COMMERCIAL." Any establishment involved in a commercial enterprise,
business, or service which based on a determination by the town, discharges
primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   "USER, GOVERNMENTAL." Any federal, state, or local governmental user of the
wastewater treatment works.
   "USER, INDUSTRIAL." Any manufacturing or processing facility that discharges
industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
   "USER, INSTITUTIONAL." Any establishment involved in a social, charitable,
religious, or educational function which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   "USER, RESIDENTIAL." A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, and the like.
(Ord. 439, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 501, passed 2-17-82; Am. Ord. 531, passed
2-4-87)
§ 50.41 APPLICABILITY; USER CLASSES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the sewage works shall be
charged for the capability of receiving service or the services provided. These
charges are established for each user class, as defined, in order that the
sewage works shall recover, from each user and user class, revenue which is
proportional to its use of the treatment works in terms of volume and load.
User charges are levied to defray the cost of operation and maintenance,
including replacement, of the treatment works. User charges shall be uniform in
magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, published in the Federal
Register September 27, 1978 (43 CFR 44022). Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected
useful life of the sewage works equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the purpose of
this subchapter shall be as follows.
      Class I -   Residential
            Commercial
            Governmental
            Institutional
            Industrial
(Ord. 501, passed 2-17-82; Am. Ord. 531, passed 2-4-87)
§ 50.42 DETERMINATION OF RATES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate, or building that is connected with the town sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the
town. These rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges, and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
   (A)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of water
used on or in the property or premises subject to the rates and charges, as the
same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge based on
the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise provided. For
the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage service, the water
meters shall be read monthly and the users shall be billed each month, or
period equaling a month. The water usage schedule on which the amount of said
rates and charges shall be determined shall be as follows.
All Class I Users
      (1)   Treatment rates per 1,000 gallons of usage per month:   $5.86
plus
      (2)   Base rate per month:
Water Meter (Inches)
Water Meter (Inches)
5/8 to 3/4           $9.10
1                    19.40
1-1/4                29.70
1-1/2                42.00
2                    70.70
3                    159.80
4                    283.00
6                    632.25
 
   (B) For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users or accurate
meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be determined as
follows:
      (1)   For users that do not discharge directly or indirectly into the
sewage system,$9.10 per month.
      (2)   For all other users, the monthly charge shall be determined by
equivalent single-family dwelling units, except as herein provided. Sewage
service bills shall be rendered once each month, or period equaling a month.
The schedule on which the rates and charges shall be determined is as follows.
                                 Monthly Rate 
           Residential:
              Single-family residence/unit         $32.54
   (C)   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges hereinabove provided, or to charges and rates
established in harmony therewith.
   (D)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the town
shall charge the user not less than $25 per sample or costs thereof. This
charge will be reviewed on the same basis as all other rates and charges in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 439, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 495, passed 4-2-80; Am. Ord. 501, passed
2-17-82; Am. Ord. 531, passed 2-4-87; Am. Ord. 621, passed 12-2-08)
§ 50.43 ADJUSTMENTS TO CHARGES BASED ON WATER USE.
   (A)   Town to determine rates, allowances.
      The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the appropriate rates, as provided in §
50.42; except, as is hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make
proper allowances in determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown
on the records to be consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of
the town that the quantities do not enter the sanitary sewerage system.
   (B)   Single lot not measured by meter.
      (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and the water used thereon or
therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not
acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town.
      (2)   In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in this
subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall at his expense, install
and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
   (C)   Two or more lots measured by single meter. In the event two or more
residential lots, parcels of real estate, or buildings discharging sanitary
sewage, water, or other liquids into the town's sanitary sewerage system,
either directly or indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of water is
measured by a single water meter, then in each case, for billing purposes, the
quantity of water used shall be averaged for each user and the base charge and
the flow rates and charges shall apply to each of the number of residential
lots, parcels of real estate, or buildings served through the single water
meter.
   (D)   Two or more dwelling units on single meter.
      (1)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments, or housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other
liquids into the town's sanitary sewerage system, either directly or
indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a
single water meter, then in such case, billing shall be for a single service in
the manner set out elsewhere herein, except that:
      (2)   The minimum bill shall not be less than the number of such dwelling
units times base rated per month of $9.10.
      (3)   In the case of mobile home courts, the number of dwelling units
shall be computed and interpreted as the total number of mobile home spaces
available for rent plus any other dwelling units served through the meter.
      (4) A "DWELLING UNIT" shall be interpreted as a room or rooms or any
other space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (E)   Lot using excess of 25,000 gallons per month. In the event a lot,
parcel of real estate, or building discharges sanitary sewage, industrial
waste, water, or other liquids into the town's sanitary sewerage system, either
directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess of 25,000 gallons per month,
and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the town that a portion of water as
measured by the water meter or meters does not and cannot enter the sanitary
sewage system, then the owner or other interested party shall, at his expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the
determination of sewage discharge.
   (F)   Water used for lawn sprinkling.
      (1)   In order that the domestic and residential users of sewage service
shall not be penalized for sprinkling lawns during the months of June, July,
August, and September, the billing for sewage services for residential or
domestic users for the months of June, July, August, and September shall be
based upon the water usage for the previous months of December, January,
February, and March.
      (2)   In the event the water usage for the previous months of December,
January, February, and March is greater than the water usage of the months of
June, July, August, and September, then the billing for sewage service shall be
computed on the actual water used in the month for which the sewage service
bill is being rendered. It is the intention of the foregoing to bill the
smaller of the water usage of June versus the previous December, July versus
the previous January, and the like.
      (3)   Domestic or residential sewage service as applicable to sprinking
rate shall apply to each lot, parcel of real estate, or building which is
occupied and used as a residence.
      (4)   The sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are
partially or wholly used for commercial or industrial purposes. In the event a
portion of such premises shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes,
the owner shall have the privilege of separating the water service so that the
residential portion of the premises is served through a separate water meter
and in such case the water usage as registered by the water meter serving such
portion of the premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the
sprinkling rate.
(Ord. 439, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 443, passed 2-15-65; Am. Ord. 495, passed
4-20-80; Am. Ord. 501, passed 2-17-82; Am. Ord. 621, passed 12-2-08)
§ 50.44 ADJUSTMENTS TO CHARGES BASED ON STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF WASTES.
   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted to
the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not only on the
volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-normal domestic
sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
   (A)   Strength determined by user. The town shall require the user to
determine the strength and content of all sewage and wastes discharged, either
directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system, in such manner and by
such method as the town may deem practicable in the light of the conditions and
attending circumstances of the case, in order to determine the proper charge.
The user shall furnish a central sampling point available to the town at all
times.
   (B)   Surcharges.
      (1)   Rates. Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a
biochemical oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended
solids in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for
treating stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following
basis.
         (a) Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $.12 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
         (b) Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $.12 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Determination standards. The determination of suspended solids and
five-day BOD contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest copy
of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage, and Industrial
Wastes", as written by the American Public Health Association, the American
Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in
conformance with "Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants", Regulation CFR Part 136, published in the Federal Register on
October 16, 1973.
(Ord. 439, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 501, passed 2-17-82)
§ 50.45 BILLING.
   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by the tenant or tenants, provided that this examination shall
be made at the office at which the records are kept and during the hours that
the office is open for business.
   (C)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the rate
or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates or
charges shall be paid is fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the
bill.
   (D)   In any case where the Board of Trustees determines that there has been
an overcharge or undercharge for the use of the sewer system, the Board will
make a corresponding retroactive price adjustment for maximum of 12 months
prior to the determination or for a lesser period, if that corresponds to the
period of incorrect charges. Upon a determination by the Board that there has
been an overcharge or undercharge, the Clerk-Treasurer will refund to or
collect the amount due from the customer with interest at the rate of 8% per
annum.
(Ord. 439, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 501, passed 2-17-82; Am. Ord. 520, passed
12-19-84)
§ 50.46 STUDIES TO BE CONDUCTED BY TOWN.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation,
following the date on which this subchapter goes into effect. The study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes; the financial position of the sewage works; and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements to the waste
treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. These studies shall be
conducted by officers or employees of the town, by a firm of certified public
accountants or a firm of consulting engineers which firms shall have experience
in these studies, or by such combination of officers, employees, certified
public accountants, or engineers as the town shall determine to be best under
the circumstances.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-17-82)
§ 50.47 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Board of Trustees is authorized to enter into special rate contracts
with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable reduction in cost to
the sewage works can be determined. The reduction shall be limited to the
reduced costs.
(Ord. 501, passed 2-17-82)
§ 50.48 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   As to the owners or tenants of each and every lot and parcel of real
estate or building that is connected with or uses the sewage works, by or
through any part of the sewage system of the town, or is in any way used or
served by the sewage works, a deposit as set forth in §
51.16(D) shall be required before sewage service is provided to the lot, parcel
of real estate, or building. No other deposit shall be required.
   (B)   The payment of this amount shall be made to the Clerk- Treasurer of
the town and shall be payable before sewage service is provided. The deposit
will be refunded upon discontinuance of the service, upon the condition that
all charges for sewage shall have been paid in full.
(Ord. 473, passed 11-21-73; Am. Ord. 531, passed 2-4-87)
§ 50.49 ADMINISTRATION OF SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient management of the
town's sewerage system, pumping stations, and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage treatment
works, for the construction and use of house sewers and connection to the
sewerage system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of
these rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the town's
sewerage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation
of the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require methods affecting
pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included
in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
the sewage works.
   (C)   Any differences that may arise between users and officials of the
sewage works that cannot be resolved at that level may be appealed to the Board
of Trustees of the town.
(Ord. 439, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 501, passed 2-17-82)
§ 50.98 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.32 shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in this notice,
permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
for in §
50.98 shall be guilty of a violation and on conviction thereof shall be fined
in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. Any person
violating any of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.32 shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned by the town by reason of the violation.
(Ord. 440, passed 10-16-62; Am. Ord. 502, passed 2-17-82)
CHAPTER 51: WATERWORKS SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Separate connections required
   
51.02   Interference with equipment prohibited
   
51.03   Shutting off service at curbcock prohibited
   
51.04   Restrictions on use of water, equipment; permits
   
51.05   Check valves; location of service pipes
   
51.06   Relocation of curbcock
   
51.07   Inspections
   
51.08   Responsibility for repair, maintenance, and replacement of system
   
51.09   Public hearing prior to adjustment of rates
Rates and Charges
   
51.15   Schedule of rates and charges
   
51.16   Water meters
   
51.17   Reading of meters
   
51.18   Multiple dwellings
   
51.19   Erroneous charges
   
51.20   Discontinuance of service
   
51.21   Denial of service to delinquent accounts
   
51.22   Reconnection fees
Water Conservation Emergency Measures
   
51.30   Declaration of need
   
51.31   Voluntary conservation
   
51.32   Mandatory conservation
   
51.33   Rationing
   
51.34   Exceptions
   
51.35   Notice
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   In the case of a new installation, no two separate premises shall be
supplied from one service. A separate service shall be installed for each
separate premises.
(Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71)
§ 51.02 INTERFERENCE WITH EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All persons are forbidden to cover or in any way interfere with any
curb-box, valve pit, valve box, or hydrant.
   (B)   In the case of an automobile or vehicular accident involving the
breaking or disconnection of a fire hydrant, the car owner involved shall pay
for the repair of same.
(Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 SHUTTING OFF SERVICE AT CURBCOCK PROHIBITED.
   Consumers shall not turn the water on or off at the curbcock, and the same
shall be done only by waterworks employees. All service pipes must have a
stopcock and wastecock placed between the curb and the premises for an inside
meter or between the outside meter and the consumer's premises in order to shut
the water off, to drain pipes; to keep the service pipes from freezing; or to
make repairs.
(Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF WATER, EQUIPMENT; PERMITS.
   (A)   All owners are prohibited from furnishing water or allowing the same
to be taken from their hydrants or fixtures by other persons unless those
persons secure a permit from the Waterworks Superintendent.
   (B)   Contractors using water for building purposes, and other temporary
users, must secure a permit from the Waterworks Department.
   (C)   No person shall take water from any hydrant except for fire purposes
or cleaning streets, unless authorized by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 CHECK VALVES; LOCATION OF SERVICE PIPES.
   (A)   In cases where service is connected directly to boilers or other hot
water fixtures which will likely cause back-water pressure, a check valve shall
be installed on the service pipe to prevent injury to the meter. Any damage to
meters caused by back pressure shall be paid for by the consumer.
   (B)   In the case of a new installation, no service pipes will be allowed to
run across lots or from one lot to another, but each lot shall be served by a
service taken directly from the distribution main serving the premises.
(Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71)
§ 51.06 RELOCATION OF CURBCOCK.
   Any changes necessary to be made in the location of a curbcock will be made
at the expense of the property owner. Notice will be given to the agent or
owner, and if the work is not done within a reasonable length of time, the town
will do the work at the expense of the owner. If the town is not paid on or
before the next following payment of water rent, the water service will be shut
off until payment is made.
(Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71)
§ 51.07 INSPECTIONS.
   A waterworks representative shall have the right to inspect at any
reasonable time all service piping and water appurtenances inside the
consumer's premises.
(Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71)
§ 51.08 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIR, MAINTENANCE, AND REPLACEMENT OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   The town will be responsible for and will assume the costs of all
repairs, maintenance, and replacement to the waterworks system that are
determined in the discretion of the superintendent or the Board of Trustees to
be necessary or appropriate, which are performed on town property, including
any of the town streets and alleys.
   (B)   The owner, occupants, and tenants of any property served by the
waterworks of the town will be jointly and severally responsible for and will
jointly and severally assume the costs of all maintenance, repairs, or
replacements to the waterworks system located on that property and which are
determined by either the Superintendent of the Water Utility or by the owner,
occupants, or tenants to be necessary or appropriate. The owner, occupants, or
tenants will notify the Superintendent of the Water Utility prior to commencing
any maintenance, repairs, or replacements.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-15-85)
§ 51.09 PUBLIC HEARING PRIOR TO ADJUSTMENT OF RATES.
   The Town Council will not adjust the schedule of rates and charges in §
51.15 without first holding a public hearing. The town will provide notice of
the public hearing to each user by first class mail to the user's last known
address not less than 15 days prior to the public hearing.
(Ord. 551, passed 12-19-89)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.15 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   There is established for the use of and the service rendered by the
waterworks system of the town the following rates and charges, based on the use
of water supplied by the waterworks system:
   (A)   Metered Rates Per Month         Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
      First 2,000 gallons            $10.85
      Next 4,000 gallons            10.00
      Next 9,000 gallons            9.10
      Next 15,000 gallons         7.32
      Over 30,000 gallons         5.57
   (B)   Minimum charge per month. Each user shall pay a minimum charge in
accordance with the following applicable size of meter installed for which the
user will be entitled to the quantity of water set out in the above schedule of
rates.
       Size of Meter            Rate
      5/8 to 3/4 inch            $21.70
      1                  30.60
      1-1/4                  36.09
      1-1/2                  47.43
      2                  65.28
      3                  87.72
      4                  133.12
      6                  178.51
   (C)   Fire Hydrants (Per Annum)      Rate
      Municipal hydrants, per hydrant   $440
      Private hydrants, per hydrant       898
   (D)   Private Fire Protection         Rate
      Per annum                  $1,424
   (E)   Tap charge. A tap charge shall be collected from each customer prior
to connection to the water system. This charge shall be $1,020 for a 5/8-inch
through 3/4-inch connection. For larger size connections, the charge shall be
an amount sufficient to reimburse the town for labor, material, and overhead
necessary for tapping the main, installation of service from the main to the
property line (including the curb stop), and the cost of furnishing and
installing a suitable water meter. In no event shall the charge for such
connection be less than $1,020.
   (F)   Out-of-town-surcharge. For all service rendered to consumers outside
the town limits, there will be imposed a surcharge of 20% of the schedule of
rates and charges set forth in divisions (A) through (E) above.
   (G)   Temporary users. Water furnished to temporary users, such as
contractors and the like, shall be charged on the basis of the metered rates
hereinbefore set forth as estimated and established by the Waterworks
Superintendent.
   (H)   Collection and deferred payment charge. All bills for water services
not paid within 15 days from the due date thereof, as stated in those bills,
shall be subject to a collection or deferred payment charge of 10% of the total
amount owing on that bill.
(Ord. 465, passed 5-17-71; Am. Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71; Am. Ord. 488, passed -
- 76; Am. Ord. 554, passed 10-16-90; Am. Ord. 556, passed 12-18-90; Am. Ord.
559, passed 2-5-91; Am. Ord. 598, passed 3- 5-02; Am. Ord. 599, passed 6-4-02;
Am. Ord. 620, passed 11-4-08; Am. Ord. 655, passed 2-12-20)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of rates and charges will not be adjusted without public hearing,
see §
51.09
§ 51.16 WATER METERS.
   (A) For the purpose of this section, "PREMISES" shall mean all buildings or
divisions under one common roof, owned by one party. When all dwellings or
buildings are owned by one party and supplied through one service pipe from the
main, one or more meters may be placed on the service pipes leading into those
premises. All charges will be billed to each rental unit or customer served,
or, at the discretion of the Waterworks Department, to the owner of the
premises. If the charges are billed directly to the rental unit or customer
(and not the owner), the owner will, in the absence of the owner's written
guaranty, remain liable for such charges if the rental unit or customer fails
to pay, but not in excess of three successive months' charges for such rental
unit or customer without notification to owner. If the Water Utility requires
the owner's written guaranty, the owner will be liable for all unpaid charges.
   (B)   All services shall be metered. The size of the meter to be used shall
be determined by the Superintendent or other person in charge of the
waterworks.
   (C)   All water shall be installed outside in tiles or inside a consumer's
premises in the location and manner as selected by the Waterworks
Superintendent. Any refusal by the prospective user to agree to meter location
or installation which would serve the best interest of the town, shall at the
option of the Town Board of Trustees, be sufficient reason to refuse water
service until these requirements are met.
   (D)   Meter deposits shall be required of new consumers before water service
will be allowed and shall be in the amount of $35. This deposit will be
refunded upon discontinuance of service and payment of water bills in full.
   (E)   Any changes in the service pipes or fixtures that may be necessary to
set the meter properly to avoid freezing, and to make all water used on any
premises pass through the meter, shall be made at the expense of the property
owner or consumer, and the cost thereof shall be paid before the water is
turned on.
   (F)   Where meters are set in basements or cellars, the consumer will be
required to keep the surrounding area of the meter clean and within easy
access, and shall protect the same from freezing or injury.
   (G)   If any meter is out of order and fails to register the quantity of
water passing through the same, the consumer may be billed for water consumed
on the average of billings for the last six months before the meter failed to
register properly.
(Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71; Am. Ord. 531, passed 2-4-87; Am. Ord. 556, passed
12-18-90)
§ 51.17 READING OF METERS.
   For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for water use, the
meters shall be read monthly and the users shall be billed monthly.
(Ord. 488, passed - - 76)
§ 51.18 MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Service pipes intended to supply two or more distinct premises or
tenants can be provided with a separate stopcock and a separate meter for each
customer, with the minimum charge applicable to each meter when consumption is
minimum or under. Where only one stopcock is used, the owner of the premises
shall pay the water rate for the parties who are thus supplied. Upon failure of
anyone to pay the water rates when due, or to comply with the rules and
regulations of the water system, the supply of water will be withheld without
any liability on the part of the town to any of the parties.
   (B)   The Waterworks Department may require at its discretion that separate
customers in apartment houses or commercial buildings with four or less
consumer quarters or family units, and in double houses, duplex flats, or
trailer parks be metered separately in cases where one meter is presently
installed and consumption is less than the combined minimums for all consumers.
Upon notification of this requirement, the customer or property owner shall
realign piping at his expense to facilitate installation of separate meters.
Until he accomplishes such a realignment, the monthly billing shall not be less
than the combined minimum of all the separate customer units served. If the
customer fails to realign within a reasonable period of time after such notice,
the Waterworks Department may, at its discretion, levy an additional surcharge,
not to exceed 15%, on the combined minimum monthly billing.
(Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71; Am. Ord. 556, passed 12-18-90)
§ 51.19 ERRONEOUS CHARGES.
   When the Board of Trustees determines there has been an overcharge or
undercharge for the use of water, the Board will make a corresponding
retroactive price adjustment for that customer for a maximum 12 months prior to
the determination, or for a shorter period if there is a shorter period of
incorrect charges. Upon a determination by the Board that there has been an
overcharge or undercharge the Clerk-Treasurer will refund to or collect the
amount due from the customer with interest at the rate of 8% per annum.
(Ord. 520, passed 12-19-84)
§ 51.20 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   All permits for water supply may be cancelled at the option of the town and
service discontinued for the following reasons:
   (A)   The wasting or improper use of water through the use of defective or
imperfect fixtures, or in any other manner or for any reason after the consumer
has been notified thereof;
   (B)   For refusal or neglect to pay bills promptly, or any other charges
accruing, in the manner and at the time herein provided;
   (C)   For interference or tampering with or destroying the water meter-box,
meter-seals, or any other service or appliance of the waterworks system, used
for controlling or regulating the supply of water;
   (D)   For failure to apply for a permit in case of change of ownership or
tenancy; or
   (E)   For defrauding in any other manner the Waterworks Department.
(Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71)
§ 51.21 DENIAL OF SERVICE TO DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation vacating premises without paying all water
rents up to the time of the vacation, shall not thereafter be supplied with
water through any service until all back water rents are paid.
(Ord. 466, passed 5-17-71)
§ 51.22 RECONNECTION FEES.
   In order to reestablish water supply services to any dwelling, business or
other location within the town, any person, firm or entity who has had water
service canceled or discontinued for the reasons enumerated in §
51.20 shall first pay to the town all past due water fees as well as a
reconnection fee in the sum of $50.
(Ord. 658, passed 8-5-20)
WATER CONSERVATION EMERGENCY MEASURES
§ 51.30 DECLARATION OF NEED.
   Upon determining that the town's public water system is in imminent danger
of a shortage of water or is experiencing a shortage of water, the Town Council
can declare a water conservation emergency and establish the appropriate
conservation measures and the duration thereof.
(Ord. 561, passed 4-16-91)
§ 51.31 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   In accordance with §
51.35, users will be requested to reduce water consumption by practicing
voluntary conservation techniques. The governing body may suggest reasonable
and meaningful actions which will alleviate existing or potential water
shortage.
(Ord. 561, passed 4-16-91)
§ 51.32 MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   In accordance with §
51.35, users can be prohibited from any or all of the water uses listed below,
subject to reasonable terms, times and conditions as the Town Council shall
determine:
   (A)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass, ground
covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables or any other vegetation.
   (B)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad cars
or any other type of mobile equipment.
   (C)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, paved areas, or other
outdoor surfaces.
   (D)   Any non-essential washing and cleaning of any business equipment or
machinery.
   (E)   The filling of swimming pools, wading pools and ornamental fountains.
   (F)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing.
(Ord. 561, passed 4-16-91)
§ 51.33 RATIONING.
   In addition to the mandatory conservation measures identified in §
51.32 and in accordance with §
51.35, users can be limited to water use per the following schedule:
   (A)   Residential use shall be limited to 50 gallons per person per day (or
other limit established by the Town Council and upon which notice has been
given in accordance with §
51.35).
   (B)   Business, commercial and industrial users shall be limited to 80% of
the volume of water used during the corresponding month of the preceding year.
Business, commercial or industrial users that were not in business and
operating in the area served by the Town Public Water System more than one year
prior to the declaration of need shall be restricted to 80% of the average
monthly volume of water used during the number of months such business,
commercial or industrial user was in business and operating in the public water
system area.
(Ord. 561, passed 4-16-91)
§ 51.34 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Town Council reserves the right to establish alternative rationing
requirements for the following:
   (A)   Health care providers.
   (B)   A reasonable use of water to maintain adequate health and sanitary
standards.
   (C)   Those industrial and agricultural activities determined to be
necessary for the public health and well being.
(Ord. 561, passed 4-16-91)
§ 51.35 NOTICE.
   Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be by publication in a local
newspaper of general circulation or other means as deemed appropriate by the
governing body. Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be by
first-class United States Mail, or by other door- to-door distribution to each
current user, and by door-to-door distribution to each current user, and by
electronic and print media. The notice shall be deemed effective at the
conclusion of door-to-door distribution, or at noon of the third day after
depositing same in the United States Mail.
(Ord. 561, passed 4-16-91)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any user who violates §§
51.32 or
51.33 may be punished in accordance with §
130.99. Each day that the user is in violation shall constitute a separate
offense. In addition to, or in the alternative to such a fine, water service
may be terminated for any user who violates §§
51.32 or
51.33 in accordance with §
51.20(A).
(Ord. 561, passed 4-16-91)
CHAPTER 52: REFUSE AND WASTE COLLECTION
Section
   
52.01   Authority
   
52.02   Future authority
   
52.03   Services provided
   
52.04   Town citizens and entities not served by refuse and waste contract
   
52.05   Payment for the provision of refuse and waste services
   
52.06   Failure to pay monthly fee
§ 52.01 AUTHORITY.
   The town is hereby authorized to award contracts to a private contractor to
collect refuse and garbage for all of the individual citizens of the town and
for the Town Government. The previous award of a contract by the town to a
private contractor is hereby confirmed.
(Ord. 593, passed 1-19-00)
§ 52.02 FUTURE AUTHORITY.
   The town is authorized to award future contracts for these services without
additional ordinances for such contracts.
(Ord. 593, passed 1-19-00)
§ 52.03 SERVICES PROVIDED.
   The contractor shall provide refuse and waste collection for private
individual citizens residing in residences and residential complexes containing
less than four residences, and for refuse and waste collection for the Town
Government. The contract between the town and contractor will not cover refuse
and waste collection for the mobile home park.
(Ord. 593, passed 1-19-00; Am. Ord. 594, passed 2-1-00)
§ 52.04 TOWN CITIZENS AND ENTITIES NOT SERVED BY REFUSE AND WASTE CONTRACT.
   All businesses, and individuals residing in housing complexes containing
more than three residences, including the mobile home park, hereinafter called
"other citizens," will not be serviced by the contract awarded by the town.
Such other citizens will be free to enter into a contract with any desired
disposal contractor but must take all steps to dispose of their refuse and
waste in a manner no less sightly, healthful, and frequent than that done by
the town through its refuse and waste disposal contractor.
(Ord. 593, passed 1-19-00; Am. Ord. 594, passed 2-1-00)
§ 52.05 PAYMENT FOR THE PROVISION OF REFUSE AND WASTE SERVICES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to collect $12.50 per
month, per residence, for each residence authorized to receive such service
under the contract. The Clerk-Treasurer may bill either tenant or landlord when
a unit is being rented and may bill either Contract Seller or Contract Buyer
when a residence is being sold on contract. In either event, if the service is
not paid for by a tenant or landlord, Contract Buyer or Contract Seller, the
other shall be liable. If all residents are going to be absent from a residence
for a period not less than four consecutive weeks, a resident can notify the
Clerk-Treasurer, in writing, of the dates of such absences not less than two
weeks in advance, and the Clerk- Treasurer shall not bill such resident for
those weeks of absence. Only the Clerk-Treasurer or the President of Town
Council shall be authorized to direct the waste collection contractor not to
provide service.
(Ord. 593, passed 1-19-00; Am. Ord. 619, passed 11-4-08; Am. Ord. 644, passed
11-2-16; Am. Ord. 653, passed 5-23-19)
§ 52.06 FAILURE TO PAY MONTHLY FEE.
   If any person(s) responsible for paying the monthly fee set forth in §
52.05 fail to pay such fee by the required date, the Clerk- Treasurer shall
take steps to collect such fees. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to direct
the Superintendent of the Town Utilities to stop water services to any such
residence even if the person(s) are current in payment of their water bills.
The Clerk-Treasurer can also refer such a debt for collection. In such event
the town can, in addition to the amount owing, collect interest, court costs,
and reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 594, passed 2-1-00)
CHAPTER 53: BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
53.01   Responsibility
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Water system requirements
   
53.04   Compliance
   
53.05   Inspection
   
53.06   Discontinuance of service
   
53.07   Installation of backflow prevention assembly
   
53.08   Type of protective assembly
   
53.09   Approval of backflow prevention assembly
   
53.10   Adoption of standards by reference
   
53.11   Duty to test and repair
   
53.12   Certification of testers
   
53.13   Rules incorporated by reference
 
   
53.99   Penalties
§ 53.01 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The town shall be responsible for the protection of the public potable water
distribution system from contaminants or pollutants through the water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the town an approved backflow prevention
assembly is required as defined by the 327 I.A.C. 8-10, Rule 10 (at the
customer’s water service connection; or within the customer’s private water
system) for the safety of the water system, the town shall give notice in
writing by mail to said customer to install such an approved backflow
prevention assembly(s) at specific location(s) on their premises. The customer
shall install such approved assembly(s) at the customer’s own expense; and
failure, refusal, or inability on the part of the customer to install, have
tested and maintain said assembly(s) shall constitute a grounds for
discontinuing water service to the premises until such requirements have been
satisfactorily met.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “AIR GAP.” The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture, or other devise or flood level rim of said vessel. An
approved air-gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe,
measured vertically, above the overflow rim of the vessel: and in no case less
than one inch.
   “APPROVED.” Accepted by the town as meeting applicable specification stated
or cited in this chapter, or as suitable for the proposed use.
   “AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY.” Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the utility's approved public potable water supply. These auxiliary
waters may include water from another utility’s public potable water supply or
any natural source(s) such as a well, spring, river, stream, etc., or “used
waters” or “industrial fluids.” These waters may be contaminated or polluted or
they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over
which the water utility does not have sanitary control.
   “BACKFLOW.” The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either
backpressure or backsiphonage.
   “BACKFLOW PREVENTER.” An approved assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow.
   “BACKPRESSURE.” The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
under pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system
from any source or sources other than the intended source.
   “BACKSIPHONAGE.” The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply caused by the reduction
of pressure in the potable water supply system.
   “CONTAMINATION.” An impairment of the quality of the potable water by
sewage, industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a
degree which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   “CROSS-CONNECTION.” Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains
potable water and the other non-potable water or industrial fluids of
questionable safety, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur
into the potable water system.
   “CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT.” The installation of an approved
backflow assembly at the water service connection to any customer’s premises
where it is physically and economically unfeasible to find and permanently
eliminate or control all actual or potential cross-connections within the
customer’s water system; or it shall mean the installation of an approved
backflow prevention assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a
portion of a customer’s water system where there are actual or potential cross-
connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point
of cross-connection.
   “CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROLLED.” A connection between a potable water system
and a non-potable water system with an air gap or approved backflow prevention
assembly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the
protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   “DEGREE OF HAZARD.” An evaluation of the potential risk and the adverse
effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
   “DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY.” An assembly of two independently operating,
approved check valves with resilient seated shut-off valves on each end of the
check valves, plus properly located resilient seated test cocks for testing of
each check valve. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance
specifications as determined by a laboratory and field evaluation program
resulting in an approval by a recognized and the town approved testing agency
for backflow prevention assemblies. To be approved these assemblies must be
readily accessible for in line testing and maintenance. Confined space
installations will not be accepted.
   “HEALTH HAZARD.” Any condition, device, or practice in the water supply
system and its operation, which could create, or in the judgment of the town,
may create a danger to the health and well being of the water customer.
   “INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM.” Any system containing a fluid or solution, which
may be chemically, biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a
form or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional,
or plumbing hazard if introduced into an approved water supply. This may
include, but not be limited to: polluted or contaminated waters; all types of
process waters and “used water” originating from the public potable water
system which may have deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid
form; plating acids and alkalines, circulating cooling waters connected to an
open cooling tower and/or cooling towers that are chemically or biologically
treated or stabilized with toxic substances; contaminated natural waters such
as wells, springs, streams, rivers, irrigation canal or systems, etc.; oils,
gases, glycerin, paraffin, caustic and acid solutions and other liquid and
gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes or for fire-fighting
purposes.
   “NON-POTABLE WATER.” Water which is not safe for human consumption or which
is of questionable potability.
   “PLUMBING HAZARD.” A plumbing type cross-connection in a customer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by an approved air-gap or
approved backflow prevention assembly.
   “POLLUTION.” The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade it’s quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
   “POLLUTIONAL HAZARD.” An actual or potential threat to the physical water
system but which could constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable
or could cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but would not be
dangerous to health.
   “POTABLE WATER.” Any water which, according to recognized standards, is safe
for human consumption.
   “REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLIES.” An assembly of two independently
acting approved check valves together with a hydraulically operating,
mechanically independent differential pressure relief valve located between the
check valves and at the same time, below the first check valve, the unit shall
include properly located resilient seated test cocks and resilient seated shut-
off valves at each end of the assembly. The entire assembly shall meet the
design and performance specifications as determined by a laboratory and a field
evaluation program resulting in approval by a recognized and town approved
testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies. The assembly shall operate
to maintain the pressure in the zone between the check valves at an acceptable
level less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the assembly.
At cessation of normal flow the pressure between the two check valves shall be
less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the assembly. In case
of leakage of either of the check valves the differential relief valve shall
operate to maintain the reduced pressure in the zone between the check valves
by discharging to the atmosphere. When the inlet pressure is two pounds per
square inch or less, the relief valve shall open to the atmosphere. To be
approved these assemblies must be readily accessible for inline testing and
maintenance and be installed in a location where no part of the assembly will
be submerged. Confined space installations will not be approved.
   “SUPERINTENDENT.” The Superintendent of the Division of Water Management of
the town who is vested with the authority and responsibility for the impletion
of an effective cross-connection control program and for the enforcement of
provisions of this chapter.
   “SYSTEM HAZARD.” An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted affect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   “USED WATER.” Any water supplied by a Water Utility from a public potable
water system after it has passed through the point of delivery and is no longer
under the sanitary control of the Water Utility.
   “WATER SERVICE CONNECTION.” The terminal end of a service connection from
the public potable water system; i.e., where the water utility loses
jurisdiction and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to
the customer's water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service
connection, then the service connection shall mean the downstream end of the
meter, provided the meter is installed outside of a building; i.e., in a pit or
vault. If the meter is installed inside a building, then the water Utility’s
jurisdiction terminates at the downstream end of the outside shut off valve to
the water service. There should be no unprotected takeoffs from the water
service line ahead of any meter or ahead of any backflow prevention assembly.
Service connection shall also include water service connection from a fire
hydrant and all other temporary or emergency water service connections from the
public potable water system.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.03 WATER SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the utility
system and the customer system.
   (A)   The utility system shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system; and shall include all air-gaps or approved backflow
prevention assemblies properly installed and maintained, up to the point where
the customer’s system begins. The source shall include all components of the
facilities utilized in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of
water to the distribution system. The distribution system shall include the
network of mains used for the delivery of water from the source to the
customer’s system.
   (B)   The customer’s system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system which are utilized in
conveying utility-delivered domestic water to points of use. As further defined
in The Town of Monroeville service area, at or about the customer fitting
connection outside of the meter pit or 18 inches for residential services or at
the corporation shut off at the distribution main for commercial properties,
unless otherwise designated.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.04 COMPLIANCE.
   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or maintained
by the town unless the water supply is protected as required by state rules and
regulations and this chapter. Service of water to any premises may be
discontinued by the town if a backflow prevention assembly required by this
chapter is not installed, tested and maintained, or if it is found that a
backflow prevention assembly has been removed or bypassed; or if an unprotected
cross-connection exists on the premises. Service will not be restored until
such conditions or defects are corrected.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.05 INSPECTION.
   The customer’s system should be open for inspection at all reasonable times
to authorized representatives of the town to determine whether there exist
cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violations
of this chapter or regulations which are adopted through this chapter.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.06 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   When a violation condition becomes known, the Superintendent may deny or
immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing for a physical
break in the service line until the customer has corrected the condition(s) in
conformance with state statutes and town ordinances relating to plumbing and
water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.07 INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.
   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall also be installed on each
service line to a customer’s water system at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.08 TYPE OF PROTECTIVE ASSEMBLY.
   The type of protective assembly required shall depend upon the degree of
hazard which exists as follows:
   (A)   In the case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water supply,
the public water system shall be protected by an approved air-gap separation or
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly;
   (B)   In the case of any premises where there is water or a substance that
would be objectionable but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow assembly;
   (C)   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous to
health such as to create an actual or potential hazard to the public water
system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved air-gap
separation or an approved reduced principle backflow prevention assembly.
Examples of premises where these conditions will exist include, but are not
limited to sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, chemical
manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries, and plating plants;
   (D)   In the case of any premises where there are uncontrolled cross-
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly at the service connection;
   (E)   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements or
other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete in-plant cross-connection survey, the public water system shall be
protected against backflow from the premises by either an approved air-gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly on each service to the premises;
   (F)   In the case of any premises having a lawn irrigation system, the
public water system shall be protected by an approved pressure vacuum breaker
backflow prevention assembly or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly;
   (G)   In the case of any premises having a fire service line, the public
water system shall be protected by an approved double detector check valve
assembly;
   (H)   All other premises not covered in divisions (A) through (G) shall be
required to install a non-testable dual check valve assembly for the protection
of the public water system; and
   (I)   Existing installations are not exempt from current rules and
regulations in this chapter.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.09 APPROVAL OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.
   Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be a model and size
approved by the town. The term “APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY” shall
mean an assembly that has been manufactured in full conformance with the
standards established by the American Water Works Association (AWWA) entitled
“AWWA C506-84 Standards for Reduced Pressure Principle and Double Check Valve
backflow Prevention Devices.” Said assembly shall meet the laboratory and field
performance specifications of the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research (FCCC&HR) of the University of Southern California
established by Specifications of Backflow Prevention Assemblies - Section 10 of
the most current issue of the “Manual of Cross-Connection Control.” Final
approval shall be evidenced by a Certificate of Approval issued by an approved
testing laboratory certifying full compliance with the said AWWA standards and
FCCC&HR specifications.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.10 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   The AWWA and FCCC&HR standards and specifications specifically referenced in
§
53.09 of this chapter are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.11 DUTY TO TEST AND REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of any customer-user at any premises where backflow
prevention assemblies are installed as stipulated in §
53.08(A) through (G), to have certified inspections and operational tests made
upon installation and at least once per year. In those instances where the Town
Superintendent deems the hazard to be great enough, the Superintendent may
require inspection at more frequent intervals. The inspections and tests shall
be at the expense of the water user and shall be performed by a certified
tester registered and approved by the State of Indiana and the town. It shall
be the duty of the customer to see that these tests are made in a timely
manner. If a customer-user does not have its backflow prevention assembly
tested within 30 days of the testing due date, the town may discontinue water
service to the premises to maintain the safety of the public water system.
These assemblies shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the expense of
the customer-user whenever said assemblies are found to be defective. Records
of such tests, repairs and overhaul shall be kept by the customer-user and a
copy furnished to the town.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.12 CERTIFICATION OF TESTERS.
   Certified testers shall be registered with the town and shall provide proof
of state registration. In addition, certified testers will provide proof that
test gauges used in testing backflow prevention assemblies have been calibrated
and certified annually. All inspection reports shall be made using approved
forms, either from the town or approved by same.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.13 RULES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The Indiana Plumbing Code, Indiana State Department of Health and IDEM Rule
327 I.A.C. 8-10 are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
§ 53.99 PENALTIES.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty is
otherwise specifically provided shall be fined not more than $1,000. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 640, passed 9-2-15)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70. TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
71. (RESERVED)
   
72. (RESERVED)
   
73. BICYCLES; SNOWMOBILES; OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
   
74. TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
75. PARKING TRAILERS, CAMPERS AND BOATS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
In General
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Effect of chapter
Administration and Enforcement of Chapter
Division 1. Generally
   
70.03   Required obedience to traffic regulations
Division 2. Penalties and Procedure on Arrest
   
70.04   Penalties
   
70.05   Forms for notices of arrest or appearance
   
70.06   Procedure upon arrest
   
70.07   Failure to obey notice or summons
   
70.08   Notice of illegally parked vehicles
   
70.09   Failure to comply with notice attached to parked vehicle
   
70.10   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
70.11   When complaint is to be issued
Enforcement of and Obedience to Traffic Regulations
   
70.12   Authority of police officers; authority of members of Fire Department
to assist police at fire
   
70.13   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.14   Persons propelling pushcarts or riding animals to obey traffic
regulations
   
70.15   Use of coaster, roller skates, and similar devices restricted
   
70.16   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
70.17   Special exemptions for authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.18   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.19   Immediate report of accident
Operation of Vehicles Generally
Division 1. Generally
   
70.20   Following fire apparatus
   
70.21   Crossing fire hose
   
70.22   Driving through funeral or other procession
   
70.23   Driving in procession
   
70.24   Funeral processions to be identified
   
70.25   When permits required for parades and processions
   
70.26   Vehicles not to be driven on sidewalk
   
70.27   Limitations on backing into intersection
   
70.28   Riding on motorcycles
   
70.29   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
70.30   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
70.31   Unlawful riding
   
70.32   Driving through safety zone prohibited
   
70.33   Driving in alleys
   
70.34   Device which causes flame to be thrown from exhaust pipe prohibited
Division 2. Speed Regulations
   
70.35   Town speed limits
   
70.36   Speed limits in public parks
Division 3. Turns
   
70.37   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
70.38   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers
   
70.39   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
70.40   Limitations on turning around
Division 4. One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
70.41   Authority to assign one-way streets and alleys
Division 5. Through Streets, Stop Intersections, and Yield Intersections
   
70.42   Through streets designated
   
70.43   Stop signs - authority to erect
   
70.44   Same - nature and location
   
70.45   Same - duty to stop
   
70.46   "Yield" intersections
Traffic-Control Signals and Devices
   
70.47   Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices
   
70.48   Obedience to official traffic-control devices
   
70.49   When traffic devices required for enforcement purposes
   
70.50   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.51   Flashing signals
   
70.52   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, and markings
   
70.53   Operation of vehicles - play streets
   
70.54   Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.55   Duty of motorists to observe traffic lanes
Stopping, Standing, and Parking
Division 1. Generally
   
70.56   Stop required when emerging from alley or private driveway
   
70.57   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
70.58   Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad train
   
70.59   Standing or parking close to curb
   
70.60   Lights on parked vehicles
   
70.61   Parking prohibited in specified areas
   
70.62   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
70.63   Parking in alleys
   
70.64   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
70.65   Parking adjacent to schools
   
70.66   Stopping, standing, or parking near hazardous or congested places
Division 2. Restricted or Prohibited Parking on Certain Streets
   
70.67   Applicability of division
   
70.68   Regulations not exclusive
   
70.69   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
70.70   Parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets
   
70.71   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited during certain hours on
certain streets
   
70.72   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
70.73   Parking signs required
Division 3. Stopping for Loading and Unloading Only
   
70.74   Board of Trustees to designate curb loading zones
   
70.75   Stopping, standing, and parking in passenger curb loading zone
   
70.76   Stopping, standing, or parking in freight curb loading zone
Division 4. Parking for Persons with Impaired Mobility
   
70.77   Definition
   
70.78   Designated parking spaces authorized
   
70.79   Application and permit
   
70.80   Restricted parking
   
70.81   Fines and penalties
Abandoned Vehicles
   
70.82   Generally
   
70.83   Removal by Superintendent
   
70.84   Disposal of Junk Vehicle Fund
   
70.85   Adoption of state law
   
70.86   Removal by owner; execution of waiver
   
70.87   Violations; penalties
   
70.88   Snow emergency - definition
   
70.89   Same - determination and proclamation by President, Board of Trustees;
duration
   
70.90   Same - stopping or parking vehicles on snow emergency routes prohibited
   
70.91   Removal and impoundment of vehicles
Golf Carts
   
70.95   Golf carts
IN GENERAL
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   "ALLEY." A right-of-way other than a street, road, crosswalk, or easement,
designed for the special accommodation of the property it reaches.
   "AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE." Vehicles of the Fire Department, Police
Department, ambulances, and other vehicles having a public emergency use as are
authorized and designated by the Board of Trustees.
   "BICYCLE." Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels
in contact with the ground.
   "CROSSWALK."
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings.
   "CURB LOADING ZONE." A space adjacent to a curb, or lateral boundary line of
a roadway, reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles while loading or
unloading passengers or materials.
   "DRIVER." Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   "INTERSECTION."
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two streets which join one another at an angle.
   "MOTOR VEHICLE." Every vehicle which is self propelled but not operated upon
rails.
   "MOTORCYCLE." Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider
and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   "OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES." All signs, signals, markings, and
devices, not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of
a public body or official for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding
traffic.
   "PARK." The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   "PEDESTRIAN." Any person afoot.
   "POLICE OFFICER." Every member of the Police Department of this town, or any
person specifically authorized by the Board of Trustees to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   "PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY." Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   "RESIDENCE DISTRICT." The territory contiguous to and including a street not
comprising a business district, when the property on such street for a distance
of 500 feet or more is in the main improved with residences.
   "RIGHT-OF-WAY." Tho privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   "ROADWAY." That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   "STOP." Complete cessation of movement.
   "STOP INTERSECTION." An intersection where traffic on one street is required
by law to stop before entering or crossing the same when stop signs are erected
as provided in this chapter.
   "STOP, STOPPING, OR STANDING." Any stopping or standing of a vehicle whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with traffic or in
compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic-control sign or
signal.
   "STREET OR HIGHWAY." The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way publicly maintained, except alleys, when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   "THROUGH STREET." Every street or portion thereof at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by law to
yield the right-of-way to vehicles on such through street or highway, in
obedience either to a stop sign or a yield sign, when such signs are erected as
provided in this chapter.
   "TRAFFIC." Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for purposes of
travel.
   "TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL." Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   "VEHICLE." Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a street, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   "YIELD INTERSECTION." An intersection where traffic entering on one street
is required to slow down to a speed reasonable for existing conditions, or stop
if necessary before entering or crossing the same, when "yield" signs are
erected as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.02 EFFECT OF CHAPTER.
   This entire chapter shall be deemed and construed to be an exercise of the
police powers of this town for the preservation and protection of public
safety, and all of its provisions shall be liberally construed with a view to
the effectuation of such purpose.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER
Division 1. Generally
§ 70.03 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   It shall be an infraction for any person to violate any section of this
chapter or to counsel, aid, or abet such a violation.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
 Division 2. Penalties and Procedure on Arrest
§ 70.04 PENALTIES.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person convicted
of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of
not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.05 FORMS FOR NOTICES OF ARREST OR APPEARANCE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide, in triplicate, suitable, serially
numbered forms for notifying violators to appear and answer to charges of
violating this chapter and other laws and ordinances of this town. Such forms
shall be issued to and receipted for by the Town Marshal or other person acting
for him. The Clerk shall each month report to the Board of Trustees the
disposal made by the police of all triplicate forms issued to them. For this
purpose the Clerk or his representative shall have access to the necessary
records of the Police Department. These reports shall be public records.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.06 PROCEDURE UPON ARREST.
   Except when authorized or directed under the state law to immediately take a
person arrested for a violation of any traffic law before a magistrate, any
police officer, upon making an arrest for violation of the state traffic laws,
this chapter, or other traffic ordinances of this town, shall take the name,
address, and operator's license number of the alleged violator and the
registered number of the motor vehicle involved, shall issue to him in writing,
on the form provided by the Clerk-Treasurer, pursuant to §
70.05 a notice to answer to the charge against him at a place and at a time at
least five days after such arrest to be specified in the notice and forthwith
release the person arrested from custody.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.07 FAILURE TO OBEY NOTICE OR SUMMONS.
   Any person who fails to appear in response to the notice provided in §
70.06 is guilty of a misdemeanor, regardless of the disposition of the charge
for which he was originally arrested.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.08 NOTICE ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without driver is found parked, standing, or
stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this chapter or
other ordinance of this town, or by state law, the officer finding such vehicle
shall take its registration number and may take any other information displayed
on the vehicle which may identify its owner, and shall conspicuously affix to
such vehicle a notice in writing, on the form provided by the Marshal for the
driver to answer to the charge against him within 48 hours.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.09 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE ATTACHED TO PARKED VEHICLE.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under
this chapter or other traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to
a notice affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of 48 hours, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the notice was
affixed a letter informing him of the violation and warning him that in the
event such violator continues to disregard the notice, a complaint will be
filed and warrant for arrest issued. The sending of such letter shall not be
deemed jurisdictional.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.10 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing
the stopping, standing, or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of such stopping, standing, or parking the registered owner of such
vehicle shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the
registered owner of such vehicle was the person who stopped, placed, or parked
such vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such violation
occurred.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.11 WHEN COMPLAINT IS TO BE ISSUED.
   In the event any person fails to comply with a notice given to such person
or attached to a vehicle pursuant to §
70.06 or §
70.07, respectively, or fails to make appearance pursuant to a summons
directing an appearance at the place stated in such notice, the Clerk shall
forthwith have a complaint entered against such person and secure and issue a
warrant for arrest.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
ENFORCEMENT OF AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.12 AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICER; AUTHORITY OF MEMBERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT TO
ASSIST POLICE AT FIRE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department of this
town to enforce all street traffic laws of this town and all state vehicles
laws applicable to street traffic in this town.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department of this town are hereby authorized
to direct all traffic in conformance with all traffic laws and regulations;
provided, that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic
or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic in the immediate vicinity of
the fire.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.13 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.14 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS OR RIDING ANIMALS TO OBEY TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a street, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.15 USE OF COASTER, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar devices except licensed bicycles when operated in
accordance with this chapter, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing, such person shall be granted all
of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a
plat street as authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.16 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this state,
county, township, or this town, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to
violate any of the provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in
this chapter or by state statutes.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.17 SPECIAL EXEMPTIONS FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to authorized emergency
vehicles as defined in this chapter; except, that a driver, when operating any
such vehicle in an emergency necessary to the performance of his public duties
or in lawful pursuit, except when otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal, yellow or caution signal, or
stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary to avoid endangering
life or property.
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property.
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction or movement or turning in
specified directions, so long as he does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The exemptions hereinbefore granted in reference to the movement of an
emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle sounds a
siren, bell or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and the vehicle
displays a lighted red lamp visible from the front under normal atmospheric
conditions a distance of 500 feet as a warning to others.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.18 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle equipped with
at least one lighted lamp exhibiting red light visible from the front under
normal atmospheric conditions a distance of 500 feet, and when the driver is
giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every
other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a
position parallel to and as close as possible to the curb of the roadway, clear
of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position until such
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.19 IMMEDIATE REPORT OF ACCIDENT.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person or in property damage shall immediately, by the quickest
means of communication, give notice of such accident to the Police Department.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY
Division 1. Generally
§ 70.20 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   No driver of any vehicle other than one on official business in connection
with a fire shall follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm closer than 500 feet or park such vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.21 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
when laid down on any street, alley, or private driveway to be used at any fire
or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in
command.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.22 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.23 DRIVING IN PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practical and safe.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.24 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of pennant or other identifying
insignia or by such other method as may be determined and designated by the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.25 WHEN PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   No funeral procession or parade containing 200 or more persons or 50 or more
vehicles, excepting the forces of the United States Army or Navy, the military
forces of this state, and the forces of the police and fire departments, shall
occupy, march or proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit
issued by the Town Marshal and such other regulations as are set forth in this
chapter which may apply.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.26 VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive in, on, or across any sidewalk,
except at a permanent or temporary driveway or alley.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.27 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING INTO INTERSECTION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall back such vehicle across any marked or unmarked
crosswalk or into any intersection, nor shall he back such vehicle at any other
place, unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.28 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall not ride other than upon the permanent
and regular seat attached thereto or carry any other person, nor shall any
other person ride, upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached seat
to the rear or side of the operator.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.29 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates,
or any toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon
any roadway.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.30 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle when such vehicle is in
motion.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.31 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle or upon any portion thereof not designed
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.32 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE PROHIBITED.
   No driver of a vehicle shall at any time drive through or within a safety
zone.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.33 DRIVING IN ALLEYS.
   No driver of any vehicle shall drive into, on, or through any alley or any
portion thereof except for the purpose of going to or departing from a place or
property abutting on the section or block of such alley which such driver has
caused his vehicle to enter.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.34 DEVICE WHICH CAUSES FLAME TO BE THROWN FROM EXHAUST PIPE PROHIBITED.
   The use or operation of any motor vehicle within the town which has attached
or installed any device which causes fire or flame to be thrown from the
exhaust pipe of such motor vehicle is hereby declared to be illegal.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
Division 2. Speed Regulations
§ 70.35 TOWN SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit for all vehicles on the public streets and highways in
the Town of Monroeville shall be 20 miles per hour, excepting the vehicles
traveling on the following streets within the town for which the speed limit
shall be 30 miles per hour: S. Washington Street, Monroeville Road and W. South
Street.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle in
excess of the foregoing speed limits when signs are in place giving notice
thereof.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87; Am. Ord. 659, passed 8-5-20)
§ 70.36 SPEED LIMITS IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   A speed limit of 15 miles per hour shall be declared the limit upon all
streets and roads of the town park system; provided that at or near hazardous
or congested locations, a speed limit less than that specified in this section
may be established, and traffic speed control devices installed, when deemed
necessary.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
Division 3. Turns
§ 70.37 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   The approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof, and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the center line of the roadway being entered.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.38 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   The Board may authorize employees to place markers, buttons, or signs
within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled by
vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or, when deemed by the Board to be in the interest of
traffic safety or convenience, be other than as prescribed by law, this chapter
or other ordinance.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.39 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever signs are erected indicating that no right, left, or U- turn is
permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any such
signs.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.40 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   No driver of any vehicle shall turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction herein otherwise referred to as a U-turn, upon any street in
the central business district and shall not upon any other street so turn a
vehicle unless such movement can be made in safety and without interfering with
other traffic.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
Division 4. One-Way Streets and Alleys
§ 70.41 AUTHORITY TO ASSIGN ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever this chapter or any ordinance of this town designates any one-way
street or alley, the town shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof,
and any such regulation shall be effective once such signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
Division 5. Through Streets, Stop Intersections, and Yield Intersections
§ 70.42 THROUGH STREETS DESIGNATED.
   Those streets and parts of streets described in Chapter 74 are hereby
declared to be through streets for the purposes of this division, and said
Chapter 74 is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.43 STOP SIGNS - AUTHORITY TO ERECT.
   Whenever this chapter or any ordinance of this town designates and describes
a stop intersection or through street it shall be the duty of the Town Board to
place and maintain a stop sign on each street intersecting that portion thereof
described and designated in Chapter 74, Schedule II, which is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.44 SAME - NATURE AND LOCATION.
   Every sign erected pursuant to §
70.43 shall bear the word "STOP" in letters not less than eight inches in
height, and such sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by steady or
flashing internal illumination, or by efficient reflection elements on the face
of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none,
at the nearest line of the intersecting roadway.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.45 SAME - DUTY TO STOP.
   When stop signs are erected, as provided in §
70.43 at or near the entrance to any intersection, every driver of a vehicle
approaching the same shall stop such vehicle at such sign or at a clearly
marked stop line before entering the intersection, except when directed to
proceed by a police officer or traffic-control signal, and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from the
intersecting street or which are approaching so closely on such intersecting
street as to constitute an immediate hazard, but such driver having so yielded
may proceed and the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection
on such intersecting street shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle so
proceeding into or across the intersecting street.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.46 "YIELD" INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Authority to designate and erect signs. The Board of Trustees may
determine and designate intersections where special hazards exist and to erect
"yield right-of way" signs on one or more approaches thereto.
   (B)   Nature and location of signs. Every such "yield right-of-way" sign
shall bear the word "yield" in letters not less than six inches in height and
such sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by internal illumination or
by a floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements in the face of the sign. Every such sign shall be erected as near as
practicable to the nearest line of the crosswalk on the nearest side of the
intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the intersection roadway.
   (C)   Obedience to signs. When "yield" signs are erected as provided in this
section, at or near the entrance of an intersection, every driver of a vehicle
approaching such sign shall slow down to a speed reasonable for existing
conditions, or shall stop if necessary before entering the intersecting street,
except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control signal,
and shall yield the right-of way to any pedestrian legally crossing the roadway
on which he is driving and to any vehicle in the intersection or which is
approaching on another street so closely as to constitute an immediato hazard.
   (D)   Collision deemed evidence of failure to yield. If such driver is
involved in a collision with a pedestrian in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the
intersection after driving past a "yield" sign without stopping, such collision
shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his failure to yield right-of-way.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS AND DEVICES
§ 70.47 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the State Highway Department. All signs required
by this chapter for a particular purpose shall be uniform as to type and
location throughout the town. All traffic- control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this chapter shall be official
traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.48 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with this
chapter or other ordinances of this town, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this chapter.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.49 WHEN TRAFFIC DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.50 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words "go", "caution", or "stop" or exhibiting different colored lights
successively, the following colors only shall be used and such terms and lights
shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or green accompanied by the word "go":
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited under §
70.48, may proceed straight through or turn right or left, unless a sign at
such place prohibits such turn. But vehicular traffic shall yield right-of-way
to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk at the
intersection at the time such a signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or yellow accompanied by the word "caution" when shown
with or following the green or "go" signal:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or red accompanied by the word "stop":
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal alone shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if none, then before entering the
intersection and shall remain standing until an indication to proceed is shown
except as provided in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   Where no sign is placed prohibiting such a turn, vehicular traffic
facing a steady red signal, after coming to a complete stop, may cautiously
enter the intersection to make a right turn, or, if coming from the left lane
of a one-way street into another one-way street with the flow of traffic, a
left turn after stopping as required by division (C)(1) above. Such vehicular
traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and to other traffic using
the intersection.
      (3)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow. Vehicular traffic facing such signal may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.51 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by traffic as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, traffic shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk
at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if none, then before
entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the
rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, traffic may proceed through the intersection
or past such signal only with caution.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.52 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS.
   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any highway
any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic- control device or railroad sign
or signal, which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view any device of any railroad sign or signal; and no person shall place
or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit, upon any street, any
traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising. No person
shall place, maintain, or display any flashing, rotating, or alternating light,
beacon, or other lighted device which is visible from any highway and which may
be mistaken for or confused with a traffic- control device or for an authorized
warning device or an emergency vehicle. This shall not be deemed to prohibit
the erection, upon private property adjacent to highways, of signs giving
useful directional information and a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, device, or marking is declared to
be a public nuisance, and the Police Department is empowered and required to
remove the same without notice.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.53 OPERATION OF VEHICLES - PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed area, and then any such driver shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.54 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic- control device or
any railroad crossing sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any other part thereof.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.55 DUTY OF MOTORISTS TO OBSERVE TRAFFIC LANES.
   Where traffic lanes are marked upon the approach to any intersection which
requires a certain turning movement, it shall be the duty of the driver of any
vehicle which approaches these traffic lanes to select and enter the one he
intends touse, according to §
70.37. Then, upon the opportunity to do so according to the rights of other
vehicles and pedestrians within the intersection, the turn shall be made as
directed by signs or markings upon the street.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
Division 1. Generally
§ 70.56 STOP REQUIRED WHEN EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk area extending
across an alleyway, yielding the right-of- way to any pedestrian, as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such roadway.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.57 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver of a vehicle shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk
unless and until there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any
traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.58 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF RAILROAD TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than ten feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he can do so safely.
The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electrical or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train.
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train.
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1500 feet of the
highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such railroad
train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard.
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.59 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of a lawful traffic
movement and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle on a two-way street and
the right-hand or left-hand wheels of a vehicle on a one-way street within 12
inches of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter (§§
70.56 through
70.81). No person shall stand or park a vehicle in addition to the foregoing
except on or in an authorized area for the purpose of parking or standing of
vehicles in any town park; provided, that in no event shall any part or portion
of the vehicle, except bicycles be permitted to extend over the outer edge of
any curb or roadway or touch any utility, light, traffic device, pole, trees,
or lawn at any time, provided, that this section shall not be deemed to apply
to utility, signal, and street repair vehicles and park maintenance vehicles
when the necessary performance of their primary function requires otherwise.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.60 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any street
within a business or residence district, no lights need be displayed upon such
parked vehicle.
   (B)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.61 PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle expect when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with law or the direction of a police
officer or traffic-control device in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk or otherwise between the curb lines or lateral lines
of any roadway and the adjacent property lines.
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway.
      (3)   Within an intersection.
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
      (5)   On a crosswalk.
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the nearest curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
Board of Trustees has indicated a different length by signs or markings.
      (9)   Within ten feet to the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance of any fire station within 75 feet
of such entrance, when properly signposted.
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, stranding, or parking would obstruct traffic.
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      (15)   Upon any street for any period of time longer than 24 continuous
hours, except on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays; provided, that this section
shall not be deemed to apply to utility, signal, and street repair vehicles
when necessary performance of their primary function requires otherwise.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87; Am. Ord. 648, passed 1-3-18)
§ 70.62 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway unobstructed for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.63 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, except while loading or
unloading, and no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley
in such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.64 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose
of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale or for the primary purpose of
advertising any product or thing whatsoever.
   (B)   Greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an
emergency.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.65 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may restrict parking upon that side of any
street adjacent to any school property for the period of time when, in its
opinion, parking would interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected under the provisions of this section,
indicating no parking upon that side of a street adjacent to any school
property, no person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.66 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may determine and have designated by proper
signs, places not exceeding 150 feet in length in which the stopping, standing,
or parking of vehicles would create a hazardous condition or would cause
unusual delay in traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places under
the provisions of this section, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle
in any such designated place.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
Division 2. Restricted or Prohibited Parking on Certain Streets
§ 70.67 APPLICABILITY OF DIVISION.
   The provisions of this division (§§
70.67 through
70.73) prohibiting the standing or parking a vehicle shall apply at all times
or at those times herein specified and as indicated on official signs, except
when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control device.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.68 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this division imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times or under specified
conditions.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.69 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected pursuant to this division giving notice thereof, no
person shall park a vehicle at any time upon any of the streets described in
Schedule C, maintained on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.70 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in any block pursuant to this division giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle between the hours specified in
Chapter 75, of any day except Sundays and holidays within the district or upon
any of the streets described in that chapter, which is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.71 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON
CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in any block pursuant hereto giving notice thereof,
no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle between the hours specified in
Chapter 75, on any day except Sundays and holidays within the district or upon
any of the streets described in
Chapter 75, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.72 PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   One-hour parking. When signs are erected in any block pursuant to this
division giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than
one hour at any time between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day
except Sundays and holidays within the district or upon any of the streets
described in
Chapter 75, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof.
   (B)   Ninety-minute parking. When signs are erected in each block pursuant
to this division, giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for
longer than 90 minutes at any time between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
of any day except Sundays and holidays within the district or upon any of the
streets described in
Chapter 75, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof.
   (C)   Two-hour parking. When signs are erected in each block pursuant to
this division, giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer
than two hours at any time of any day except Sundays and holidays within the
district or upon any of the streets described in
Chapter 75, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof.
   (D)   Three-hour parking. When signs are erected in each block pursuant to
this division, giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer
than three hours at any time of any day except Sundays and holidays within the
district or upon any of the streets described in
Chapter 75, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof.
   (E)   Thirty-minute parking. When signs are erected in any block pursuant to
this division, giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer
than 30 minutes at any time of any day except Sundays and holidays within the
district or upon any of the streets described in
Chapter 75, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof.
   (F)   Five-minute parking. When signs are erected in any block pursuant to
this division, giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer
than five minutes at any time between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of
any day except Sundays and holidays within the district or upon any of the
streets described in
Chapter 75, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof.
   (G)   Fifteen-minute parking. When signs are erected in any block pursuant
to this division, giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for
longer than 15 minutes at any time between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
of any day except Sundays and holidays within the district or upon any of the
streets described in
Chapter 75, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.73 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in §
70.68, whenever by this chapter or by any other ordinance of this town any
parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets,
it shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees to erect appropriate signs giving
notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are
erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
Division 3. Stopping for Loading and Unloading Only
§ 70.74 BOARD OF TRUSTEES TO DESIGNATE CURB LOADING ZONES.
   The Board of Trustees, by resolution is hereby authorized to determine the
location of passenger and freight curb loading zones, and it shall have placed
and maintained appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours
during which the provisions of this section are applicable. These shall be
listed in Chapter 75, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a part
hereof.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.75 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any
place marked as a passenger curb loading zone pursuant to §
70.74 during the hours when the regulations applicable to such curb loading
zone are effective, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.76 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick-up and
loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
pursuant to §
70.74 during the hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in
effect. In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed
30 minutes.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
Division 4. Parking for Persons with Impaired Mobility
§ 70.77 DEFINITION.
   "IMPAIRED MOBILITY PERSON" as used in this division means a person who:
   (A)   Has permanently lost the use of at least one leg; or
   (B)   Is so severely permanently disabled as to be unable to move without
the aid of crutches or a wheelchair; or
   (C)   Submits a signed statement from a physician, certifying that such
person is permanently disabled in a manner making it difficult and burdensome
for such person to walk for an extended period of time.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.78 DESIGNATED PARKING SPACES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may designate space in town-owned parking lots
and on town streets, including parking lots titled in the name of any town
department, board, agency, or commission, which shall be set aside for the
exclusive use of impaired mobility persons. Such parking spaces shall be
clearly and distinctly marked so as to indicate that such spaces are reserved
for the use of impaired mobility persons. The number of designated parking
spaces shall be in accordance with applicable state statutes and shall be set
forth in
Chapter 75, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof.
   (B)   Private property owners and those residents who wish to participate
under this division shall notify the Town Marshal in writing of the number and
specific location of each parking space to be designated for impaired mobility
parking. After review of such designation by the Town Marshal and after
approval by the Board of Trustees, such spaces shall be designated with the
appropriate signs, in accordance with the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices. Only those signs that satisfy the requirement of the Indiana
manual shall be enforced. The private property owner shall be responsible for
the cost of such sign at a price equivalent to the cost incurred by the town.
In addition, the private property owner shall maintain such signs.
   (C)   Where designated parking spaces are requested and needed on town
streets, it shall be the responsibility of the petitioner to provide a petition
signed by at least 51% of the residents on both sides of the affected block of
said street. Request for the permanent placement of an approved sign shall be
submitted in writing to the Board of Trustees. After review of such request and
approval by the Board of Trustees, such spaces shall be designated with
appropriate signs. Purchase, installation, and maintenance of the signs and
posts shall be paid by the petitioner through the Board. Only one permit will
be granted to a resident or petitioner.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.79 APPLICATION AND PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person for or on behalf of any impaired mobility person who does
not have disabled veteran registration plate(s) or special registration plate
(s) may file an application for a Monroeville impaired mobility parking permit
with the Clerk-Treasurer. The application shall state the following:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the impaired mobility
person;
      (2)   A statement as to the fact that the applicant is an impaired
mobility person within the meaning of §
70.77 and if §
70.78 applies, then the applicant shall submit a signed statement from a
physician certifying that such applicant is permanently disabled in a manner
rendering it difficult and burdensome for such person to walk for an extended
period of time.
   (B)   The permit, as issued, shall be portable and same shall be clearly
displayed and visible in the windshield of the vehicle in question.
   (C)   The permit cost shall be $2 payable to the Clerk-Treasurer which sum
is charged to simply cover the cost of the town issuing such permits. Such
permits shall be valid as long as the applicant remains an impaired mobility
person within the meaning of this division and at any time that such applicant
is no longer an impaired mobility person an individual shall cease using such
permit.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.80 RESTRICTED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a space designated for
impaired mobility parking unless the vehicle bears a license plate or decal
issued by the State of Indiana containing the international wheelchair symbol
or such other symbol as the Commission of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the
State of Indiana or any other state shall designate to distinguish a vehicle
used by or to transport an impaired mobility person; or unless the vehicle has
clearly displayed in the windshield thereof a permit issued hereunder by the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.81 FINES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Failure to do any act required by this division or acting in a manner
prohibited by this division shall constitute a violation.
   (B)   A person who falsely represents himself as having the qualification to
obtain a Monroeville impaired mobility permit will be fined up to a maximum of
$100 and such person's permit shall be revoked.
   (C)   Any motor vehicle parked in an area designated for the exclusive use
of impaired mobility persons which does not bear a disabled veterans
registration plate, a special registration plate, or display a Monroeville
impaired mobility parking permit, shall be ticketed at the owner's expense. The
fine shall be $35.50 for each violation.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87; Am. Ord. 660, passed 10-7-20)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 70.82 GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any vehicle on any public or
private premises within the town or to leave any vehicle at any place within
the town for such time and under circumstances which would reasonably make such
vehicle appear to have been abandoned. No person shall leave any partially
dismantled, non-operating, wrecked, or junked vehicle on any public or private
premises within the town.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.83 REMOVAL BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent, Street Engineering is hereby denominated as the "public
agency" which shall be responsible for the removal, storage, and disposal of
abandoned vehicles, as designated in the "Abandoned Vehicle Act".
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.84 DISPOSAL OF JUNK VEHICLE FUND.
   The Board of Trustees shall provide for the sale or disposal of all such
vehicles impounded under §§
70.82 through
70.87. Any monies received shall be placed in the "Junk Vehicle Fund".
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.85 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   All of the powers, purposes, provisions, and definitions contained in such
"Abandoned Vehicle Act" are now incorporated by reference in §§
70.82 through
70.87 and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.86 REMOVAL BY OWNER; EXECUTION OF WAIVER.
   The owner of such abandoned or junk vehicle may in lieu of the above
provisions voluntarily provide for the removal and disposal of such vehicle by
executing an abandoned vehicle removal.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.87 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any provision of §§
70.82 through
70.87 shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $300. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
SNOW CONTROL ROUTES
§ 70.88 SNOW EMERGENCY - DEFINITION.
   A "SNOW EMERGENCY" is hereby declared to be a period of time prior to a
forecast by the United States Weather Bureau or during and after a snow fall,
during which vehicular traffic is expected to be particularly hazardous or
congested due to the elements, and during which period of time the parking of
vehicles could hinder, delay, and obstruct the safe flow of traffic and the
proper cleaning, clearing, and making safe of certain heavily traveled public
streets of this town, which streets shall be designated snow control routes and
listed in a schedule maintained on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.89 SAME - DETERMINATION AND PROCLAMATION BY PRESIDENT, BOARD OF TRUSTEES;
DURATION.
   A snow emergency shall commence by executive order, determination and
proclamation by the President of the Board of Trustees, before, during, or
after a snow fall when, in his sound judgment and discretion, the circumstances
warrant the declaration of such an emergency for the public safety of the town.
Such snow emergency shall continue in effect until such President determines
that an emergency no longer exists and accordingly terminates such emergency.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.90 SAME - STOPPING OR PARKING VEHICLES ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, driver, or operator of any vehicle to
park or stop the same or to permit the same to be parked or to stand at any
time during the period of any snow emergency on any of the routes or streets
listed in Chapter 75, Schedule III, which is hereby adopted by reference and
made a part hereof.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
§ 70.91 REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   Any police officer upon discovering any such vehicle so parked or stopped in
violation of this subchapter (§§
70.88 through
70.91), may remove such vehicle or cause the same to be removed to any town-
owned property or to a private garage or placed where so authorized where such
vehicle shall bo impounded and retained and shall be released only upon payment
to the Clerk-Treasurer of any storage and removal charges the town has incurred
or will incur.
(Ord. 534, passed 9-16-87)
GOLF CARTS
§ 70.95 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, golf carts which also may be referred
to and are intended to include golf carts, are defined as a self propelled
vehicle originally designed for or similar to a vehicle originally designed for
driving on a golf course and which vehicle shall convey no more than six
persons for limited distance at relatively low speeds.
   (B)   Only persons with a valid operators's license issued by the State of
Indiana or by the state of residence of the operator of the golf cart may
operate a golf cart upon the streets, alley ways and easements in the town.
   (C)   All golf carts to be operated on the public streets, alleys and right
of ways shall be registered with the town on or before May of each year and the
owners thereof shall pay a registration fee of $25 to be paid to the Office of
the Town Marshal. The owner shall also present proof of insurance not only for
the golf cart from property damage but also carry property damage and personal
liability insurance for injury or damage to property of other persons and of
personal injury to other persons with a minimum combined single limit of
$100,000.
   (D)   Registration sticker must be displayed on the front of golf cart.
   (E)   All golf carts being operated pursuant to the terms of this subchapter
shall obey all rules of the road and traffic regulations of the State of
Indiana and the Town of Monroeville.
   (F)   There shall be no golf cart traffic permitted upon the following
highways, streets or roads:
      (1)   On Main Street from Monroeville Road to South Street;
      (2)   On South Street from Main Street to Water Street to town limits.
   (G)   No golf carts shall be operated upon any sidewalks within the town.
   (H)   Golf carts shall be equipped with a rear-view mirror. All passengers
including the driver in the golf cart must be seated while that golf cart is in
motion.
   (I)   Golf carts shall be equipped with head lights and tail lights if
driven before dawn and after sunset.
   (J)   The Town Council may exempt from the provisions of this subchapter the
use of golf carts by a public safety personnel.
   (K)   A violation of the provisions of this subchapter shall be punishable
by a fine in a sum not to exceed $100. Each day a violation of this subchapter
is permitted or suffered to continue shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense. If two or more violations occur within the same calendar year, the
registration shall be suspended for the balance of the calendar year.
(Ord. 617, passed 12-4-07; Am. Ord. 657, passed 6-3-20)
Cross-reference:
Bicycles; snowmobiles; off-road vehicles, see
Ch. 73
CHAPTER 71: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 72: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES; SNOWMOBILES; OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01 Scope of regulations; parental responsibility
   
73.02 Traffic laws to apply
   
73.03 Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.04 Riding on bicycles
   
73.05 Riding on roadways or bike paths
   
73.06 Speed
   
73.07 Emerging from alleys or driveways
   
73.08 Attaching to vehicles
   
73.09 Carrying articles
   
73.10 Parking
   
73.11 Riding on sidewalks
   
73.12 Lamps and other equipment
Snowmobiles; Off-Road Vehicles
   
73.40 Statutory authority
   
73.41 Definitions
   
73.42 ATV, UTV and snowmobile regulations
   
73.43 Operation during emergencies
   
73.44 Use of dirt bikes, mini bikes, and/or go karts prohibited
 
   
73.99 Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The parent of any child, the guardian of any ward, or any other person
standing in loco parentis to any child, shall not authorize or knowingly permit
any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC LAWS TO APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of the
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this subchapter or traffic ordinances of this town applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except as modified by this subchapter and except as to
those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs, and other traffic-control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by the town police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event the person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to the pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (C)   The operator of a motorcycle, bicycle, or motor scooter when upon a
street shall not carry any other person upon the handlebars, frame, or tank of
any vehicle, nor shall any person so ride upon any such vehicle.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS OR BIKE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than single
file, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall use the roadway.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 EMERGING FROM ALLEYWAYS OR DRIVEWAYS.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching the roadway.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 ATTACHING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach the bicycle or himself
or herself to any vehicle upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, sled, roller skates,
motor scooter, or any toy vehicle shall not attach it or himself or herself to
any moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or articles
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon the sidewalk other than in a rack to
support the bicycle or against the building or at the curb, in such a manner as
to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such a person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible signal
before overtaking or passing that pedestrian.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.12 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped and have in
operation a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear
thereof at all times, of a type which shall be visible at least 300 feet to the
rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any persons use upon a
bicycle a siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
SNOWMOBILES; OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 73.40 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to IC 14-16-1-22 and IC 14-16-2-23, and
is supplemental to and shall be construed in conjunction with IC 14-16-1 and IC
14-16-2 as from time to time hereafter amended.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 73.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DIRT BIKE." Any two-wheeled vehicle capable of cross-country travel on
natural terrain without benefit of a road or trail.
   "GO KART." Any motorized, miniature vehicle capable of achieving speeds in
excess of ten miles per hour and commonly used on courses or race tracks
specifically designed for such vehicles.
   "HIGHWAY," "STREET," or "RIGHT-OF-WAY." The entire width between the
boundary lines every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to
the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   "OFF-ROAD VEHICLE." A motor-driven vehicle capable of cross-country travel,
without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water, snow,
ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain. "OFF-ROAD VEHICLE" includes,
but is not limited to, a multi-wheel drive or low-pressure tire vehicle,
amphibious machine, ground-effect air cushion vehicle, or other means of
transportation deriving motive power from a source other than muscle or wind.
It does not include a farm vehicle being used for farming, a vehicle used for
military or law enforcement purposes, construction, mining, or other industrial
related vehicles used in performance of its common function, or a registered
aircraft.
   "OPERATE." To ride in or on and to be in actual physical control of the
operation of a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle.
   "OPERATOR." Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or an off-road vehicle.
   "OWNER." Any person, other than a lienholder, having the property in or
title to a snowmobile or an off-road vehicle, entitled to the use or possession
thereof.
   "SNOWMOBILE." Any motor-driven vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow
or ice of a type which utilizes sled-type runners or skis, or an endless belt
tread or any combination of these or other similar means of contact with the
surface upon which it is operated.
   "VEHICLE." A snowmobile or an off-road vehicle.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 73.42 ATV, UTV, AND SNOWMOBILE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   ATVs, UTVs and snowmobiles shall be allowed to ride on the right
shoulder of all town roads or, if not possible, in the normal flow of traffic
on the roadway; provided, however, snowmobiles shall ride on the roads of the
town only for the purpose of obtaining essential services, such as gas, food,
medicine or for emergency purposes. ATV, UTV and snowmobile traffic will yield
the right-of-way to vehicular traffic in all directions and shall comply with
all posted speed limits, but shall not exceed 45 mph.
   (B)   ATVs, UTVs, and snowmobiles shall run with headlights and taillights
switched on and in good operation at all times. ATVs and UTVs may be equipped
with directional lights, which may be utilized when making a turn. Operators of
ATVs, UTVs and snowmobiles shall utilize hand signals when making a turn.
   (C)   Drivers must be 18 years of age and must have a valid driver's
license.
   (D)   The operator and any passenger of a snowmobile shall be required to
wear a safety helmet which meets current state requirements for motorcycle
riders.
   (E)   The town makes no representations as to the safety of its roadways or
the use of its roadways for ATV, UTV and snowmobiling purposes. All operation
of ATVs, UTVs and snowmobiles is undertaken at the risk of the operator and his
or her passengers. All ATVs, UTVs and snowmobiles shall only carry the maximum
number of occupants in which that unit intended to accommodate.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.43 OPERATION DURING EMERGENCIES.
   Town police officers may authorize use of a vehicle on the public highways,
streets, and the right-of-way within the town during emergencies pursuant to IC
14-16-2-21(4).
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 73.44 USE OF DIRT BIKES, MINI BIKES AND/OR GO KARTS PROHIBITED.
   To protect the citizens of and visitors to the town, the use of dirt bikes,
and/or go karts is prohibited upon the public streets, public parks, alleys,
and sidewalks within the town.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.12 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1 or more than $10 or by
the removal and detention of the license plate from that person's bicycle for a
period not to exceed 30 days, or by impoundment of the person's bicycle for a
like period or any combination thereof.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
73.42 and
73.44, or any subsequent amendment thereto, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined for each such violation any sum not exceeding $100 for any such offense.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   Editor's note: All traffic schedules of the town, along with any amendments
thereto, are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
These schedules shall be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk and shall
be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
   
75.01 Definitions
   
75.02 Parking on town rights-of-way
   
75.03 Traffic laws to apply
   
75.04 Vehicle condition
 
   
75.99 Penalty
§ 75.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CAMPER." A pick-up camper, truck camper, and any other vehicle fitted or
suitable for recreational camping.
   "MOTOR HOME." A small bus or truck-like vehicle with a room-like area behind
the driver's seat outfitted as living quarters.
   "RECREATIONAL VEHICLE." A vehicle with or without motive power equipped
exclusively for living quarters for persons traveling upon the highways.
   "TRAILER." A vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property which is designed for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   "WATERCRAFT." A contrivance used or defined for navigation on the water
including a vessel, boat, motor vessel, sailboat, a vessel operated by
machinery either permanently or temporarily affixed, or any other marine
equipment that is capable of carrying passengers, and which is situated on a
trailer with a valid and current registration and license.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 75.02 PARKING ON TOWN RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   All of the vehicles defined in §
75.01 except trailers are allowed to be parked on town rights-of-way, but only
one such vehicle per owner may be parked on those rights-of-way and only if
such vehicle is parked in front of the primary residence of the owner of the
such vehicle.
   (B)   No person in charge or control of any premises within the town,
whether as owner, tenant, lessee, occupant or otherwise, shall permit or allow
any travel trailer, truck camper, camper top, or similar camping outfit,
trailer, boat or boat trailers to remain upon such premises at a place less
than 20 feet from the inside sidewalk or 30 feet from the boundary of such
premises if there is no sidewalk line.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 75.03 TRAFFIC LAWS TO APPLY.
   All of the vehicles listed in §
75.01 must comply with all statutory traffic laws within the state at all
times. This includes but is not limited to, current registration plates and
appropriate reflective material required by such statutes.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 75.04 VEHICLE CONDITION.
   All vehicles listed in §
75.01 must be in good working order, and if three or more complaints are
received by appropriate representatives of the town regarding the condition of
any such vehicle which is not in good working order, said vehicle must be moved
off the town right-of-way until said vehicle is restored to good working order
to be in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of $50 for the first offense and $75 for the second or subsequent offense
within any 12-month period. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day that a violation occurs or continues. The town police officer shall
have the authority to enforce the terms of this chapter and shall further have
the authority to cause any vehicle illegally parked to be towed at the owner's
expense. Said vehicle may then be stored at the cost of the owner until such
time as the owner has paid the towing costs and storage costs in full.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
   
92.   LITTERING
   
93.   NUISANCES
   
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
95.   GARBAGE
   
96.   NOISE CONTROL
   
97.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
98.   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Cruelty to animals
   
90.03   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.04   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.05   Keeping of animals
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   Dogs running at large
   
90.17   Interference with Humane Officer
   
90.18   Rabies protection
   
90.19   Harboring a fierce dog
   
90.20   Harboring a noisy dog
   
90.21   Poisoning dogs prohibited
   
90.22   Restrictions on harboring dogs and cats
   
90.23   Breeders permits/kennel/cattery permits
   
90.24   Enforcement and inspections
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ABANDON.” To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or
perform the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner,
or his agent. Such abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all
rights and claims by the owner to such animal.
   “OWNER.” Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals when except as authorized by
law he is intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, mutilation,
beating, torturing, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space,
or health care, or by any other means; or
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   Any peace officer may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed,
any animal found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or
appearing to be injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful
purpose.
§ 90.05 KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall raise, breed, keep or maintain any animals, livestock,
poultry, game birds or bees within the limits of the town, except that dogs or
cats or other household pets may be kept in compliance with Title IX, §
90.15.
(Ord. 631, passed 7-7-11) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   Any person who shall allow a dog or cat habitually to remain and be lodged
and be fed within his house, store, or enclosure shall be considered as
“HARBORING” the dog or cat within the meaning of §§
90.19 and
90.22.
(Ord. 469, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 630, passed 7-13-11)
§ 90.16 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner of, or having the
care, custody, or control of any dog to allow, suffer, or permit such a dog to
be at large upon the streets or other public places in the town or in or on any
other place beyond the premises of that person, unless the dog be on leash or
otherwise under the complete control of a person capable of controlling such
dog. It shall be the duty of every Humane Officer and Assistant Humane Officer
to apprehend and impound all dogs found running at large contrary to the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Any dog or animal so apprehended and impounded shall be delivered to
the animal shelter operated by and under the supervision of the Fort Wayne-
Allen County Humane Commission, and any animals once delivered to the
Commission shall be under the Commission’s jurisdiction and subject to all of
the Commission’s rules and regulations as now established or as hereinafter
adopted. The rules and regulations at the present time provide, in addition to
other matters, that any dog so impounded may be redeemed by the owner within 72
hours after the impounding of such dog by reclaiming the dog at the humane
shelter where it is impounded. For the second such offense the owner of the dog
shall pay to the City of Fort Wayne, Indiana, a redemption fee of $5, and for
the third and each subsequent offense, the owner of the dog shall pay to the
City of Fort Wayne, Indiana, a redemption fee of $10. The fee shall be paid to
the City Controller of the City of Fort Wayne, Indiana, who shall thereupon
issue a receipt for the fee; upon the presentation of the receipt to the person
in charge of the humane shelter, the dog shall be released to the owner
thereof. No dog shall be released unless the owner shall also show a dog-tax
receipt as proof of ownership.
   (C)   All impounded dogs not released within 72 hours after being impounded
may be placed in suitable homes or destroyed in a humane manner by the Fort
Wayne-Allen County Humane Commission. The person in charge of the humane
shelter shall keep an accurate record of all impounded dogs, which record shall
show the time each dog is impounded, the disposition made of each dog, and all
other appropriate information.
(Ord. 423, passed - - ; Am. Ord 469, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Animal shelters, see IC 36-8-2-6
§ 90.17 INTERFERENCE WITH HUMANE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, molest, or interfere with any
Humane Officer or other official authorized to perform any duty described in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 469, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 RABIES PROTECTION.
   (A)   Epidemics. In the event the County Board of Public Health shall
declare in writing that an emergency exists by reason of a rabies epidemic
among dogs and other domestic animals requiring a quarantine for rabies, it
shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such animal to roam at
large on the streets or places other than his own premises, within the town,
except as provided in division (A)(1) below.
      (1)   No dog shall be allowed beyond the premises of its owner unless
that dog is: on leash, controlled by some person physically able to prevent the
animal from biting; muzzled in such a manner as to make biting impossible; and
displaying a license tag issued by the Township Assessor’s Office, and also a
tag showing that an anti-rabies vaccine had been administered to that
particular animal within the last 12 months.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Humane Officer of the town and his
assistants to enforce the provisions of this division and to impound at the
humane shelter all dogs at large not conforming to this division. The impounded
dogs may be redeemed by the owner within 72 hours by the payment of a
redemption fee as provided for by the rules and regulations of the Fort Wayne-
Allen County Humane Commission. All impounded dogs not redeemed within 72 hours
may be destroyed or disposed of in accordance with the rules and regulations of
the Fort Wayne-Allen County Humane Commission, which rules provide in addition
to other matters that no dogs being held for observation shall be released or
destroyed until the expiration of the observation period.
   (B)   Dog bites. It shall be the duty of every Humane Officer and Assistant
Humane Officer to impound any dog which has bitten another animal or has bitten
a human being and to deliver the same forthwith to the animal shelter of the
Fort Wayne-Allen County Humane Commission, where all such dogs shall be kept
impounded for a period of not less than 14 days for observation for rabies. In
the event the dog is determined not to be rabid, the dog shall be thereupon
released to its owner, if so reclaimed. If the owner shall fail to reclaim such
dog within 72 hours after receipt of written notification thereof from the Fort
Wayne-Allen County Humane Commission, the Commission may place the dog in a
suitable home or destroy it in a humane manner.
(Ord. 469, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 HARBORING A FIERCE DOG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, or having the care of
a vicious or fierce dog to suffer or permit such animal to go unconfined or run
at large.
(Ord. 469, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 HARBORING A NOISY DOG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep any animal of the dog
kind which by loud and frequent or habitual barking, howling, or yelping shall
cause serious annoyance or disturbance to the neighborhood.
(Ord. 423, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 469, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 POISONING DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any poisoned meats
or any poisonous substance in any of the lots, streets, or public market spaces
or commons of the town for the purpose of destroying any animal of the dog
kind.
(Ord. 469, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 RESTRICTIONS ON HARBORING DOGS AND CATS.
   On or about any lot, premises, dwelling, building, structure, or property of
any kind, it shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep more than four
dogs or cats or any combination thereof, of which no more than one may be non-
spayed or non-neutered, over the age of four months, and no more than two of
the four dogs or cats shall be housed outside of the dwelling unit or structure
located on any lot or property of any kind. The foregoing restrictions shall
not apply for a person who has obtained the approval of the majority of the
members of the Town Board for a foster care license to keep more than four dogs
or cats. Such person shall file a petition with the Town Board in the form
prescribed by the town and a vote of the members upon such petition shall be
taken at the next regularly scheduled Town Board meeting.
(Ord. 630, passed 7-13-11) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 BREEDERS PERMITS/KENNEL/CATTERY PERMITS.
   Any person seeking to maintain a kennel or act as a breeder of dogs or cats
within the town shall comply with the zoning ordinances of Allen County, as
outlined in
Chapter 151 of th town’s Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 630, passed 7-13-11)
§ 90.24 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTIONS.
   Whenever it may become necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this chapter or when there is
reasonable cause to believe that there exists upon any premises any violation
of the provisions of this chapter, an Allen County Animal Control Officer, the
Town of Monroeville Town Marshal or such other person or entity duly authorized
by the Town Board is authorized at all reasonable times to inspect the same for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, provided that:
   (A)   If the property is occupied, the officer shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and explain the reasons for requesting entry
thereon; and
   (B)   If the property is unoccupied, the officer shall make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having control of the property and
explain the reasons for requesting entry thereon.
(Ord. 630, passed 7-13-11)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs
or continues.
   (B)   A person violating §
90.05, upon conviction, shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $35.50. (Ord.
418, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 660, passed 10-7-20)
   (C)   Any person violating or failing to comply with the provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.21 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $50 for
the first violation, and not less than $50 nor more than $100 for any
additional violations. The court in its discretion, however, upon the
conviction of any person violating §§
90.19 or
90.20 may order any such vicious or fierce dog or any dog causing any
annoyance, as described in §
90.20, turned over to the Humane Commission, to be disposed of by the
Commission, or he may order any such vicious or fierce dog which has attacked
any person to be killed by the Commission. However, before the Commission shall
dispose of any dog by killing, it shall first make a report to the court in
which the cause is pending, and the court may, upon receiving such report,
order the dog killed by the Commission. Before any such vicious or fierce
animal which has attacked any person shall be killed, it shall be kept by the
Commission for a period of time under observation, all as provided for by the
rules and regulations of the Commission.
(Ord. 469, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 516, passed - - )
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
   Section
   
91.01   Connection of stovepipes to flues
   
91.02    Burning of leaves
Smoke Detectors
   
91.10   Definitions
   
91.11   Basic requirements
   
91.12   Installation and location
   
91.13   Maintenance
   
91.14   Duty of property owner
   
91.15   Enforcement of provisions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 CONNECTION OF STOVEPIPES TO FLUES.
   It shall be unlawful to connect any pipe of any stove, or other heating
apparatus, to any chimney or any flue, unless that chimney or flue be made of
brick, stone, iron, or other material approved by Insurance Underwriters.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 BURNING OF LEAVES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn any
leaves within the corporate limits of the town between the hours of 6:00 p.m.
and 8:00 a.m.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn any
leaves in the streets of the town.
(Ord. 424, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
91.99
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 91.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter (§§
91.10 -
91.15) the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION.” The Marshal of the town.
   “DWELLING UNIT.” That structure, area, room, or combination of rooms in
which a family (or individual) lives. This is meant to cover living area only
and not common usage areas in multi-family buildings such as corridors,
lobbies, basements, etc.
   “LABELED.” Equipment or materials to which has been attached a label,
symbol, or other identifying mark of an organization acceptable to the Town
Marshal.
   “LISTED.” Equipment or materials included in a list published by an
organization acceptable to the Town Marshal and which product meets appropriate
standards or has been tested and found suitable for use in a specified manner.
   “NFPA74.” Standard 74 of the National Fire Protection Association, which is
located in Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MD 02269.
   “SLEEPING AREAS.” The area or areas of the family living unit in which the
bedrooms (or sleeping rooms) separated from other use areas, such as kitchens
or living rooms, (but not bathrooms) shall be considered sleeping areas.
   “SMOKE DETECTOR.” A device which detects visible or invisible particles or
products of combustion other than heat, as approved by Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc. or Factory Mutual. The smoke detector shall be equipped with
a test button, and it shall produce an alarm signal upon detection of any
visible or invisible particles or products of combustion. It may be either
battery powered with a minimum 9 volt or it may be powered by a 110 volt
alternating current.
(Ord. 541, passed - - )
§ 91.11 BASIC REQUIREMENTS.
   All family dwelling units within the limits of the town shall be equipped
with a minimum of one functional, properly located, labeled and listed smoke
detector, or its equivalent or better, as described in the National Fire
Protection Association Standard 74.
(Ord. 541, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 INSTALLATION AND LOCATION.
   (A)   If placement in dwelling units are not specified by the manufacturer,
then the smoke detector shall be installed to protect the sleeping areas and
shall be located outside of the bedrooms but in the immediate vicinity of the
sleeping areas, within 15 feet of all rooms used for sleeping areas.
   (B)   If method of installation is not specified by the manufacturer, the
smoke detector shall be installed on or near the ceiling, not less than six
inches from any wall, or on a wall, not less than six inches nor more than 12
inches from the ceiling, and its installation shall be subject to approval by
the Town Marshal. No detector shall be recessed into the ceiling.
   (C)   If a smoke detector is solely A.C. powered and the manufacturer of
such detector device does not supply specifications as to its installation, it
must be directly attached to a junction box not controlled by any switch other
than the main power supply. The installation of an A.C. powered detector shall
conform to all electrical standards adopted by the Allen County Building
Department. A smoke detector required under this code shall be installed
according to the directions and specifications of the manufacturer, but if it
conflicts with any county electrical standard, the county electrical standard
shall take precedence.
   (D)   Questions as to proper installation of smoke detectors can be referred
to the Allen County Building Department or the Monroeville Volunteer Fire
Department.
(Ord. 541, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or remove any smoke
detector, except when it is necessary for maintenance or inspection purposes.
Any smoke detector removed for repair, replacement, rebuilding, repainting, or
remodeling shall be reinstalled or replaced so that it is operable and in place
during normal sleeping hours, before said dwelling unit is reinhabited.
   (A)   Rental residential dwelling units. Each smoke detector shall be tested
in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations, but shall be tested at 12-
month intervals in every individual residential dwelling unit, and maintained
as necessary, to ensure it is in operable condition. At any change of tenancy,
smoke detectors shall be tested by the owner of the premises and be in operable
condition before the unit is reoccupied.
   (B)   Owner-occupied dwelling units. Each smoke detector shall be tested in
accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations, and shall be tested at 12-month
intervals, and maintained as necessary, to ensure it is in operable condition.
(Ord. 541, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   Every owner shall be responsible for the installation of smoke detectors as
hereinabove provided in any residential dwelling owned by him. In the event the
residential dwelling unit is a residential unit and non-owner occupied, then it
shall be the responsibility of the tenant of said dwelling unit to install and
maintain such smoke detectors which shall be provided by the owner and to
maintain them in good working order until said tenant vacates the premises
unless said smoke detector requires A.C. power supply, solely in which case the
responsibility for maintaining such smoke detector shall be the responsibility
of the owner of the property.
(Ord. 541, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The Marshal of the town shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the
terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 541, passed - - )
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
91.01 or
91.02 shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $35.50.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 424, passed - -; Am. Ord. 660, passed 10-7-20)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of §§
91.10 through
91.15 shall be subject to a fine of $50. Each day such violation is permitted
to continue may be deemed to constitute a separate offense. Funds received from
penalties paid pursuant to §§
91.10 through
91.15 shall go to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 541, passed - - )
CHAPTER 92: LITTERING
Section
   
92.01     Throwing litter from vehicle
   
92.02     Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
92.03   Hauling loose material
   
92.04     Sweeping litter into gutters
   
92.05     Merchants to keep sidewalks free of litter
   
92.06     Posting notices; distributing handbills
   
92.07     Litter on private property
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate for the public health, see IC 36-8-2-4
§ 92.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the municipality or upon
private property.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the municipality,
the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley, or
other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of
any kind.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the municipality the accumulation of litter from any building or
lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or
occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of
litter.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 MERCHANTS TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street, or other public place within the municipality
the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or
private sidewalk. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
municipality shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free
of litter.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 POSTING NOTICES; DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS.
   (A)   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster, or other paper or
device which is calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamp
post, public utility pole, or shade tree, or upon any public structure or
building, except as may be authorized by law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, cast, throw, or
place in, upon, or along any of the streets, alleys, or public places of the
town, any handbills, pamphlets, circulars, books, or advertisement, for the
purpose or with the intent of advertising or making known in a general or
promiscuous manner any occupation, profession, medical treatment, medicines, or
anything whatever. (Ord. 418, passed - - )
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the municipality, whether owned by that person or not, except
that the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets,
sidewalks, or other public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the municipality whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
92.06(B), upon conviction, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $10. (Ord.
418, passed - - )
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01    Definitions
   
93.02    Common law and statutory nuisances
   
93.03    Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
93.04   Notice to abate
   
93.05   Nuisance created by others
   
93.06    Suspension of license
   
93.07    Accumulations of trash; abatement
   
93.08    Unauthorized dumping; abatement
   
93.09    Removal of weeds, tall grass and other vegetation
 
   
93.99    Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Junk cars, see
Ch. 98
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DWELLING." Any part of any building or its premises used as a place of
residence or habitation or for sleeping by any person.
   "NUISANCE." Any person doing an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty,
or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others; or
      (2)   Offends decency; or
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses; or
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage; or
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   "SCRAP METAL." Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   "UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION." Dangerous or detrimental to life or health
because of: want of repair; defects in the drainage, plumbing, lighting,
ventilation, or construction; infection with contagious disease; or the
existence on the premises of an unsanitary condition likely to cause sickness
among occupants of the dwelling.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 93.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Indiana as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the municipality to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or
permitting to be or remain on any public or private property of any of the
following items, conditions or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute
a nuisance; provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or
construed to be conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
   (A)   Dwellings unfit for human habitation. The erection, use, or
maintenance of a dwelling which is unfit for human habitation.
   (B)   Dangerous buildings adjoining streets. Any building, house, or
structure so out of repair and dilapidated that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property using or being upon the streets or
public way of the municipality adjoining the premises, by reason of the
collapse of the building, house, or structure or by the falling of parts
thereof or of objects therefrom.
   (C)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (D)   Dilapidated buildings. Any building, house, or structure which is so
out of repair and dilapidated that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to catch
on fire or communicate fire, or which due to lack of adequate maintenance or
neglect, endangers the public health, welfare, or safety, or materially
interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent
property.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal regulation of building improvements, see IC 36-7-2-5
   (E)   Noxious odors or smoke. Emission into the surrounding atmosphere of
odor, dust, smoke, or other matter which renders ordinary use or physical
occupation of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal regulation of air pollution, see IC 36-8-2-8
   (F)   Noise. Emission of noise which is noxious enough to destroy the
enjoyment of dwellings or other uses of property in the vicinity by interfering
with the ordinary comforts of human existence.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal regulation of sound pollution, see IC 36-8-2-8
   (G)   Storage of explosives or combustible material. The storage of
combustible or explosive material which creates a safety hazard to other
property or persons in the vicinity.
   (H)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (I)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets and sidewalks. The growing and
maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet clearance over streets or less than
eight feet over sidewalks, or the growing and maintenance of shrubbery in
excess of three feet in height within the radius of 20 feet from the point
where the curb line of any street intersects the curb line of another street.
No shrub shall be planted between the curb line and the property line of any
street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any
street intersects with the curb line of another street.
   (J)   Scrap metal. The storage of scrap metal within the municipal limits
except on premises authorized by the municipality for such purposes.
   (K)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber of other things.
   (L)   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained.
   (M)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation.
   (N)   Any grass or weeds attaining the height of nine inches or more.
   (O)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see IC 9-22-1-1 et seq.
§ 93.04 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Written notice. Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the town
or within the town's extraterritorial jurisdiction, a police officer, Town
Superintendent, or member of the Town Board shall give five days' written
notice to the owner or occupant of the property upon which such nuisance exists
or upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance.
   (B)   Contents of notice. The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the
provisions of this section shall contain:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a
stated time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
      (3)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
      (5)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the town will abate
such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person.
   (C)   Service of notice. The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served as
any other legal process may be served pursuant to law.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 93.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 93.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the legislative body that a
nuisance exists and the legislative body deems that there is an immediate
threat to the public health, safety, welfare, the legislative body may by
majority vote suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the
premises where the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The municipality shall cause notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the legislative body may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 93.07 ACCUMULATIONS OF TRASH; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any dwelling house,
building, or structure of any kind or description whatsoever, and of any lot or
parcel of real estate, to remove or cause to be removed from such dwelling
house, building, structure, lot, or parcel of real estate, all ashes, waste,
unwholesome materials, and impure substances of every kind and description.
   (B)   Upon failure of any such person to remove or cause to be removed any
such ashes, waste, unwholesome material or impure substances, the police
officer is hereby authorized to order the same to be removed from such dwelling
house, building, structure, lot, or parcel of any real estate, and if the same
is not removed by such person within five hours after notice on that person, to
cause the removal thereof at the expense of that person, or the person who may
be in charge of such building, dwelling house, structure, lot, or parcel of
real estate, or in lieu of such notice may immediately issue a citation for a
fine to the owner, occupant, or person in charge.
   (C)   If the owner or occupant or person in charge of the premises cannot be
found for the purpose of notice, the police officer of the town can cause all
such waste, ashes, unwholesome materials, and impure substances to be removed
to some suitable place at the expense of the owner, occupant, or person in
charge. It shall also be the duty of every owner, or occupant, and person in
charge, to cause all dwelling places, buildings, structures, cellars, privies,
rooms, halls, and any outbuildings to be kept and maintained at all time in
such order and condition so that the same shall not be foul, unhealthful, or
unhealthy or sufficiently noisy that the noise can be heard on any other
owner's property.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 93.08 UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, a nuisance, and a violation of this chapter for
any person, company, or business to throw or deposit or permit any child,
servant, member of the family, or any other person under his, her, or its
control to throw, deposit or keep any manure, rubbish, tin cans, junk, putrid
or unsound animal or vegetable matter, or any filthy, unwholesome or
deleterious substances, including environmental hazardous substances, or any
substances that are liable to become unwholesome or deleterious, or keep junk
motor vehicles as defined in
Chapter 98, in or into or upon any street, lane, alley, sidewalk, gutter,
crossing, lot, cellar, premises, or upon any public or private place not zoned
for such use.
   (B)   All garbage shall be disposed of in a manner to be designated by the
Town Council and all regulations and ordinances shall be enforced by the town
police officer. The town police officer shall have the power and the authority
to enter into and upon any street, lot, alley, premises, building, or ground
for the purpose of making a sanitary survey of the same, and if any unsanitary
condition is found, such town police officer shall immediately notify the
person or persons so offending in writing fixing a time limit to abate the
nuisance. Should such person or persons fail to abate such nuisance within the
time specified by the town police officer shall cause such nuisance to be
abated. However, if the property has within the preceding 12-month period
already received a notice to abate, the town police officer shall have no
requirement to give the person or persons the opportunity to abate, but may,
among all other options, immediately fine the person or persons under §
93.99(A). If the town undertakes abatement, the town shall keep account of the
expense of such abatement, which expense shall be collectible as damages
against the violator. The right of the town to recover such expenses is in
addition to the town's right to levy a penalty under §
93.99(A).
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 93.09 REMOVAL OF WEEDS, TALL GRASS AND OTHER VEGETATION.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful, a nuisance and a violation of this
chapter for owners and occupants of real estate to allow weeds, grass in excess
of nine inches tall, and rank vegetation to grow on the real estate owned or
occupied by such persons.
   (B)   The town police officer shall cause notice of any such violation to be
served upon the occupant and/or owner of the real estate in writing with
direction to remove the offending weeds, grass and vegetation within five days.
Failure to comply within the five-day period shall subject the person served to
the penalties prescribed in §
93.99(A) as well as rendering the owner and/or occupant liable to the town as
provided in §
93.09(C). However, if the town police officer has, within the preceding 12-
month period, provided a notice to any owner or occupant to abate, the town
police officer shall have no obligation to provide the person or persons the
opportunity to abate, but may, among all other options, immediately fine the
person or persons under §
93.99(A). If the town undertakes abatement, the town shall keep account of the
expense of such abatement, which expense shall be collectible as damages
against the violator. The right of the town to recover such expenses is in
addition to the town's right to levy a penalty under §
93.99(A).
   (C)   In addition to the town levying a fine against owners and/or occupants
in violation of §
93.09(B), the town hereby also authorizes the town to recover from the owner
and/or occupant through real estate taxes for the costs of cutting the grass
and restoring the yard to a condition conforming to this section provided in IC
36-7-10.1-3, and the town hereby adopts that statute. In every case where the
town seeks to record a lien as provided in this subsection, the town will
adhere to the following procedures: the town police officer shall prepare a
written notice to the owner of the offending real estate, advising the person
that he or she is in violation of this section of the code, and granting that
person not less than five days after receipt of notice to remove the weeds,
rank vegetation, and/or cut the grass so that the real estate conforms to the
section. This notice shall be served by the town police officer on the owner of
the real estate if the owner is a resident of the town or by registered mail to
the last known address of the owner if not a resident. If the owner fails to
remedy the situation by removing the vegetation or cutting the grass within the
time prescribed, the town may perform the actions itself. The Clerk Treasurer
of the town will make a certified statement of the actual cost incurred by the
town in the removal. The statement will be delivered to the owner of the
property by the town police officer, or by registered mail, and the owner shall
pay the amount to the Clerk-Treasurer. If the owner (or occupant) fails to pay
that amount within ten days after receiving the statement, a certified copy of
the statement of costs can be filed in the office of the Auditor of Allen
County. The auditor shall place the amount claimed on the tax duplicate against
the property affected by the work, and the amount shall be collected as taxes
are collected and shall be disbursed to the general fund of the town. In cases
where the town does not intend to recover the costs as real estate taxes, the
town can, if the yard is in violation, proceed to restore the real estate to a
conforming condition and directly recover from the owner and/or occupant the
reasonable costs of so restoring the real estate.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails, neglects or refuses to comply with this chapter, after
having been given five days' notice, shall, upon conviction be fined in the sum
not exceeding $50 per day. In enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the
town shall also be entitled to collect reasonable attorney fees and court costs
in addition to any other fines and penalties as provided by this chapter and by
law.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
94.01   Opening permit required
   
94.02   Application and cash deposit
   
94.03   Restoration of pavement
   
94.04   Barriers around excavations
   
94.05   Warning lights
   
94.06   Sidewalk construction
   
94.07   Painting sidewalks
Obstructions
   
94.20   Unloading on street, sidewalk
   
94.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
94.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
94.23   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
94.99   Penalty
                    
Statutory reference:
   Maintenance of public streets and ways, see IC 36-9-2-5
   Regulating use of public ways, see IC 36-9-2-7
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 94.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the Street Commissioner,
Municipal Engineer, or other authorized person, to make any opening in any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the municipality unless a permit to
make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of the work. Penalty,
see §
94.99
§ 94.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the executive or other proper administrative officer.
Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the legislative body, giving
the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and
depth to be excavated, and such other facts as may be provided for. The permit
shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of
restoration has been posted with the executive or other proper administrative
officer, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 94.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement of other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the Street
Commissioner, Municipal Engineer, or other authorized person, and in accordance
with rules, regulations, and specifications approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the municipality may proceed
without notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in
§
94.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate fund of the municipality, except such part demanded and paid to the
permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the
municipality for restoration services performed by it. If the amount of such
services performed by the municipality should exceed the amount of the deposit,
the Clerk or other proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the
remainder due from the permittee.
§ 94.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating, or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way, shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of such obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved shall exceed 50 feet in extent, then at least one additional
lamp for each added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All owners of real estate within the corporate limits of the town
shall, at their own expense, be responsible for constructing, restoring,
repairing and maintaining in an attractive, safe condition, all sidewalks that
abut and/or pass next to or across part of their property, hereinafter
“Responsible Owner.”
   (B)   Responsible Owner shall repair and maintain sidewalks as needed but no
later than 90 days after written notification from the President of the Town
Council. Responsible Owner shall construct new sidewalks (where none have been
before) within 90 days after written notification from the President of the
Town Council and shall replace sidewalk that has been removed within 30 days
after the President’s written notification.
   (C)   Notwithstanding, and in addition to, any penalty that may be assessed
pursuant to §
94.99, if Responsible Owner fails to maintain, repair, replace or restore
sidewalks within the time set forth in subsection (B), the town may undertake
such construction, repair, maintenance, replacement and restoration and may
charge Responsible Owner all costs of such work, including labor costs, even if
town employees perform such work.
   (D)   All sidewalks hereafter constructed or laid within the corporate
limits of the town shall be built or constructed of cement, shall be 48 inches
in width, shall have a minimum thickness of five inches, and shall have a
minimum foundation of six inches of sand.
   (E)   Unless a written deviation is obtained from the President of the Town
Council, all sidewalks hereafter constructed or laid within the corporate
limits of the town shall be built next to the street which abuts the property
line, shall be built within one foot from the property line, and shall connect
to the sidewalks of adjacent Responsible Owners.
   (F)   No sidewalk shall be constructed, laid, or restored within the
corporate limits of the town until prior approval thereof shall have been first
obtained from the President of the Town Council. All parties have the right to
appeal any decision to the full board within 30 days. The appeal must be in
writing.
(Ord. 588, passed 7-7-98) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 PAINTING SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the Street Commissioner,
Municipal Engineer, or other authorized person, to paint any sidewalk surface
with permanent liquid or spray, or other paint material unless a permit to
paint the sidewalk has been obtained from the Town Council of Monroeville prior
to commencement of the painting.
(Ord. 643, passed 6-1-16)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 94.20 UNLOADING ON STREET, SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the
municipality, by throwing or letting the same fall upon the pavement of any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some
sufficient protection over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the municipality, by erecting thereon any fence or building, or
permitting any fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any such
fence or building is permitted to remain upon such public way shall be deemed a
separate offense.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit the same to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the municipality abutting upon any sidewalk to keep
the sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice, and to
remove therefrom all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time,
which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm
during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs
or continues.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of §
94.06 shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $10 and each and every day’s
continuance shall be deemed a distinct offense.
(Ord. 425, passed - - )
CHAPTER 95: GARBAGE
Section
   
95.01   Administration by Board of Trustees
   
95.02    Provision of service
   
95.03   Private collection restricted
   
95.04   Unauthorized collection declared a nuisance
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Accumulations of trash, see §
93.07
   Unauthorized dumping, see §
93.08
§ 95.01 ADMINISTRATION BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The collection and disposal of refuse in the town shall be under the
exclusive supervision and control of the Board of Trustees, and the Board shall
have exclusive power to take all stops and proceedings and to make and enter
into all contracts and agreements necessary or incidental to the performance of
its duties and the execution of its powers under IC 36-9-30.
(Ord. 463, passed 12-21-70)
§ 95.02 PROVISION OF SERVICE.
   Pursuant to and in accordance with the powers and duties vested in the Board
of Trustees by the provisions of the Acts of the Indiana General Assembly, the
Board of Trustees shall provide for the collection or disposal of refuse in the
town:
   (A)   By the employment of personnel to perform such work;
   (B)   By contracting with persons, firms, or corporations to render such
services;
   (C)   By any other method it shall provide by ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 463, passed 12-21-70)
§ 95.03 PRIVATE COLLECTION RESTRICTED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall collect and dispose of any refuse from
any residence, citizens, or business establishment in the town for pay or any
other consideration; or make any effort to do so without first obtaining the
written approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 463, passed 12-21-70) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTION DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   The proper collection of refuse from the residents, citizens, and business
establishments of the town, and the proper and sanitary disposal thereof is
vital to the health, welfare, and ecology of the citizens of the town and its
environs, and any solicitation, collection, or disposal of that refuse without
written authorization of the Board of Trustees is declared to be a public
nuisance, and the same shall be abated by due legal process in a court of law.
(Ord. 463, passed 12-21-70) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a punishable offense and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined in a sum of not more than $10. Each unauthorized collection from any
resident, citizen, or business establishment of the town, and each attempted
solicitation to collect such refuse for pay shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 463, passed 12-21-70)
CHAPTER 96: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
96.01   Scope
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Prohibited noise and duty to prevent such noise
   
96.04   Loud and unnecessary noise prohibited
   
96.05   Violation connected with operating certain sound machines
   
96.06   Further restriction in the operation of sound machines or motor
vehicles when in public places or thoroughfares
   
96.07   Certain prohibited noises peculiar to motor vehicles
   
96.08   Exemptions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to the control of all noise within the town of
Monroeville.
(Ord. 570, passed - - )
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Any vehicle powered by a mechanical engine, and designed to
be driven or used on any public or private property. Such definition shall
include, but not be limited to, automobiles, vans, trucks, motorcycles, motor
scooters, dune buggies, snowmobiles, all- terrain vehicles, go-carts,
minibikes, and trail bikes.
   “PERSON.” Any individual, association, partnership or corporation which
includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality.
(Ord. 570, passed - - )
§ 96.03 PROHIBITED NOISE AND DUTY TO PREVENT SUCH NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall create a noise that violates §§
96.04,
96.05,
96.06, or
96.07 unless such noise is specifically exempt from this chapter under §
96.06.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each owner, occupant, manager, agent or
operator of any property, structure, motor vehicle, and business in the town to
take reasonable steps to prevent such noise and to prevent persons using
property under their control from violating this chapter.
   (C)   The enumeration of particular noises as offenses shall not be deemed
to be exclusive, nor as limiting the general application of this chapter.
(Ord. 570, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to make any reasonably
preventable, unnecessary loud, raucous, and/or offensive noise which disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others
within the town, or to permit or promote such noise to be made in or about his/
her house or premises, and the same is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 570, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 VIOLATION CONNECTED WITH OPERATING CERTAIN SOUND MACHINES.
   The following acts, uses or noises are declared to be nuisance noises in
violation of this chapter when reasonably preventable:
   (A)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated, any
machine or device for the producing, reproducing, or amplification of sound in
such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing for the person who is in the vehicle or property in which such machine
or device is operated.
   (B)   Using, operating or permitting the use or operation of any machine,
instrument or device that produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound which is
cast upon properties other than that owned or legally occupied by the person
using, operating, or permitting the use, including the public right-of-way for
the purposes of commercial advertising or to attract attention to any activity,
performance, sale, place or structure.
   (C)   Using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any
machine or device for the producing, reproducing or amplification of sound on
any public right-of-way adjacent to any school, institution of higher learning,
church or court while the same is in session, or adjacent to any nursing home
in a manner which unreasonably interferes with the working of such institution
or which unduly disturbs patients in the nursing home.
(Ord. 570, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 FURTHER RESTRICTION IN THE OPERATION OF SOUND MACHINES OR MOTOR
VEHICLES WHEN IN PUBLIC PLACES OR THOROUGHFARES.
   Even though not otherwise prohibited by this chapter, unless operated in
compliance with subsections A and B, no person shall play, use, operate or
permit to be played, used or operated, any machine or device for the producing,
reproducing or amplification of sound, if it is located in or on any of the
following:
   (A)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way, highway,
building, sidewalk, park or thoroughfare, if the sound generated is audible at
a distance of 30 feet from its source;
   (B)   Any motor vehicle on a public right-of-way, highway, or public space
if the sound generated is audible at a distance of 30 feet from the motor
vehicle.
(Ord. 570, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 CERTAIN PROHIBITED NOISES PECULIAR TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The following acts associated with motor vehicles in violation of this
chapter are declared to be a public nuisance:
   (A)   The continuous or repeated sounding of any horn or noise device of a
motor vehicle when not necessary as a danger signal. “Continuous” shall be
defined to include unnecessary or unreasonable periods of time.
   (B)   The use of any appurtenances in a motor vehicle which create
unnecessary loud noise or grating, grinding, or rattling noise not necessary to
the operation of the motor vehicle.
   (C)   The use of any motor vehicle with or without the attachment of various
appurtenances thereto which creates loud noise or unnecessary grating,
grinding, or rattling. This shall include the use of any vehicle which causes
excessive noise as a result of a defective or modified exhaust system, or as a
result of unnecessary rapid acceleration, deceleration, revving the engine, or
tire squeal.
(Ord. 570, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   Ordinary and customary noises accompanying the following activities shall be
exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency, police or fire
department vehicles.
   (B)   Operation of lawn mowers, garden tractors, yard trimming devices, and
home power tools and equipment when properly muffled, between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   (C)   Burglar alarms or other warning devices when properly installed on
publicly or privately owned property, provided any setting off of such alarm or
warning device is not intentional (unless for testing purposes) and is
investigated and turned off within a reasonable period of time.
   (D)   Celebrations on Halloween, Independence Day, and other legal holidays.
   (E)   Permitted parades or festivals, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:
00 midnight, Sunday through Thursday; and between 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m.
Friday through Saturday.
   (F)   Noise connected with athletic and sporting events, concerts, and
practices related to them.
   (G)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency work.
   (H)   Conduct of a legally established and located non-transient business
when such sounds are not unreasonably louder than the ordinary and customary
noises accompanying such business.
   (I)   In the case of motor vehicles, where the noise, otherwise in violation
of this chapter, is the result of a defective exhaust system, if the cause is
repaired or otherwise remedied within seven calendar days of the date the
excessive noise first occurred.
   (J)   Political speech and sound and other speech that is protected under
the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and/or Article 1,
Section 9 of the Indiana Constitution.
   (K)   Carillons or church or school bells when the bells are used to
announce services or used to serve other institutional purposes.
      (1)   Auctions of property as long as such auctions do not exceed one
day’s duration.
   (M)   Officially authorized motor vehicle events such as demolition derbies
and tractor pulls, as long as they are conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 12:00 midnight.
(Ord. 570, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $150 nor more than $500 for each offense. For
continuous noises, each day such noise continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 570, passed - - )
CHAPTER 97: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
97.01   Establishment of park; administration
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Park conduct
   
97.04   Use of pavilion
   
97.05   Use of athletic fields, courts
   
97.06   Commercial activities restricted
   
97.07   Open fires
   
97.08   Ice skating
   
97.09   Motor vehicles, vehicles and golf carts
   
97.10   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
97.11   Possession, sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in the town
park
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF PARK; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   There is established a public park to be known as the Monroeville
Community Park.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall by ordinance make such rules and
regulations with regard to the improvement, preservation, ornamentation, and
management of the park, as the Board of Trustees may deem reasonable and
proper.
(Ord. 476, passed 5-1-74)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including but not
limited to: automobiles, self-propelled recreational vehicles, trucks, motor
bicycles, mini bicycles, snowmobiles, and motorcycles.
   “PARK.”
      (1)   The Monroeville Community Park.
      (2)   The standing of a vehicle or motor vehicle, whether occupied or
not, other than temporarily for the purpose of or while actually engaged in
loading or unloading.
   “VEHICLE.” Every device in, upon, and by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn by a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 480, passed 10-16-74)
§ 97.03 PARK CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Swim, bathe, wash in the park pond or cause any personal property or
animal to be washed or immersed in the park pond.
   (B)   Throw, suffer, or permit the throwing or depositing of any manure,
rubbish, slops, tin cans, old junk, putrid or unsound animal or vegetable
matter, or any filthy, noisome or unwholesome liquid or slop, garbage, food,
bottles, paper waste, or foreign object on the ground of the park, or in the
pond of the park.
   (C)   Cut, break, trim, remove, damage any tree, flower, shrub, grass, or
growing thing in the park.
   (D)   Deface, damage, break, burn, strike, or remove from the park any
improvement located in the park, including but not limited to buildings,
fences, signs, lights, light poles, or any movable personal property owned by
the town and placed in or found in the park.
   (E)   Bring any firearms, bows and arrows, pellet guns, B-B guns, air-
powered or gas-powered instruments which discharge a pellet or object,
slingshots, peashooters, into or upon the park.
   (F)   Operate a bicycle anywhere other than over and along Park Drive, the
designated parking areas, and bicycle paths.
   (G)   Ride or lead a horse or pony over and along the park, except over and
along the designated bridle paths.
(Ord. 480, passed 10-16-74) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 USE OF PAVILION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or utilize the park pavilion or
the arena in the park for a public gathering, without having made written
application stating the date and time on form provided, and tendering therewith
the fee, as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Trustees, to
the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 480, passed 10-16-74) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 USE OF ATHLETIC FIELDS, COURTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or utilize the playground, ball
diamond, tennis courts, or basketball courts in the park for organized team
play, without having made written application stating the date and time, on
form provided, and tendering therewith the fee, as may from time to time be
determined by the Board of Trustees, to the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 480, passed 10-16-74) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to charge admission or to sell or offer
to sell any goods, foods, beverages, merchandise, services, or anything of
value in the park, without receiving the prior written consent of the Clerk-
Treasurer, which consent shall be granted upon such terms and conditions as the
Clerk-Treasurer may determine.
(Ord. 480, passed 10-16-74) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07 OPEN FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or maintain any open fire,
except in fireplaces, charcoal grills, or ovens in the park.
(Ord. 480, passed 10-16-74) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08 ICE SKATING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ice skate upon the park pond when a
red flag is displayed, or red light is burning, which indicates that the ice is
unsafe.
(Ord. 480, passed 10-16-74) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09 MOTOR VEHICLES, VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle or vehicle at any point
along Park Drive or in any other location in the park, except in designated
parking areas.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle or vehicle in the park
after 11:00 p.m. (local time) through 7:00 a.m. (local time), except during an
authorized event taking place at the park and then only in designated parking
areas.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle or vehicle at any
point along Park Drive or in any other location in the park, except as follows:
      (1)   In entering and exiting designated parking areas;
      (2)   Over and along Park Drive;
      (3)   From the designated parking areas to the canteen; and
      (4)   When participating in a contest or special event approved in
writing by the Board of Trustees for the park or the Town Council.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart in any location in the
park, except as may be approved in writing by the Town Council for special
events.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle or golf cart over and
along Park Drive in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (F)   The permit of any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any
provision of this section may be immediately revoked by the Town Board or its
designees.
(Ord. 480, passed 10-16-74; Am. Ord. 665, passed 8-4-21) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.10 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Under the provisions of IC 36-10-3, there is hereby created a
municipal Department of Parks and Recreation.
   (B)   A Park and Recreation Board shall be created composed of four members
appointed by the Board of Trustees of the town (Town Board) on the basis of
their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation. No more than two
members shall be of the same political party.
   (C)   (1)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of the members
initially appointed shall be:
         (a)   One member for a term until the first Monday in January, 1988;
         (b)   One member for a term until the first Monday in January, 1989;
         (c)   One member for a term until the first Monday in January, 1990;
and
         (d)   One member for a term until the first Monday in January, 1991.
      (2)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the Town
Board for a term of four years. All terms expire on the first Monday in
January, but a member shall continue in office until his successor is
appointed. If an appointment for a new term is not made by the Town Board by
the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy
occurs, the Town Board shall appoint a new member for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (D)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a
President and Vice-President. The Vice-President shall have authority to act as
the President of the Board during the absence or disability of the President.
The Board may select a Secretary either from within or without its own
membership.
   (E)   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to
acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are
generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the
Board shall have all the powers and duties listed in IC 36-10-3.
   (F)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner
as other departments of town government as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations, and subsides for park and
recreational purposes.
(Ord. 547, passed 11-16-88; Am. Ord. 574, passed 8-16-94)
§ 97.11 POSSESSION, SALE AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN THE TOWN
PARK.
   (A)   No intoxicants of any kind, including wine, beer, ale, or other
alcoholic beverages, shall be brought into a park area, consumed, sold or given
away on the premise of any public park, parkway or boulevard strip, except
with:
      (1)   Prior written approval from the town council after public hearing;
and
      (2)   A prior written permit to do so having been received from the
Department and the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission.
   (B)   If a person asks a Town Council to approve the issuance of a temporary
beer or wine permit, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the Indiana Alcohol
and Tobacco Commission of the Town Council's decision to approve or disapprove
the permit not later than 30 days after the person's request for approval.
   (C)   The Town Board shall have the authority to develop and implement
policies controlling the possession and use of alcoholic beverages in the
locations enumerated herein.
   (D)   All permits, including those granted by the Alcohol and Tobacco
Commission, shall be prominently displayed and produced for inspection when
requested by a police officer or a park or town employee or representative and
shall not be transferable.
   (E)   No permit granted under this section shall be construed to entitle any
person to possess, serve, sell, consume or give away alcoholic beverages in any
place other than the area specifically designated in said permit. Furthermore,
no permit granted under this section shall be construed to allow any individual
to act in any fashion that would violate any other law, statute, ordinance,
rule or regulation.
   (F)   The permit of any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any
provision of this section may be immediately revoked by the Town Board or its
designees.
(Ord. 649, passed 10-3-18)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating or failing to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $150.
(Ord. 480, passed 10-16-74; Am. Ord. 665, passed 8-4-21)
CHAPTER 98: JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Junk motor vehicles declared a nuisance; exception
   
98.03   Order to remove
   
98.04   Removal by town
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE." Any motor vehicle, snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle,
golf cart, dirt bike, go kart, or parts of any motor vehicle which is not in a
garage or other building and:
      (1)   Does not bear a currently valid and legal registration; or
      (2)   Is not operable; or
      (3)   Is in such a deteriorated condition that it poses a threat to the
public health or safety.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 98.02 JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES DECLARED A NUISANCE; EXCEPTION.
   Because of the danger to health caused by vermin, rodents, and insects and
to the safety of children attracted by junk motor vehicles, junk motor vehicles
are declared to be nuisances except if located in lawfully operated junk yards,
lawfully operated scrap yards, or yards lawfully operated for vehicles awaiting
permission for junking from the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 98.03 ORDER TO REMOVE.
   (A)   The town police officer may order any junk motor vehicle removed from
any premises in the town within 48 hours after service or posting of notice as
hereinafter provided or in lieu of such notice, may immediately issue a
citation against the owner of the junk motor vehicle, the owner of the real
estate, and/or the occupant of the real estate if the occupant of the real
estate can exercise control over the junk motor vehicle. However, in the case
of a bona fide emergency, the above named officials may cause the junk motor
vehicle to be removed immediately.
   (B)   The order to remove the junk motor vehicle shall be placed upon the
junk motor vehicle, and copies thereof can be served upon any owner and/or
occupant of the real estate on which the junk motor vehicle is located, and
upon the owner of the junk motor vehicle, if known. If no owner, or occupant of
the real estate or owner of the junk motor vehicle can be found, a copy thereof
may be affixed to any building on the real estate, and shall constitute notice
to the owner and occupant of the real estate and to the owner of the junk motor
vehicle. If there is no building on the real estate, the order may be affixed
elsewhere on the real estate.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 98.04 REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   If, in the event, the town police officer issued a 48-hour notice as
provided in § 98.03 and the junk motor vehicle is not removed within such time,
the town police officer may remove or cause the motor vehicle to be removed and
to be disposed of in the same manner as now provided by the laws of the state
for the removal and disposal of abandoned vehicles. Such removal shall be at
the expense of the owner of the real estate, owner of the junk motor vehicle
and/or the occupant of the real estate, which expense, if unpaid, shall
constitute a lien on the real estate.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   If any such order to remove a junk motor vehicle as provided in this chapter
has been so served and is not obeyed within the time stated, or if the town
police officer has issued a citation, the owner of the junk motor vehicle, the
occupant and/or owner of the real estate upon which it is located shall each be
guilty of violation of this chapter and upon conviction shall be subject to a
fine in an amount of $100. Each day the junk motor vehicle is permitted to
remain on the real estate after the time fixed in the order to remove it or
after the citation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-7-23)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   AUCTIONEERS, PEDDLERS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
   
111.   FAIR HOUSING
 CHAPTER 110: AUCTIONEERS, PEDDLERS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Application; fee
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any auction establishment, transient salesmen,
merchant, peddlers, hucksters, and itinerant vendors of goods, wares, and
merchandise of whatever nature, whether denominated bankrupt stocks, fire
sales, assignees' sales, or by any other term used for the purpose of
attracting trade, whether by the owner or by agents, hereinafter called person,
to barter, sell, or offer for sale, any goods, wares, and merchandise of any
nature, in, upon, or along any street, or in temporary quarters, or in going
from house to house, including business houses, taking orders for any article
herein named for future delivery within the town without first obtaining a
license from the Clerk-Treasurer to do so. This does not apply to salesmen
selling wholesale to permanent retail dealers or sales handled in interstate
commerce, on which orders are taken for future delivery.
(Ord. 509, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Upon written application, duly verified under oath, setting forth that
the applicant has produced such license and may be required by Allen County,
Indiana, and by the laws of the state then in force, the Clerk-Treasurer may
issue to the applicant a license permitting the applicant for a period for
which it is paid for, to sell such goods, wares, or merchandise as such
applicant may lawfully sell.
   (B)   The license fee shall be $2 per day or fraction thereof and shall be
paid in cash prior to the issuance of the license.
(Ord. 509, passed - - )
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Each person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined a sum
not exceeding $10 and each day shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 509, passed - - )
CHAPTER 111: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
111.01   Policy statement
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Unlawful practice
   
111.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
111.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
111.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
111.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
111.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
111.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
111.10   Exemptions
   
111.11     Administrative enforcement of chapter
   
111.12     Severability of provisions
§ 111.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and IC 22-9.5-1 et. seq.
(Ord. 582, passed 3-19-96; Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter.
   "AGGRIEVED PERSON." Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(IC 22-9.5-2-2)
   "COMMISSION." The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to IC 22-
9-1-4, et. seq.
(IC 22-9.5-2-3)
   "COMPLAINANT." A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint
under IC 22-9.5-6.
(IC 22-9.5-2-4)
   "DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE." An act that is unlawful under Sections §§
111.04  through
111.08  or IC 22-9.5-5.
   "DWELLING." Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(IC 22-9.5-2-8)
   "FAMILIAL STATUS." One or more individuals who have not attained the age of
18 years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   "FAMILY." Includes a single individual (IC 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in "FAMILIAL STATUS".
   "HANDICAP."
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities.
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   "HANDICAP" shall not include current illegal use of or addictions
to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of the United
States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term "HANDICAP" include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   "PERSON." Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   "TO RENT." Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 582, passed 3-19-96; Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
§ 111.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
111.09, and IC 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in IC 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
111.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and IC 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
111.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
111.04(C) of this chapter, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 582, passed 3-19-96; Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
§ 111.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
111.03 and except as exempted by §
111.03(B) and §
111.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   Rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that;
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1") suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (H)(3)(c)3.
   (J)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 582, passed 3-19-96; Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
§ 111.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 582, passed 3-19-96; Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
§ 111.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 582, passed 3-19-96; Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
§ 111.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
111.03,
111.04,
111.05 or
111.06.
(Ord. 582, passed 3-19-96; Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
§ 111.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 582, passed 3-19-96; Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
§ 111.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of
"family" is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
§ 111.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under IC 22-9.5-3 et. seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, "HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS" means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program) or;
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 582, passed 3-19-96; Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
§ 111.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of IC 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because of
lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer enforcement
proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein elects to
refer all formal complaints of violation of the section of this chapter by
complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to IC 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Official of
the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) of this section to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under IC 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town, or the Chief Elected
Official's designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 582, passed 3-19-96; Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
§ 111.12 SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of the chapter
and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly situated
or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Am. Ord. 663, passed - -21)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130. GENERAL OFFENSES
   
131. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
   
132. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
   
133. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Failure to close cellar doors, gratings
   
130.02   Barbed wire fences prohibited
   
130.03   Unauthorized signs and banners
   
130.04   Tampering with authorized advertisements prohibited
   
130.05   Fraud; deception by trick
   
130.06   Definition of smoking
   
130.07   Smoking prohibited in buildings owned by the town
   
130.08   Curfew
   
130.09   Illegal substances prohibited on town premises
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 FAILURE TO CLOSE CELLAR DOORS, GRATINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or leave open any cellar door or
grating, or grating of any vault on any street or sidewalk, or suffer the same
to be left or kept open.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 BARBED WIRE FENCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any fence
separating lots or real estate from any sidewalk, street, or alley, any part of
which is made from barbed wire.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND BANNERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to put up or maintain, or suffer to be put up or
maintained, any sign, banner, streamer, or other device for advertising or
other purpose, by suspending it across any street or alley within the town,
without permission.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to put or maintain any sign which
shall project over any sidewalk in the town, or the lowest part of which shall
be less than ten feet above the ground.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
 Cross-reference:
   Posting notices; distributing handbills, see §
92.06
§ 130.04 TAMPERING WITH AUTHORIZED ADVERTISEMENTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pull down, deface, or destroy any
written or printed notice, advertisement, or bill posted up at any place in the
town, which notice, advertisement, or bill has been so posted by permission of
the owner or persons having control of the place whereon such posting is made.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 FRAUD; DECEPTION BY TRICK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town, by the practice of any
trick, game, or device whatever, or by means of any false or fraudulent token,
representation, writing or any false pretense, to defraud or obtain from
another, any money or thing of value.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 DEFINITION OF SMOKING.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "SMOKING." The carrying or holding of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or
any other lighted smoking equipment, or the inhalation or exhalation of smoke
from a cigarette, cigar, pipe, or any other smoking equipment. "Smoking" does
not include the burning of incense.
(Ord. 615, passed 4-3-07)
§ 130.07 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN BUILDINGS OWNED BY THE TOWN.
   Smoking is hereby prohibited in all buildings owned by the town located
within the limits of the town.
(Ord. 615, passed 4-3-07)
§ 130.08 CURFEW.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated this section; and
      (2)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this section, where no other penalty
is otherwise provided upon conviction thereof, shall be adjudged to pay a find
of not more than $50 plus costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 645, passed 11-2-16)
§ 130.09 ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED ON TOWN PREMISES.
   (A)   (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C.
8120 and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C. F. R. 1308.11-1308.15) and
prescription controlled substance which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this chapter.
      (2)   This chapter prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on town premises (including vehicles
used for town business). These include but are not limited to marijuana,
cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (B)   (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on town premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off town premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for town business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on town
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for town business is never
authorized.
   (C)   Employees must as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this chapter and report any conviction to the town under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off town premises when conducting Town
business. Report of a conviction must be made to the town within five business
days after the conviction. The town will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
      (1)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this chapter. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the town will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee's actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the town's reputation and image.
      (2)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk Treasurer.
   (D)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual's responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the town will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (1)   Employees with a personal alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (2)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this chapter or any other town policies or job requirements.
      (3)   Any employee identified through a town investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (4)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline.)
   (E)   The town will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or drug
tests.
      (1)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse.
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
town.
         (c)   When required by law.
      (2)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
town. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (3)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the town. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding re-application opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 662, passed - -21)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of up to $25 for a first violation, $100 for a second violation, and $250
for each additional violation.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ; Ord. 422, passed - -; Am. Ord. 615, passed 4-3-07)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Trespassing
   
131.02   njuring lawns, gardens
   
131.03   Vandalism
§ 131.01 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter the lot or premises of another
without having the consent of the person in possession of that lot or premises,
unless such entry be made for legitimate business purposes.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 INJURING LAWNS, GARDENS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon or injure, or cause to be
injured, any grass plat or lawn, flower bed or garden, upon the lot or premises
of another, whether the lot or premises be enclosed or unenclosed.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.03 VANDALISM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or heedlessly cast or throw
any stone, brick, or other missile from or into any street or other public
place or at, against, or into any building, shade tree, or other property; or
to climb upon or walk upon the top or capping of any fence or railing, or into
any shade or ornamental tree upon any public street or place, or to in anywise
injure or deface any building, fence, gate, or shade tree, or to meddle with or
injure any well, cistern, hydrant, or pump within the town.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
132.01   Indecent performances prohibited
§ 132.01 INDECENT PERFORMANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any indecent, immoral, or
lewd play or representation within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
133.01   Loitering
   
133.02   Vagrancy
   
133.03   False alarms
   
133.04   Disturbing the peace
   
133.05   Discharge of firearms, explosives
§ 133.01 LOITERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons in the town to loiter
or congregate about or upon any stairway, doorway, window, or in front of any
business or dwelling house, theater, lecture room, church, street, street
corner, or elsewhere, and by so doing obstruct or interfere with the free
passage of persons entering or occupying such building or premises, or by their
language, conversation, or conduct to insult or disturb persons passing along
the streets or alleys or occupying, residing, or doing business in any of those
houses or places.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to idle or loiter in any public
place, park, shed, car, carshop, outhouse, street, alley, railroad depot,
switchhouse, or place where intoxicating liquors are sold within the town.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 VAGRANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the limits of the town, to
wander in the public streets, or in any place of public resort, to beg or
gather alms, or cause or procure or encourage any child or children to do so.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be found lying or sleeping in,
along, or upon any public street, alley, park or other place, or in any shed,
stable, outhouse, building, warehouse, railroad depot, or railroad car, in or
about any yard, mill, or manufactory in the town, without having the permission
of the owner or the occupant thereof to so sleep or be in such place.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully to give or make a false alarm
of fire or watch, or to employ any bellman or use or cause to be used any bell,
horn, bugle, or other sounding instrument, or to employ any device, noise or
performance, tending in either case to the collecting of persons on the
streets, sidewalks or other public places to the obstruction of the same, or
for any purpose whatever.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 113.04 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any noise, disorder, or tumult
to the disturbance of the peace, and quietude of the town, or to the annoyance
of any of its inhabitants, or to permit such noise, disorder, or turmoil to be
made in or about his house or premises.
(Ord. 418, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.05 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS, EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any common gun, air
rifle, pistol, fouling piece, pistol or firearms of any description, or to
fire, or explode, or set off any squib, cracker, or any other thing containing
powder or other combustible or explosive material, without written permission
from the Board of Trustees, which permission shall limit the time of firing,
and shall be subject to be revoked by the Board at any time after it has been
granted.
(Ord. 422, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150. BUILDINGS
   
151. PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
   
150.01   Enforcement agent
Enforcement of Building Standards
   
150.20   Statutes adopted by reference
   
150.21   Enforcement authority
   
150.22   Hearing authority
   
150.23   Unsafe Buildings Fund
   
150.24   Amendments
§ 150.01 ENFORCEMENT AGENT.
   (A)   The town hereby designates the Allen County Indiana Building
Department as the town's agent to enforce on behalf of the town, pursuant to
the provisions of IC 36-7-8-7, the county ordinances adopted under the
provisions of IC 36-7-8-3, and the standards imposed by IC 22-15-2-7.
   (B)   The Allen County Building Department shall retain the fees collected
by it pursuant to such county ordinance as its compensation for acting as such
agent.
(Ord. 542, passed 2-17-88)
ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING STANDARDS
§ 150.20 STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All of the provisions of IC 36-7-9 are hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference, including the definitions of "SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST" as
defined in IC 36-7-9-2; all of the provisions of that statute shall be in full
force and effect in the town as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 522, passed 4-2-85)
§ 150.21 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Town Marshal is designated and appointed as enforcement authority,
responsible for administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 522, passed 4-2-85)
§ 150.22 HEARING AUTHORITY.
   The President of the Town Board of Trustees is appointed and designated the
hearing authority and is empowered to take all actions authorized under IC 36-
7-9.
§ 150.23 UNSAFE BUILDINGS FUND.
   There is established in the operating budget of the Town Marshal an Unsafe
Buildings Fund as required by the provisions of IC 36-7-9-14.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is directed to allocate such monies to the unsafe
building fund as will allow it to accomplish its purposes as required in IC 36-
7-9-14 and as otherwise required in IC 36-7-9 subject to approval of the amount
allocated by this Board.
(Ord. 522, passed 4-2-85)
§ 150.24 AMENDMENTS.
   If IC 36-7-9, or any of the sections or provisions thereof are in any way
amended, this chapter shall be deemed amended to comply with the amendments to
the Indiana Code without further action taken by the Town Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 522, passed 4-2-85)
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Designation of County Plan Commission
   
151.02   Designation of County Board of Zoning Appeals
   
151.03   Designation of County Zoning Administrator
   
151.04   Adoption of county master plan; enforcement
Economic Revitalization Area Designation
   
151.15     Application procedures
   
151.16     Community benefit review
   
151.17     Compliance with statement of benefits (CF-1) annual review
   
151.18     Waivers of noncompliance
   
151.19     Delegation of responsibility
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DESIGNATION OF COUNTY PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Allen County Plan Commission is designated as the Plan Commission
of the town pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of IC 36-7-4-410
of the Acts of the Indiana General Assembly for the year 1947 as amended or
supplemental thereto.
   (B)   The County Plan Commission so designated as the Plan Commission for
the town by this section shall have all of the powers and duties granted to a
plan commission of a town including the Town of Monroeville, pursuant to and as
provided by IC 36-7-4.
   (C)   The town, by its duly elected, qualified, and acting Board of
Trustees, does by this section ratify, confirm, and approve all acts of the
County Plan Commission, in regard to the performance of its statutory duties
and functions pursuant to and in accordance with the Acts of the General
Assembly as the same may now apply to the town or as the same may apply to the
town in the future.
(Ord. 457, passed 4-7-69)
§ 151.02 DESIGNATION OF COUNTY BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   The Allen County Board of Zoning Appeals is designated as the Board of
Zoning Appeals of the town.
   (B)   The town, by its duly elected, qualified and acting Board of Trustees
does by this section ratify, confirm, and approve all acts of the County Board
of Zoning Appeals in regard to the performance of its statutory duties and
functions pursuant to and in accordance with the Acts of the General Assembly
as the same may now apply to the town or as the same may apply to the town in
the future.
(Ord. 457, passed 4-7-69)
§ 151.03 DESIGNATION OF COUNTY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Allen County Zoning Administrator is designated as the Zoning
Administrator of the town.
   (B)   The town, by its duly elected, qualified, and acting Board of Trustees
does by this section ratify, confirm, and approve all acts of the County Zoning
Administrator in regard to the performance of his statutory duties and
functions pursuant to and in accordance with the Acts of the General Assembly
as the same may now apply to the town or as the same may apply to the town in
the future.
(Ord. 457, passed 4-7-69)
§ 151.04 ADOPTION OF COUNTY MASTER PLAN; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The master plan prepared by the Allen County Plan Commission for the
town and certified to the Board of Trustees by the Secretary of the County Plan
Commission is incorporated herein by reference and made part hereof as if
copied verbatim herein, and the master plan is accepted as the master plan of
the town, and the same is so ratified, confirmed, and approved in its entirety.
   (B)   The County Zoning Administrator, the County Plan Commission, being the
Plan Commission of the town, the town, or any aggrieved or damaged property
owner, collectively or individually, may institute a suit for injunction in the
Circuit Court or any Superior Court of Allen County to restrain any person or
governmental unit from violating any provisions of the master plan for the town
and cause such violation to be prevented, abated, or removed, which shall not
be exclusive but in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 460, passed 4-20-70; Am. Ord. 553, passed 9- -90)
ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREA DESIGNATION
§ 151.15 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   The Council, in accordance with IC 6-1.1-12.1 et. seq. shall make available
the opportunity to receive real estate and personal property tax abatement to
qualifying companies located within the town.
   (A)   The economic development division staff of the Allen County Department
of Planning Services shall provide a formal application and statement of
benefits (SB-1) form(s) to interested parties.
      (1)   The owner(s) of property located within the jurisdiction of the
Council shall initiate the process by filing a completed and signed application
and statement of benefits (SB-1) form(s) with economic development staff.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by the established filing fee.
         (a) Five hundred dollars ($500) for real or personal property
deduction.
         (b)   Seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750) for both real and
personal property deduction.
         (c)   Five hundred dollars ($500) for vacant building deduction only.
      (3)   Upon receipt of an application, the economic development staff
shall:
         (a)   Note the date of filing on the application.
         (b)   1.   Review it for completeness.
            2.   Acceptable applications shall be submitted to the Council for
formal consideration at their next available meeting.
         (c)   Provide the Council with appropriate maps necessary to identify
the area for which the applicant requests economic revitalization area
designation along with a simplified description of its boundaries.
         (d)   Provide the applicant written notice when the Council will
formally consider the application. The applicant or its representative shall be
present at the Council meeting at which the application and statement of
benefits form(s) is/are considered.
      (4)   After review of the information provided in the application, by the
staff, the applicant and other interested persons, the Council may:
         (a)   Find that the real estate under consideration meets the
definition and standards of an economic revitalization area, as set forth in IC
6-1.1-12.1-1(1) and §
151.16. In such instances, the Council may adopt a declaratory resolution
stating same and cause the action set forth in division (A)(5) herein to occur.
Said declaratory resolution shall include the reasons upon which the
determination is made.
         (b)   Find that there is insufficient information and defer action on
the matter. The applicant shall be provided written notice of the reasons for
deferral within ten days of that action.
         (c)   Determine that the real estate should not be designated as an
economic revitalization area and provide the applicant written notice thereof.
      (5)   Upon adoption of a declaratory resolution, the Council shall:
         (a)   Set the date, time, and location for a public hearing at which
the Council will receive and hear all comments from interested persons;
         (b)   Cause notice of the adoption and substance of the declaratory
resolution to be published in accordance with IC 6-1.1-12.l-2.5(c) and IC 5-3-
1. The notice shall state that a description of the affected area is available
and can be inspected in the offices of the Allen County Department of Planning
Services, the County Assessor, and the Town Hall. The notice shall also state
the time, date, and location of the subsequent public hearing on the matter;
         (c)   Cause a generalized description of the subject real estate to be
attached to the declaratory resolution and file same with the County Assessor
and the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (6)   Upon considering the evidence presented at the public hearing, the
Council shall take final action on the request for designation by either
confirming, modifying and confirming, or rescinding the subject declaratory
resolution. The applicant(s) or its representative shall be present at the
public hearing to provide such information as may be needed.
      (7)   The determination of the confirmatory resolution made pursuant to
division (A)(6) herein shall be final except that an appeal may be taken as
provided in IC 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(d) and IC 6-1.1-12.l-2.5(e).
      (8)   Upon confirming, or modifying and confirming, a declaratory
resolution by the procedures set forth herein, the County Auditor and the
economic development division shall keep a permanent record of the designation
of the subject economic revitalization area. The economic development division
staff shall also provide the Auditor with a final designation packet to be
utilized in the review of applications for deduction pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-
5 and IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.4.
   (B)   Applications will be evaluated and the information provided within
will be applied toward the point system to determine the recommended length of
the abatement. Abatements can be granted for a period of three, five, seven or
ten years for both real and personal property.
   (C)   For applications that include personal property, the applicant shall
provide the expected life of each asset (piece of equipment) for depreciation
purposes. The abatement period for personal property may be limited to a term
that is less than the depreciable life of the asset.
   (D)   For applications that include manufacturing equipment, the applicant
shall indicate whether special tools (as defined by Indiana Administrative Code
Title 50 Department of Local Government Finance, Article 4.2 Assessment of
Tangible Personal Property) are included in the new manufacturing equipment.
Special tooling may be limited to a one-year abatement term.
   (E)   For applicants indicating that there is a retail component to their
business, they must also indicate, by percentage of overall business, to what
extent.
      (1)   Anything less than 10% shall be considered a de minimus amount
while any amount above 50% will make the project ineligible for abatement.
      (2)   For retail percentages between 10% and 50%, only the non-retail
percentage of the total investment shall be included in the abatement deduction
amount.
   (F)   For applicants that are service-based businesses the following
criteria must be met to be eligible for abatement:
      (1)   More than 25% of the customer base for the service-based business
is located outside of Allen County, Indiana or more than 25% of the annual
gross revenue of the service-based business is generated by customers located
outside of Allen County; or
      (2)   (a)   The amount of the investment for which the abatement is being
sought by the applicant is $5,000,000 or more.
         (b)   Under division (F), a service-based business is a commercial
enterprise that derives more than 50% of its annual gross revenue directly from
labor performed in an expert manner by an individual or team for the benefit of
its customers/clients as opposed to the sale of tangible goods and/or products.
The definition includes, without limitation, businesses such as law firms,
accounting firms, consulting films, financial services films, insurance
agencies, marketing/advertising agencies, and medical and dental practices. The
definition does not include retail establishments, the eligibility of which is
determined under IC 6-1.1-12.1-3(e).
   (G)   Applicants for projects involving the redevelopment or rehabilitation
of a speculative building may receive a ten-year phased deduction without
adhering to the county's point system. For purposes of this section, a
speculative building is a building development, construction, or rehabilitation
of at least 50,000 square feet that is reasonably likely to create new jobs
when the developer has no formal commitment from a buyer or tenant to purchase
or lease the end product, whether the end product is a fully completed, move-in
ready building or a partially completed shell suitable for build-out
improvements by the future owner or tenant. Additional incentives for the final
build out and personal property (equipment) may be considered upon the
identification of the end user. Any additional incentives will adhere to the
county's point system for real and personal property abatement at the time of
submittal.
   (H)   (1)   The owner of an eligible vacant building, as defined in IC 6-
1.1-12.1-1(17), is entitled to a deduction from the assessed value of the
building if the property owner or tenant of the property owner occupies the
eligible vacant building and uses it for commercial or industrial purposes:
      (2)   Property owner is entitled to the deduction for no more than two
years with the deduction schedule as follows:
 
Year 1 100% deduction
Year 2 50% deduction
 
   (I)   The criteria for a 20-year personal property deduction are as follows:
      (1)   The company will create at least 1,000 new jobs within two years of
submitting its application.
      (2)   The company will invest at least $500,000,000 in eligible personal
property.
      (3)   The amount of income taxes generated by the new jobs will be equal
to or exceed the value of the deduction after year ten years.
      (4)   Per IC 6-1.l-12.1-18(e), Council will hold a public hearing for any
abatement schedule that exceeds ten years to review the taxpayer's compliance
with statement of benefits form (CF-1) after the tenth year.
      (5)   The deduction schedule for a 20-year deduction is as follows:
 
Year 1  100%
Year 2  95%
Year 3  90%
Year 4  85%
Year 5  80%
Year 6  75%
Year 7  70%
Year 8  65%
Year 9  60%
Year 10 55%
Year 11 50%
Year 12 45%
Year 13 40%
Year 14 35%
Year 15 30%
Year 16 25%
Year 17 20%
Year 18 15%
Year 19 10%
Year 20 5%
(Ord. 668, passed 6-1-22)
§ 151.16 COMMUNITY BENEFIT REVIEW.
   The Council shall consider all findings of fact pertaining to an application
for tax abatement.
   (A)   The Council, in its deliberations, may, pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-2,
give consideration to the following general standards to determine if:
      (1)   The proposed use of the real estate for which a deduction is being
sought is consistent with the land use policies contained in the Allen County
Comprehensive Plan adopted by the Council;
      (2)   The deduction will assist in the inducement of a project that will
result in the retention and/or creation of substantial employment opportunities
relative to the value of the investment;
      (3)   The deduction will encourage the use of vacant or under-utilized
land or improvement or replacement of a deteriorated or obsolete structure
designated as appropriate for industrial or commercial development;
      (4)   The deduction will encourage the improvement or replacement of
deteriorated or obsolete manufacturing equipment;
      (5)   The deduction will assist in the inducement of a project which
would provide long-term benefits to the tax base of the town and county
warranting the granting of abatement.
   (B)   In all instances, the Council shall find that evidence has been
provided either in the application or during the public hearing that the real
estate proposed for designation is either in an area "which has become
undesirable for, or impossible of, normal development and occupancy because of
a lack of development, cessation of growth, deterioration of improvements or
character of occupancy, age, obsolescence, substandard buildings, or other
factors which have impaired values or prevent a normal development of property
or use of property" or "where a facility or a group of facilities that are
technologically, economically, or energy obsolete are located and where the
obsolescence may lead to a decline in employment and tax revenues".
   (C)   The Council shall not consider an application for designation, unless
a waiver of noncompliance has been granted pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-11.3, if
prior to the filing of the application:
      (1)   An improvement location permit has been filed for the project at
the Allen County Department of Planning Services;
      (2)   A building permit for the subject rehabilitation has been filed for
the project at the Allen County Building Department; or
      (3)   Equipment for which a deduction is being sought has been installed
(as defined in Indiana Administrative Code Title 50 Department of Local
Government Finance, Article 4.2 Assessment of Tangible Personal Property).
   (D)   The Tax Abatement Development Fund shall be administered by the County
Board of Commissioners, subject to appropriation by the Allen County Council.
      (1)   Companies can voluntarily choose to contribute a portion of their
tax savings:
         (a)   Ten percent (10%);
         (b)   Five percent (5%).
      (2)   The company will be awarded two points on the county's point system
for choosing to contribute.
      (3)   Eligible uses of the fund include:
         (a)   The construction, extension or completion of sanitary sewer
lines, storm sewers, and other related drainage facilities; water lines; roads
and street; rail spurs and sidings; streetlights and/or traffic signalization
related to new construction or reconstruction of roads; and any other item
related to economic development projects the County Council deems appropriate;
         (b)   The preparation of surveys, plans and specifications for the
construction of publicly owned and operated facilities, utilities, and
services;
         (c)   Low-interest grants/loans to the small incorporated communities
in the county for the above purposes;
         (d)   Low-interest grants/loans to other county economic development
bodies e.g., Allen County Redevelopment Commission.
      (4)   Seven factors will be considered for an entity to be eligible to
receive assistance in the form of a grant or loan:
         (a)   Must be located currently in the county or will be locating in
the county;
         (b)   The amount of investment;
         (c)   The number of jobs created and/or retained;
         (d)   The level of the wages;
         (e)   Availability of funds from other sources;
         (f)   The public benefit to the health and welfare of county
residents;
         (g)   Its use as the local share to leverage state and federal grants.
      (5)   The County Council will be presented with the proposals for
potential economic development projects from the County Board of Commissioners
and they will be the entity who decides the extent of the financial assistance
for any project. Prior to either a grant or loan being awarded the fund must
have accumulated to a balance of $50,000.
      (6)   The monies not needed currently to meet current obligations shall
be invested. The interest which accrues from these investments shall be
credited to the fund.
      (7)   If the County Council determines this fund is no longer serving a
purpose, it will be left to the Council's discretion as to where the money
should be transferred, however the intent is for this money to be used to
further economic development activities.
(Ord. 668, passed 6-1-22)
§ 151.17 COMPLIANCE WITH STATEMENT OF BENEFITS (CF-1) ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The applicant shall provide economic development staff with an annual report
(compliance with statement of benefits, form CF-1) showing the extent to which
there has been compliance with the statement of benefits (SB-1) form. The CF-
1 form must be filed with the County Auditor and economic development division
staff according to the filing schedule required by IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.1 and IC 6-
1.1-12.1-5.6.
   (A)   Economic development division staff shall analyze all CF-1 forms and
compile a summary sheet and findings of fact to present to the Council from
which a determination of substantial compliance or non-compliance will be made.
   (B)   Economic development division staff shall use the following review
procedure of CF-1 forms:
      (1)   The first step in the review process compares the CF-1 form to the
statement of benefits (SB-1) form approved by Council to find whether the
project substantially complies with the SB-1. Substantial compliance shall be
defined as:
         (a)   Creating or retaining at least 75% of the total number of full-
time and/or part-time jobs delineated in the approved statement of benefits
(SB-1) form; and/or
         (b)   Creating or retaining at least 75% of the total salaries
delineated in the approved statement of benefits (SB-1) form,
Within the time frame projected in the applicant's approved statement of
benefits (SB-1) form.
      (2)   If the project is deemed not to be in substantial compliance in the
first step, the staff shall investigate further whether the property owner made
a reasonable effort to substantially comply and whether the applicant's failure
to substantially comply was caused by factors beyond their control. Staff will:
         (a)   Examine whether the investment in real estate or personal
property equals or exceeds 75% of the investment delineated in the approved
statement of benefits (SB-1) form within the projected time frame; and
         (b)   Contact the person listed as the applicant contact person on the
CF-1 form to seek an explanation as to why the project is not in substantial
compliance. The staff may request the explanation be provided in writing. If
the staff finds, based on the second step, that the applicant made a reasonable
effort to substantially comply and that the applicant's failure to
substantially comply was caused by factors beyond the control of the applicant,
the project will be considered in substantial compliance for purposes of the
CF-1 form. If the staff finds, based on the second step, that the applicant did
not make a reasonable effort substantially comply and that its failure to
substantially comply was not caused by factors beyond the applicant's control,
the project will be considered not in substantial compliance for purposed of
the CF-1 form. Staff will provide a report summarizing the staff's findings to
the Council from which the Council can make a determination as to whether the
project should or should not be deemed to be in substantial compliance.
   (C)   The Council will review the CF-1 forms using the following criteria:
      (1)   Employment.
         (a)   Number of employees retained (jobs retained).
         (b)   Number of additional employees (jobs created).
      (2)   Salaries.
         (a)   Salaries of employees retained (salaries retained).
         (b)   Salaries of additional employees (salaries created).
      (3)   Investment (values of proposed project).
         (a)   Real estate: cost of real estate improvements.
         (b)   Personal property: cost of manufacturing, research and
development, logistical distribution and information technology equipment.
   (D)   State law provides that within 45 days after an applicant files a CF-
1 form, the Council shall determine whether the applicant has substantially
complied with the statement of benefits (SB-1) form. Those forms that are found
by the staff not to be in substantial compliance will be brought to the
attention of the Council first for the Council to determine what further action
is necessary. However, since the 45 day time period only limits the Council's
ability to pursue terminating a deduction, those that are found to be in
compliance will be submitted for formal approval with a final report following
the end of the filing period.
   (E)   If an applicant fails to file a CF-1 form by the filing deadline,
fails to file a CF-1 form that provides sufficient information (as determined
by staff) to determine substantial compliance, or the circumstances are such
that the staff has information indicating that the information provided on the
CF-1 form may be inaccurate, the staff will make a reasonable effort to contact
the applicant to obtain a complete and accurate CF-1 form. If the applicant
still fails to provide a complete and accurate CF-1 form, then the staff will
bring the failure to the attention of the Council for the Council to determine
whether the project should be deemed not to be in substantial compliance. The
staff, working with the County Auditor's Office, will monitor property owners
who have receive a SB-1 approval from the Council and who are eligible to
receive a tax abatement deduction, to facilitate the timely and accurate
submission of CF-1 forms.
   (F)   The staff’s determination that the project fails to substantially
comply with a statement of benefits does not necessarily mean that the
abatement will be rescinded. If the Council, based on the information provided
by the staff, determines that a project is not in substantial compliance, the
staff will send official notification to the applicant and schedule a hearing
with the Council pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.9. The hearing will be held within
30 days after the date on which the notice is mailed.
   (G)   Based on the evidence presented at the hearing by the applicant and
other interested parties, the Council shall determine whether the applicant has
made reasonable efforts to substantially comply with the statement of benefits
and whether any failure to substantially comply was caused by factors beyond
the control of the applicant. If the Council determines that the applicant has
not made reasonable efforts to comply with the statement of benefits, the
Council shall adopt a resolution terminating the applicant's deduction under
the authority of IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.9(c).
   (H)   An applicant that has received a deduction for real property or
personal property and:
      (1)   Ceases operations at the facility for which the deduction was
granted; and
      (2)   Is found to have intentionally provided false information
concerning plans to continue operations at the facility, may be required to
repay to the County Treasurer, under the authority of IC 6-1.1-12.1-12, those
property taxes that were deducted.
(Ord. 668, passed 6-1-22)
§ 151.18 WAIVERS OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Indiana State law IC 6-1.1-12.1-9.5 and IC 6-1.1-12.1-11.3, makes it
possible for an applicant to request that the designating body waive
noncompliance for the following:
      (1)   Failure to submit a statement of benefits prior to a public
hearing;
      (2)   Failure to designate an economic revitalization area (ERA) or
submit a statement of benefits prior to construction of a facility and/or
installation of equipment;
      (3)   Failure to make the necessary findings of fact as required in IC 6-
1.1-12.1-2, IC 6-1.1-12.1-3, IC 6-1.1-12.1-4.5 or IC 6-1.1-12.1-4.8 before
designating an area as an ERA or authorizing a deduction for new equipment;
      (4)   Failure to file a timely and complete deduction application as
required by IC 6-1.1-12.1-5, IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.3 and IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.4.
   (B)   Waivers of noncompliance should only be considered for those companies
in compliance with local and state governmental entities.
      (1)   Companies must verify that they are not delinquent on any taxes
owed (property, income or sales), their Compliance with statement of benefits
(CF-1) form(s) have been filed on time and are substantially compliant, and
there are no outstanding state or federal environmental issues.
      (2)   Staff will verify and affirm that companies have met all above
criteria.
   (C)   To begin the waiver process, the applicant must first contact economic
development division staff in the Allen County Department of Planning Services.
      (1)   If staff determines that a waiver is needed, a formal request from
the applicant should be made in writing explaining the circumstance(s).
      (2)   The applicant will also need to address the steps needed to correct
the problem and the actions the company will take to correct further problems
from occurring.
   (D)   The following procedures shall be followed:
      (1)   Waiver of noncompliance for failure to file timely application and
statement of benefits (SB-1) form(s).
         (a)   For personal property, waivers will only be considered on
equipment installed within one month prior to date application is received.
         (b)   For real property, waivers will only be considered on
applications where applicant has applied for an improvement location permit/
structural permit one month prior to date application is received.
         (c)   A fee of $500 will be required to offset the costs incurred.
      (2)   Waiver of noncompliance for failure to file timely deduction
paperwork.
         (a)   Personal property waivers will only be considered for failure to
file 103-ERA and 103-EL paperwork within the last 12 months or one year.
         (b)   Real property waivers will only be considered for failure to
file Form 322/RE within the last 12 months or one year.
         (c)   The Council may not grant waivers for applicants who have failed
to file deduction paperwork more than once during the deduction period.
         (d)   A fee of $500 will be required to offset the costs incurred.
      (3)   Waivers of noncompliance for clerical errors.
         (a)   Personal property waivers will only be considered on clerical
errors made by the applicant that affect the proper reporting of project
location, project or investment time frame, and cost of investment.
         (b)   Real property waivers will only be considered on clerical errors
made by the applicant that affect the proper reporting of project location,
project or investment time frame, and cost of investment.
         (c)   A fee of $500 will be required to offset the costs incurred.
(Ord. 668, passed 6-1-22)
§ 151.19 DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Council does hereby designate the Allen County Department of Planning
Services economic development division as the administrative agency for
processing applications for the designation of economic revitalization areas.
The economic development division, in conducting its responsibilities under
this delegation, may undertake the following actions:
   (A)   Keep abreast of changes in the state enabling legislation and
communicate changes to Council members;
   (B)   Develop and implement procedures to address changes in the state
enabling legislation;
   (C)   Maintain an appropriate application form that is consistent with state
law and Council procedures;
   (D)   Accept applications for designation and collect the required filing
fee to be submitted to the County Treasurer;
   (E)   Review said applications for completeness and provide Council with
supporting data necessary to properly consider such requests;
   (F)   Establish guidelines to evaluate applications in order to determine
the length of the abatement period;
   (G)   Prepare public review files required by IC 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c);
   (H)   Prepare and cause to be published legal notice of the Council's
consideration of said application as required in IC 6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c) and IC 5-
3-1;
   (I)   Prepare draft declaratory and confirmatory resolutions for the
Council's review and consideration;
   (J)   Keep permanent records of all properly filed applications and duly
designated economic revitalization areas;
   (K)   Act on behalf of the Council in corresponding with the applicant(s)
and other interested persons regarding the status of an application;
   (L)   Prepare and provide the Allen County Auditor with a final designation
packet which shall include information necessary for the review of applications
for deduction pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-5, IC 6-1.1-12.1-5.3, and IC 6-1.1-
12.1-5.4;
   (M)   Evaluate annual reports (CF-1 forms) submitted by applicants under §
115.17 of this subchapter and provide a report to the Council within 45 days
summarizing compliance of reporting companies;
   (N)   Provide clerical duties for the Tax Abatement Development Fund,
including invoicing and receiving of contributions to the fund.
(Ord. 668, passed 6-1-22)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ACCEPTANCES
   
II.   ANNEXATIONS
   
III.   DEDICATIONS
   
IV.   FRANCHISES
   
V.   STREET NAME DESIGNATIONS AND CHANGES
   
VI.   VACATIONS
   
VII.     REZONINGS
TABLE I. ACCEPTANCES
 
ORD. NO. DATE   DESCRIPTION
476      5-1-84 Accepting land from the Monroeville Community Park Association,
                Inc., to be used as the Monroeville Community Park.
               
 
TABLE II. ANNEXATIONS
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. DATE            DESCRIPTION
NO.
                     (1)   Annexing all that part of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter
433  - -             of Section 17, Township 29 north, Range 15 east, lying west of the Adams-
                     Schlemmer- Baker Ditch.
            (2)   Annexing the north 16 feet of Outlot No. 5, McDonalds Outlots.
434  - -             Annexing the north 150 feet of the east 147 feet of the south half of the
                     northwest quarter of Section 18, Township 29 north, Range 15 east.
435  - -             Annexing a tract of land commencing at the intersection of Forest St. and
                     McArdle Rd.
436  - -             Annexing a tract of land commencing at the southwest corner of Lot No. 11 in
                     the South Park Addition.
437  - -             (1)   Annexing a tract of land commencing at the southwest corner of Lot No. 1
                     in Dickenson’s Addition.
            (2)   Annexing approximately 1.93 acres located in the northeast quarter of
                     the northwest quarter of Section 18, Township 29 north, Range 15 east.
    11-22-66        Annexing approximately 3.76 acres in the northwest quarter of the southwest
                     quarter of Section 17, Township 29 north, Range 15 east.
450  - -66           Annexing the south 170 feet of the east 150 feet of the south half of the
                     northwest quarter of Section 18, Township 29 north, Range 15 east.
                     Annexing the west 40 feet of the east 190 feet of the south 170 feet of the
45l  l0-16-67        south half of the northwest quarter of Section 18, Township 29 north, Range 15
                     east.
475  5-1-74          Annexing Lot No. 1, Wass Partition, in the southeast quarter of the southeast
                     quarter of Section 18, Township 29 north, Range 15 east.
                     (1)   Annexing a tract of land commencing at a point due north of the
479  8-7-74          northwest corner of Lot No. 1, Wass Partition, in the southeast quarter of the
                     southeast quarter of Section 18, Township 29 north, Range 15 east.
            (2)   Annexing the north 75 feet of the west l20 feet of the south half of the
                     southwest quarter of Section 17, Township 29 north, Range 15 east.
505  4-21-82         (1)   Annexing all that part of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter
                     of Section 17, Township 29 north, Range 1l5 east.
            (2)   Annexing a strip of land commencing at a point in the north and south
                     centerline of Section 17, Township 29 north, Range 15 east.
539  11-4-87         Annexing certain territory commencing at the northeast corner of Lot No. 13,
                     Whittern’s Addition.
560  3-19-91         Annexing part of the southwest quarter of Section 18, Township 29 north, Range
                     15 east.
564  11-3-92         Annexing certain territory beginning at the northeast corner of Lot 13 in
                     Whittern’s Addition.
566  2-16-93         Annexing certain territory beginning at the northwest corner of Section 18,
                     Township 29 north, Range 15 east.
581  12-29-95        Annexing part of the west half of Section 17, Township 29 North, Range 15
                     East.
                    
 
TABLE III. DEDICATIONS
 
ORD. NO. DATE     DESCRIPTION
481      10-16-74 Laying out and establishing a street in the Monroeville
                  Community Park, to be designated Park Dr.
                 
 
TABLE IV. FRANCHISES
 
ORD. NO. DATE    DESCRIPTION
432      2-21-62 Granting the Indiana Fuel and Light Co., Inc., the right to
                 maintain, operate, and extend gas service in the town.
497      5-20-81 Granting a franchise to Citizens Cable South, Inc., for the
                 provision of Cable Television Service.
                
 
TABLE V. STREET NAME DESIGNATIONS AND CHANGES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. DATE DESCRIPTION
NO.
     4-   (1)   North St. east of Liberty Rd. and extending to the sewage utility plant
510  20-  renamed, Utility Dr.
     83
        (2)   Short St. between South St. and Webster St. renamed South Short St.
        (3)   Short St. between South St. and Depot St. renamed North Short St.
        (4)   Short St. between Mulberry St. and Summit St. renamed Dale Spieth Ave.
     12-  (1)   The unnamed street which is from the west side of Ohio Street to the east
603  16-  side of Main Street, and is adjacent to the south side of the railroad right-of-
     03   way and railroad tracks is named Meyer Drive.
          (2)   The first street north of the railroad tracks and railroad right-of-way
        and which extends from the west side of Ohio Street to the east side of Main
          Street shall be named Marquardt Drive.
          (3)   The unnamed street which is the first north- south street east of Highway
        101 and extends south from Monroeville Road along the east line of East Allen
          Industrial Park shall be named CME Drive.
         
 
    TABLE VI. VACATIONS
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. DATE DESCRIPTION
NO.
     10-  Vacating the alley lying between Lot 1 in Cassady’s Addition and Lot 37 in
513  19-  the original plat of the town.
     83
514  12-  Vacating the alley lying between Lots 13 and 14 in the Argos Addition.
     7-83
527  3-5- Vacating the portion of Depot St. contiguous to Lots 1 and 2 of Webster’s
     86   Addition.
532  5-6- Vacating a portion of an unimproved alley right-of-way between Lot 24 in
     87   Webster’s Addition and Lots 10 and 11 in McGovern’s Addition.
Res. 3-7- Vacating an alley commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 4 in Whittern’s
543  88   Addition.
Res. 5-2- Vacating an alley commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 3 in Whittern’s
544  88   Addition.
     11-  Vacating the alley lying between Lots 8 and 9 in the original plat of the
555  13-  town.
     90
573  4-5- Vacating the south 66 feet of the alley immediately east of Lot #7 in
     94   Mariotte Subdivision.
          Vacating a 12 by 132 foot section of an unimproved alley located on the south
596  4-3- side of the 300 block of Barnhart Street, approximately 300 feet west of its
     01   intersection with Lincoln Street, also located between lots 26 and 27 of
          Barnhart’s Addition.
     11-  Vacating a portion of the road right-of- way for Elm Street located in the
610  1-05 100 block of Elm Street, beginning at the western right-of-way for Summit
          Street and extending approximately 140 feet to the west.
627  12-  Vacating the 14-foot wide alley lying between Lot Number 13 and Lot Number 14
     8-10 in McGovern Addition to the Town of Monroeville.
629  6-1- Vacating a roadway beginning at the southeast corner of Lot Number 61 in
     11   Barnhart’s Second Addition, containing approximately 0.09 acres.
         
 
TABLE VII. REZONINGS
 
ORD. DATE DESCRIPTION
NO.
     4-   Rezoning Lots 6 and 11 in Whittern’s Addition to C-la (Professional and
546  20-  Personal Services).
     88
608  1-4- Rezoning the 2.307 acres of real estate referenced in Petition 1538/04 to
     05   RSP- 3/Planned Multiple Family Residential.
638  3-5- Recommending the rezoning of 18.83 acres of real estate referenced in
     14   Petition 2013-0054 to C-2(P) Planned Limited Commercial.
         
 
 PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
IC SECTION CODE SECTION
IC SECTION                      CODE SECTION
Trial Rule 6(A)                 10.05
1-1-1-8                         10.09
1-1-3.5                         10.04
1-1-4-1                         10.05
1-1-4-5                         10.04
5-1                             32.20(C)
5-1-11.5                        32.20
5-2-1-9                         31.61,
                                31.64(C)
                                30.22,
5-3-1                           151.15,
                                151.19
5-11-1-4(c)                     32.20
5-11-10-1.6                     32.23(C)
5-11-10-2                       32.23
6-1.1-12.1 et seq.              151.15
6-1.1-12.1-1(1)                 151.15
6-1.1-12.1-1(17)                151.15
6-1.1-12.1-2                    151.16,
                                151.18
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(c)               151.15,
                                151.19
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(d)               151.15
6-1.1-12.1-2.5(e)               151.15
6-1.1-12.1-3                    151.18
6-1.1-12.1-3(e)                 151.15
6-1.1-12.1-4.5                  151.18
6-1.1-12.1-4.8                  151.18
                                151.15,
6-1.1-12.1-5                    151.18,
                                151.19
6-1.1-12.1-5.1                  151.17
6-1.1-12.1-5.3                  151.18,
                                151.19
                                151.15,
6-1.1-12.1-5.4                  151.18,
                                151.19
6-1.1-12.1-5.6                  151.17
6-1.1-12.1-5.9                  151.17
6-1.1-12.1-5.9(c)               151.17
6-1.1-12.1-9.5                  151.18
6-1.1-12.1-11.3                 151.16,
                                151.18
6-1.1-12.1-12                   151.17
6-1.1-12.1-18(e)                151.15
6-1.1-17-1 through 6- 1.1-17-19 32.02,
                                32.03
6-1.1-17-3                      32.01(A)
6-1.1-20                        32.20(C)
6-7-1                           32.35(B)
6-7-1-31.1                      32.35(B)
14-16-1                         73.40
14-16-1-22                      73.40
14-16-2                         73.40
14-16-2-21(4)                   73.43
14-16-2-23                      73.40
22-9-1-4 et seq.                111.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.                111.01,
                                111.02
22-9.5-2-2                      111.02
22-9.5-2-3                      111.02
22-9.5-2-4                      111.02
22-9.5-2-8                      111.02
22-9.5-2-9                      111.02
22-9.5-2-11                     111.02
22-9.5-2-13                     111.02
22-9.5-3                        111.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.                111.10
22-9.5-4-8                      111.11
22-9.5-5                        111.02
22-9.5-5-1                      111.03
22-9.5-6                        111.02,
                                111.11
22-15-2-7                       150.01
33-53-3-1                       31.44
33-53-3-2                       31.44
36-5-1-10.1                     30.03
36-5-2-2                        30.01
36-5-2-3                        30.02
36-5-2-4.1                      30.03
36-5-2-8                        30.07
36-5-2-9                        30.08
36-5-2-9.2                      30.20
36-5-2-9.4                      30.21(A), (B)
36-5-2-9.6                      30.21(C)
36-5-2-9.8                      30.21(D)
36-5-2-10                       30.22
36-5-2-10.2                     30.23
36-5-2-11                       32.20
36-5-3-2                        31.01
36-5-3-3                        32.01
36-5-3-4                        32.02
36-5-3-5                        32.03
36-5-4-3                        32.22
36-5-4-4                        32.23(A), (B)
36-5-4-6                        32.23(C)
36-5-4-7                        31.02
36-5-4-10                       31.03
36-5-4-11                       31.04
36-5-6-2                        31.40
36-5-6-3                        31.41
36-5-6-4                        31.42
36-5-6-5                        31.43
36-5-6-6                        31.44
36-5-6-7                        31.45
36-5-6.5                        31.40
36-5-7-2                        31.60
36-5-7-3                        31.61
36-5-7-4                        31.62
36-5-7-5                        31.63
36-5-7-6                        31.64
36-6-6.5                        31.44
36-7-2-5                        93.03(D)
36-7                            30.22(C)
36-7-4                          151.01
36-7-4-410                      151.01
36-7-8-3                        150.01
36-7-8-7                        150.01
36-7-10.1-3                     93.09
Ch. 36-7-9                      150.20,
                                150.22
36-7-9-2                        150.20
36-7-9-14                       150.23
36-7-10.1-3                     93.09
36-7-12-1 et seq.               33.02,
                                33.03
36-7-14-1 et seq.               33.10
36-8-1-1 through 36-8- 2-13     31.61
36-8-1-1 through 36-8- 14-4     31.64(B)
36-8-2-4                        Ch. 92
36-8-2-6                        90.16
36-8-2-8                        93.03(E), (F)
36-9-2-5                        Ch. 94
36-9-2-7                        Ch. 94
36-9-30                         95.01
36-10-3                         97.10(A),(E)
                                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORD. NO. DATE CODE SECTION
ORD. NO. DATE      CODE SECTION
                   90.99,
                   91.01,
                   91.99,
                   92.06(B),
418      - -       92.99,
                   Ch. 130,
                   Ch. 131,
                   Ch. 132,
                   133.01 -
                   133.04
422      - -       130.99,
                   133.05
423      - -       90.16,
                   90.20
424      - -       91.02,
                   91.99
425      - -       94.99
432      2-21-62   T.S.O. IV
433      - -       T.S.O. II
434      - -       T.S.O. II
435      - -       T.S.O. II
436      - -       T.S.O. II
437      - -       T.S.O. II
                   50.40,
439      10-16-62  50.42 -
                   50.45,
                   50.49
                   50.01,
                   50.03 -
                   50.05,
440      10-16-62  50.10 -
                   50.31,
                   50.33,
                   50.98,
                   50.99
441      3-20-63   50.15
443      2-15-65   50.43
444      7-6-65    32.35
- -      11-22-66  T.S.O. II
450      - - 66    T.S.O. II
451      10-16-67  T.S.O. II
457      4-7-69    151.01 -
                   151.03
460      4-20-70   151.04
463      12-21-70  Ch. 95
465      5-17-71   51.15,
                   51.18
                   51.01 -
                   51.16,
466      5-17-71   51.18,
                   51.20,
                   51.21
469      - -       90.15 -
                   90.99
473      11-21-73  50.48
474      11-21-73  50.11
475      5-1-74    T.S.O. II
476      5-1-74    97.01,
                   T.S.O. I
479      8-7-74    T.S.O. II
480      10-16-74  97.02 -
                   97.99
481      10-16-74  T.S.O. III
488      - -76     51.15,
                   51.17
495      4-2-80    50.42,
                   50.43
497      5-20-81   T.S.O. I
                   50.40 -
501      2-17-82   50.47,
                   50.49
                   50.01 -
502      2-17-82   50.33,
                   50.98,
                   50.99
505      4-21-82   T.S.O. II
507      7-7-82    32.24
                   30.01 -
508      12-1-82   30.05,
                   30.07,
                   30.09
509      - -       Ch. 111
509      12-1-82   30.35 -
                   30.37
510      4-20-83   T.S.O. V
513      10-19-83  T.S.O. VI
514      12-7-83   T.S.O. VI
516      - -       90.99
520      12-19-84  50.45,
                   51.19
522      4-2-85    150.20 -
                   150.24
524      10-15-85  51.08
525      12-18-85  31.05
529      6-18-86   Adopting Ordinance
                   50.12,
                   50.40 -
531      2-4-87    50.42,
                   50.48,
                   51.16
532      5-6-87    T.S.O. VI
533      9-16-87   Adopting Ordinance
534      9-16-87   Ch. 70
539      11-4-87   T.S.O. II
                   91.10 -
541      - -       91.15,
                   91.99
542      2-17-88   150.01
Res. 543 3-7-88    T.S.O. VI
Res. 544 5-2-88    T.S.O. VI
546      4-20-88   T.S.O. VII
547      11-16-88  97.10
551      12-19-89  51.09
553      9- -90    151.04
554      10-16-90  50.11,
                   51.15
555      11-13-90  T.S.O. VI
                   51.15,
556      12-18-90  51.16,
                   51.18
559      2-5-91    51.15
560      3-19-91   T.S.O. II
                   51.30 -
561      4-16-91   51.35,
                   51.99
562      10-15-91  51.16
564      11-3-92   T.S.O. II
566      2-16-93   T.S.O. II
567      4-6-93    33.01 -
                   33.03
568      5-4-93    31.06
                   96.01 -
570      - -       96.08,
                   96.99
571      12-21-93  50.11
573      4-5-94    T.S.O. VI
574      8-16-94   97.10
577      6-6-95    30.35
579      12-5-95   33.10
581      12-29-95  T.S.O. II
                   111.01 -
582      3-19-96   111.08,
                   111.10,
                   111.11
588      7-7-98    94.06 
589      12-15-98  Adopting Ordinance
593      1-19-00   52.01 -
                   52.05
                   52.03,
594      2-1-00    52.04,
                   52.06
596      4-3-01    T.S.O. VI
598      3-5-02    51.15
599      6-4-02    51.15
603      12-16-03  T.S.O. V
604      2-3-04    Adopting Ordinance
608      1-4-05    T.S.O. VII
610      11-1-05   T.S.O. VI
613      11-7-06   50.11
                   130.06,
615      4-3-07    130.07,
                   130.99
616      4-3-07    50.01,
                   50.20
617      12-4-07   70.95
619      11-4-08   52.05
620      11-4-08   51.15
621      12-2-08   50.42 -
                   50.44
627      12-8-10   T.S.O. VI
629      6-1-11    T.S.O. VI
                   90.15,
630      7-13-11   90.22 -
                   90.24
631      7-7-11    90.05
636      11-5-13   50.26
638      3-5-14    T.S.O. VII
                   53.01 -
640      9-2-15    53.13,
                   53.99
642      6-1-16    32.25
643      6-1-16    94.07
644      11-2-16   52.05
645      11-2-16   130.08
648      1-3-18    70.61
649      10-3-18   97.11
650      10-3-18   30.35,
                   30.36
653      5-23-19   52.05
655      2-12-20   51.15
657      6-3-20    70.95
658      8-5-20    51.22
659      8-5-20    70.35
                   70.81,
660      10-7-20   90.99,
                   91.99
662      - -21     130.09
663      - -21     111.01 -
                   111.12
665      8-4-21    97.09,
                   97.99
668      6-1-22  151.15 -
                   151.19
                   73.01 -
                   73.12,
                   73.40 -
                   73.44,
                   73.99,
                   75.01 -
670      6-7-23    75.04,
                   75.99,
                   93.01 -
                   93.09,
                   93.99,
                   98.01 -
                   98.04,
                   98.99
                  
 
